VILLAGE OF BELLVILLE, OHIO
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2022 S-11 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 40-2021, passed 11-2-2021
State legislation current through June 30, 2021
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
VILLAGE OFFICIALS
OF
BELLVILLE, OHIO
VILLAGE COUNCIL
MAYOR                 Teri Brenkus
                      
MEMBER                Victor Swisher
MEMBER                Jason Guilliams
MEMBER                Josh Epperson
MEMBER                Stephen Edwards
MEMBER                Jason Potes
MEMBER                J.J. Burkhart
                      
FISCAL OFFICER        Brigette Gatton
VILLAGE SOLICITOR     Sarah Mussman
VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR Larry Weirich
                      
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
Ordinance No. 2012-25
   Passed June 19, 2012
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE VILLAGE OF BELLVILLE,
OHIO, REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING
GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED
IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the Village are
inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form and substance
for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety and general
welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of its affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Ohio empower and
authorize the Village to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile any
existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or published
and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, Council has authorized a general compilation, revision and
codification of the ordinances of the Village of a general and permanent nature
and publication of such ordinances in book form; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY COUNCIL OF THE VILLAGE OF BELLVILLE, STATE
OF OHIO:
   SECTION 1. The general ordinances of the Village of Bellville, Ohio, as
revised, amended, restated, codified, and complied in book form are hereby
adopted as and shall constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the Village of
Bellville, Ohio”.
   SECTION 2. Such Code of Ordinance as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles: Attached hereto as EXHIBIT A.
   SECTION 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part of such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
   SECTION 4. Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by Council, and the Fiscal Officer is hereby authorized and
ordered to file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
   SECTION 5. Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in
Section 6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places
of the ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations
therein contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly
signed, attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and
notices thereof as required by law have been given.
   SECTION 6. That it is hereby determined that this Ordinance is an emergency
measure necessary for the preservation of the public peace, health, safety and
welfare of the residents of the Village and for the further reason that there
is an immediate need to provide for uniform compilation, codification and
application of Village ordinances and resolutions, and shall therefore go into
immediate effect provided it receives a two-thirds (2/3) vote of all members
elected to this Council, otherwise it shall go into effect in thirty (30) days
if passed by a majority vote of Council.
Passed: 6-0
                                             /s/ Darrell E. Banks
                                             DARRELL E. BANKS, MAYOR
ATTEST:
/s/ Brigette R. Banks
Brigette R. Banks, Village Fiscal Officer
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
/s/ Jon K. Burton
Jon K. Burton, Village Solicitor
   EXHIBIT A
   Titles to Code of Ordinances of the Village of Bellville, Ohio
      TITLE I:   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      TITLE III:   ADMINISTRATION
      TITLE V:   PUBLIC WORKS
      TITLE VII:   TRAFFIC CODE
      TITLE IX:   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      TITLE XI:   BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      TITLE XIII:   GENERAL OFFENSES
      TITLE XV:   LAND USAGE
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.05   Construction of section references
   
10.06   Conflicting provisions
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Ordinances repealed
   
10.11   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.12   Ordinances saved
   
10.13   Application to future ordinances
   
10.14   Interpretation
   
10.15   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.16   Statutory references
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
   
10.18   Determination of legislative intent
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the municipality,
as revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“municipal code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified
ordinances,” or “code” may be substituted. Title, chapter, and section headings
do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
(R.C. § 1.01)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to those
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AND/OR. The word AND may be read as “or,” and the word OR may be read as
“and,” if the sense requires it.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   CERTIFIED MAIL. Includes registered mail.
   CHILD. Includes child by adoption.
   COUNCIL. The Legislative Authority of the Village of Bellville.
   COUNTY. Richland County, Ohio.
   FIRE CHIEF. Shall include the Chief of the Fire Department if a Fire
Department has been established in the municipality, and shall include the Fire
Prevention Officer if no Fire Department has been established in the
municipality.
   IMPRISONED. Shall have the same meaning as in R.C. § 1.05.
   INTERNET. The international computer network of both federal and non-federal
interoperable packet switched data networks, including the graphical subnetwork
known as the World Wide Web.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of incorporeal nature.
   LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY. The Legislative Authority of the Village of
Bellville.
   MAY. The action referred to is permissive.
   MUNICIPALITY, CITY, TOWN, VILLAGE, or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. When used in
this code, shall denote the village irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   O.A.C. Refers to the Ohio Administrative Code.
   OATH. Includes affirmation.
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner, or
tenant in common of the whole or part of the property.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership, and association.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real property.
   PLAN OF SEWERAGE, SYSTEM OF SEWERAGE, SEWER, and SEWERS. Includes sewers,
sewage disposal works and treatment plants, and sewage pumping stations,
together with facilities and appurtenances necessary and proper therefor.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers, or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   R.C. Refers to the Ohio Revised Code.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail.
   SHALL. The action referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Ohio.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the municipality.
   SWEAR. Includes affirm.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents, and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITING. Includes printing.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. The terms include any representation of words,
letters, symbols, or figures; this provision does not affect any law relating
to signatures.
   YEAR. Twelve consecutive months.
(R.C. §§ 1.02, 1.05, 1.44, 1.59, 701.01)
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Common and technical usage. Words and phrases shall be read in context
and construed according to the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and
phrases that have acquired a technical or particular meaning, whether by
legislative definition or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
(R.C. § 1.42)
   (B)   Singular and plural; gender; tenses. As used in this code, unless the
context otherwise requires:
      (1)   The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the
singular;
      (2)   Words of one gender include the other genders; and
      (3)   Words in the present tense include the future tense.
(R.C. § 1.43)
   (C)   Calendar; computation of time.
      (1)   The time within which an act is required by law to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day; except that when
the last day falls on Sunday or a legal holiday, then the act may be done on
the next succeeding day that is not a Sunday or a legal holiday.
      (2)   When a public office, in which an act required by law is to be
performed, is closed to the public for the entire day that constitutes the last
day for doing the act or before its usual closing time on that day, the act may
be performed on the next succeeding day that is not a Sunday or a legal
holiday.
      (3)   As used in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) of this section, LEGAL
HOLIDAY means the following days:
         (a)   The first day of January, known as New Year’s Day;
         (b)   The third Monday in January, known as Martin Luther King, Jr.
Day;
         (c)   The third Monday in February, known as Washington-Lincoln Day;
         (d)   The day designated in the “Act of June 28, 1968,” 82 Stat. 250,
5 U.S.C. § 6103, as amended, for the commemoration of Memorial Day;
         (e)   The nineteenth day of June, known as Juneteenth day;
         (f)   The fourth day of July, known as Independence Day;
         (g)   The first Monday in September, known as Labor Day;
         (h)   The second Monday in October, known as Columbus Day;
         (i)   The eleventh day of November, known as Veteran’s Day;
         (j)   The fourth Thursday in November, known as Thanksgiving Day;
         (k)   The twenty-fifth day of December, known as Christmas Day; and
         (l)   Any day appointed and recommended by the Governor of this state
or the President of the United States as a holiday.
      (4)   If any day designated in this section as a legal holiday falls on a
Sunday, the next succeeding day is a legal holiday.
(R.C. § 1.14)
      (5)   When an act is to take effect or become operative from and after a
day named, no part of that day shall be included. If priority of legal rights
depends upon the order of events on the same day, the priority shall be
determined by the times in the day at which they respectively occurred.
(R.C. § 1.15)
      (6)   If a number of months is to be computed by counting the months from
a particular day, the period ends on the same numerical day in the concluding
month as the day of the month from which the computation is begun, unless there
are not that many days in the concluding month, in which case the period ends
on the last day of that month.
(R.C. § 1.45)
      (7)   In all cases where the law shall require any act to be done in a
reasonable time or reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR NOTICE
shall mean such time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the
duty or compliance with the notice.
   (D)   Numbers. If there is a conflict between figures and words in
expressing a number, the words govern.
(R.C. § 1.46)
   (E)   Authority. When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as
well be done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be
construed to include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (F)   Joint authority. All words purporting to give joint authority to three
or more municipal officers or other persons shall be construed as giving the
authority to a majority of the officers or other persons, unless it shall be
otherwise expressly declared in the law giving the authority, or it is
inconsistent with state law or municipal charter provisions.
   (G)   Exceptions. The rules of construction shall not apply to any law which
contains any express provision excluding that construction, or when the subject
matter or context of the law is repugnant thereto.
§ 10.04 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing statute does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
(R.C. § 1.57)
   (B)   The re-enactment, amendment, or repeal of an ordinance does not,
except as provided in division (C) of this section:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation, or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded, or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding, or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment; and the
investigation, proceeding, or remedy may be instituted, continued, or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment for any offense is reduced
by a re-enactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture, or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
(R.C. § 1.58)
   (D)   An ordinance which is re-enacted or amended is intended to be a
continuation of the prior ordinance and not a new enactment, so far as it is
the same as the prior ordinance.
(R.C. § 1.54)
§ 10.05 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, or of divisions or subdivisions of a
section, the reference shall be construed to mean a violation of any provision
of the section, sections, divisions, or subdivisions included in the reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
(R.C. § 1.23)
   (C)   A reference to any portion of a provision of this code applies to all
re-enactments or amendments thereof.
(R.C. § 1.55)
   (D)   If a section refers to a series of numbers or letters, the first and
the last numbers or letters are included.
(R.C. § 1.56)
   (E)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter has been
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.06 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   If a general provision conflicts with a special or local provision,
they shall be construed, if possible, so that effect is given to both. If the
conflict between the provisions is irreconcilable, the special or local
provision prevails as an exception to the general provision, unless the general
provision is the later adoption and the manifest intent is that the general
provision prevail.
(R.C. § 1.51)
   (B)   (1)   If ordinances enacted at different meetings of the Legislative
Authority are irreconcilable, the ordinance latest in date of enactment
prevails.
      (2)   If amendments to the same ordinance are enacted at different
meetings of the Legislative Authority, one amendment without reference to
another, the amendments are to be harmonized, if possible, so that effect may
be given to each. If the amendments are substantively irreconcilable, the
latest in date of enactment prevails. The fact that a later amendment restates
language deleted by an earlier amendment, or fails to include language inserted
by an earlier amendment, does not of itself make the amendments irreconcilable.
Amendments are irreconcilable only when changes made by each cannot reasonably
be put into simultaneous operation.
(R.C. § 1.52)
   (C)   In the event of a conflict between any of the provisions of this code,
or between any of the provisions of this code and any standard code adopted by
the municipality pursuant to R.C. § 731.231, the provision that establishes the
higher or stricter standard shall control.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of this code or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions or applications of the section or related sections which can
be given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end
the provisions are severable.
(R.C. § 1.50)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the municipality exercising the powers, duties,
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any words necessary to express the intention of the
provisions affected, the use of words to which no meaning can be attached, or
the use of a word when another word was clearly intended to express the
intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and the words supplied, omitted, or
substituted shall conform with the manifest intention, and the provision shall
have the same effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as
originally published. No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question
exists regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   With the exception of any ordinances specifically saved by the municipality,
this code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
and all ordinances specifically saved by the municipality shall remain in full
force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
legislative body, or a certain municipal officer or employee, to make
additional ordinances or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the
intention of the ordinance, all ordinances and regulations of a similar nature
serving the purpose, effected prior to the codification and not inconsistent
thereto, shall remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.13 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.14 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.15 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to the adoption of this code may be numbered in
accordance with the numbering system of this code and need not be inserted in
this code, but shall be treated as if printed for inclusion herein.
   (B)   The following language may be used by the municipality to amend, add,
or repeal a chapter, section, or division:
      (1)   To amend a section: “Section                 of the Municipal Code
of Ordinances is amended to read as follows: [. . .].”
      (2)   To add a section: “Section                 of the Municipal Code of
Ordinances, which is to be added to and amends the Municipal Code of
Ordinances, reads as follows: [. . .].”
      (3)   To repeal a section: “Section                 of the Municipal Code
of Ordinances, which reads as follows, is repealed: [. . .].”
§ 10.16 STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, located in parentheses
immediately following a division or section of this code, this indicates that
the text of the division or section is substantially equivalent to the
statutory provision.
Example:
(R.C. § 4511.02)
   (B)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following
the text of a section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information.
Example:
   § 30.08 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      Unless otherwise exempted by state law, all public records shall be
promptly prepared and made available for inspection to any person.
   Statutory reference:
      Public records, see R.C. § 149.43
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.18 DETERMINATION OF LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   (A)   In enacting an ordinance, it is presumed that:
      (1)   Compliance with the Constitutions of this state and of the United
States is intended;
      (2)   The entire ordinance is intended to be effective;
      (3)   A just and reasonable result is intended; and
      (4)   A result feasible of execution is intended.
(R.C. § 1.47)
   (B)   An ordinance is presumed to be prospective in its operation unless
expressly made retrospective.
(R.C. § 1.48)
   (C)   If an ordinance is ambiguous, the court, in determining the intention
of the Legislative Authority, may consider among other matters:
      (1)   The object sought to be attained;
      (2)   The circumstances under which the ordinance was enacted;
      (3)   The legislative history;
      (4)   The common law or former legislative provisions, including laws
upon the same or similar subjects;
      (5)   The consequences of a particular construction; and
      (6)   The administrative construction of the ordinance.
(R.C. § 1.49)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever, in this municipal code or in any ordinance of the
municipality, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an
offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever the doing of any act is required or the
failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is
otherwise provided, whoever violates that provision shall be punished by a fine
not exceeding $500, a term of imprisonment not exceeding 60 days, or both. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation continues or occurs.
   (B)   The failure of any officer or employee of the municipality to perform
any official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or
employee to the penalty imposed for a violation unless a penalty is
specifically provided for the failure.
Cross-reference:
Misdemeanor classifications, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
Ordinance violations and penalties, see R.C. § 715.67
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   COUNCIL
      
31.   VILLAGE EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS
      
32.   VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
34.   PURCHASING
      
35.   TAXATION, FUNDS, AND FINANCES
      
36.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
37.   IDENTITY THEFT POLICY
      
38.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
39.   INCOME TAX REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 30: COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Regular Council meetings
   
30.02   No smoking in Council chamber while Council is in session
   
30.03   Compensation
Rules of Council
   
30.15   President pro tempore; duties
   
30.16   Committee meetings
   
30.17   Meetings open to the public
   
30.18   Quorum
   
30.19   Removal of Council members
   
30.20   Clerk of Council
   
30.21   Minutes
   
30.22   Legislation
   
30.23   Special meetings
   
30.24   Notification of meetings
   
30.25   Order of meetings; agenda
   
30.26   Decorum
   
30.27   Questions; votes
   
30.28   Recognition of Council member to speak; time limits
   
30.29   Motions
   
30.30   Votes
   
30.31   Robert’s Rules
   
30.32   Public hearings
   
30.33   Executive session
   
30.34   Invalid actions
   
30.35   Amendment of rules
   
30.36   Effective date
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 REGULAR COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Commencing January 18, 2011, regular Council meetings shall be held on
the first and third Tuesdays of each month, commencing at 6:30 p.m.
   (B)   The Fiscal Officer shall post the new schedule of public meetings in
the Village Hall, 142 Park Place, Bellville, Ohio.
(Motion 2011-104, passed 1-3-2011)
§ 30.02 NO SMOKING IN COUNCIL CHAMBER WHILE COUNCIL IS IN SESSION.
   (A)   No one shall smoke tobacco in any form within the village Council
Chamber while the Council is in session.
   (B)   Appropriate “NO SMOKING” signs shall be posted to inform all affected
parties of the smoking restriction.
   (C)   The Mayor shall appoint a monitor whose duty it will be to place
appropriate signs at appropriate times and who shall enforce the smoking
restriction.
(Res. 13-77, passed 4-5-1977)
§ 30.03 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   For terms beginning prior to December 31, 2015: Members of Council
shall be compensated monthly in the amount of $158.33 per month for the
calendar months of January, February, April, May, July, August, October, and
November, and in the amount of $158.34 per month in the calendar months of
March, June, September, and December.
   (B)   For terms beginning January 1, 2016 and thereafter: Members of Council
shall be compensated monthly in the amount of $125 per month.
(Ord. 2013-47, passed 12-17-2013; Ord. 12-2015, passed 4-21-2015; Ord. 20-2015,
passed 7-7-2015)
RULES OF COUNCIL
§ 30.15 PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE; DUTIES.
   (A)   At the first Council meeting of the year, Council will elect by secret
ballot a President pro tempore of Council who will also serve as acting Mayor
in the absence of the Mayor or in the case of his or her disability.
   (B)   The President pro tempore of Council shall consult with other members
of Council to establish the regular meeting schedule of Village Council for the
coming year. That schedule will be published to the media and publicly posted
as the regular schedule for Council meetings, except for meetings that need to
be rescheduled due to national holidays, major local civic events, or for other
reasons.
   (C)   The President pro tempore of Council shall appoint a Chairperson and
other members of each Council standing committee which shall include: Finance
and Human Resources Committee; Community and Intergovernmental Relations,
Annexation and Economic Development Committee; Parks, Buildings, and Grounds
Committee; Public Utilities Committee; Safety Committee; and Streets,
Sidewalks, and Storm Drainage Committee. Each member of Council shall chair one
standing committee and shall serve as a member on two others.
   (D)   The Mayor or the President pro tempore of Council may, after approval
of a majority vote of Council, appoint a Chairperson and members to any other
special committee or advisory committee created for some special purpose, and
that committee will exist only until the work related to that purpose is
accomplished.
(Res. 08-45, passed 12-29-2008)
§ 30.16 COMMITTEE MEETINGS.
   Committee meetings will be called by the Chairperson of each committee, or
may be called at the request of the Mayor or President pro tempore of Council.
Notice of the date and location of the meeting shall be provided to all
committee members and the media at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting.
Minutes of the meeting shall be recorded by the Fiscal Officer, or by a
committee member assigned that task by the Chairperson. The minutes shall not
be considered to be official public records until the minutes are accepted by
the Chairperson at the next regular Council meeting.
(Res. 08-45, passed 12-29-2008)
§ 30.17 MEETINGS OPEN TO THE PUBLIC.
   All meetings, including committee meetings and workshops, but excluding
executive sessions, will be open to the public. Members of the public may
listen to all discussions but may not speak or provide input without permission
from the Chairperson of the meeting. Council may provide feedback to residents
at that meeting or may elect to provide a later response. The village will
comply with the Sunshine Laws of this state, being R.C. §§ 149.43 et seq., and
any other applicable laws relating to open meetings and open public records.
(Res. 08-45, passed 12-29-2008)
§ 30.18 QUORUM.
   At least four members of Council shall be present to constitute a quorum. No
official Council business may be transacted without a quorum present. A quorum
of four members, if unanimous, may constitute the two-thirds of Council members
required to adopt emergency legislation.
(Res. 08-45, passed 12-29-2008; Ord. 33-2014, passed 10-7-2014)
§ 30.19 REMOVAL OF COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   Council members may be removed from Council for unexcused absences that have
continued for two months by a vote of five members. Council members’ absences
may be excused for out-of-town business, personal or family illness, or other
family emergencies. A vote of at least five members of Council is needed to
expel a member of Council for just cause, for disorderly conduct, or violation
of its rules, provided the member has been notified of the charge against him
or her and has had the opportunity to be heard.
(Res. 08-45, passed 12-29-2008)
§ 30.20 CLERK OF COUNCIL.
   The Village Fiscal Officer or his or her designated representative shall be
the Clerk of Village Council, whose duties would be to prepare and distribute
the Council agenda, prepare the minutes of all Council and committee meetings,
handle all correspondence, and provide certified village documents as needed,
and handle notifications of Council and the media for all special meetings.
(Res. 08-45, passed 12-29-2008)
§ 30.21 MINUTES.
   The minutes of all regular and special Council meetings, Council committee
meetings, and village boards and commissions shall be recorded and kept by the
Fiscal Officer, and all these minutes and other public records shall be open to
the public in conformance with the state public records laws and the rules of
the Records Commission of the village. The minutes serve as records of action
and not as actions in themselves. Minutes are not intended to be legal
transcriptions of a public meeting but need to provide a full and accurate
record of official proceedings including sufficient facts and information to
permit the public to understand and appreciate the rationale behind the
official decision. Minutes do not become official public records until they are
approved by Village Council at the next subsequent meeting.
(Res. 08-45, passed 12-29-2008)
§ 30.22 LEGISLATION.
   All legislation shall be sponsored by a member of Council; the sponsor shall
be the member of Council who moves for the adoption of legislation as reflected
in the minutes of meetings. All legislation except emergency legislation, once
under consideration by Council, may be referred by a majority of members of
Council present to the appropriate Council committee for study and a
recommendation before a vote to adopt is taken. Such referral shall be
reflected on the minutes of the meeting as a vote to refer to the appropriate
committee; at a subsequent meeting, a new motion for adoption shall be required
prior to a vote on the legislation, even if unchanged. All legislation shall be
prepared or reviewed by the Village Solicitor to make sure it is in proper
legal form and does not conflict with any federal, state, or local law.
(Res. 08-45, passed 12-29-2008; Ord. 35-2014, passed 10-7-2014)
§ 30.23 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of Council may be arranged by the Fiscal Officer, at the
request of the Mayor, by the President pro tempore of Council and at least one
other Council person, or by at least three members of Council. Members of
Council and the media must be given written notice specifying the purpose of
the meeting, by regular mail, email, or personal service, at least 24 hours in
advance. In the event of an emergency requiring immediate official action, the
news media may be notified of the time and purpose of the meeting as soon as
possible, and Council will be asked to waive the 24-hour meeting notice
requirement.
(Res. 08-45, passed 12-29-2008)
§ 30.24 NOTIFICATION OF MEETINGS.
   Any person, organization, or member of the media who wishes to be notified
of any special Council meetings or any Council committee meeting may supply the
Fiscal Officer with stamped, self-addressed post cards or shall provide an
email address where the notices shall be posted. Persons should be specific
regarding which meetings they have an interest in, and for which notices should
be sent.
(Res. 08-45, passed 12-29-2008)
§ 30.25 ORDER OF MEETINGS; AGENDA.
   (A)   The Mayor shall take the chair at the hour appointed for Council
meetings to commence and shall call the meeting to order. The roll call shall
be the first item on the agenda, and the Fiscal Officer shall call the roll and
enter the names of those present into the minutes. Motions to excuse absent
members of Council may be made at this time.
   (B)   In the absence of a quorum, the members may, by a majority vote, take
a recess and direct the Fiscal Officer to attempt to procure the attendance of
absent members.
   (C)   In the absence of the Mayor, the President pro tempore of Council
shall call the meeting to order and assume the chair. In the absence of both
the Mayor and President pro tempore of Council, the Fiscal Officer may call the
meeting to order and call the roll. If a quorum is present, Council may proceed
and select, by a majority vote, one of its members to act as temporary
Chairperson for that meeting only.
   (D)   The Mayor may call his or her successor to preside at the meeting
during his or her temporary absence, but the substitution shall not extend
beyond adjournment.
   (E)   The official Council agenda shall include copies of all legislation to
be considered by Council that evening along with any other written reports or
other documents requiring official Council action. The order of Council
business shall be as follows:
      (1)   Invocation and Pledge of Allegiance;
      (2)   Roll call (to determine quorum);
      (3)   Excuse absent Council members;
      (4)   Establish time for adjournment;
      (5)   Approval of minutes of previous meeting(s). If minutes were mailed
24 hours before meeting, minutes may not need to be read, except if there is a
motion for Fiscal Officer to read minutes approved by a majority vote of those
present;
      (6)   Communications from village residents;
      (7)   Reports from administrative staff:
         (a)   Mayor;
         (b)   Village Administrator;
         (c)   Finance Director;
         (d)   Village Engineer; and
         (e)   Village Solicitor.
      (8)   Reports from standing committees and approval of committee minutes;
      (9)   Pending legislation;
      (10)   Old business;
      (11)   New business; and
      (12)   Motion to adjourn.
(Res. 08-45, passed 12-29-2008)
§ 30.26 DECORUM.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be responsible for preserving decorum and order, and
shall decide all questions of order subject to appeal. In the event of an
appeal regarding a ruling from the Mayor, the question shall be: “shall the
decision of the Mayor stand as the decision of Council?” In the event that a
member of Council transgresses these rules of Council, the Mayor shall call him
or her to order and explain the nature of his or her transgression, after which
that person shall relinquish the floor.
   (B)   No member of Council shall be permitted to indulge in personal
attacks, use language that is vulgar or otherwise offensive, arraign the
motives or agenda of another member, charge deliberate misrepresentation of an
issue, or hold a member up to public ridicule or contempt.
(Res. 08-45, passed 12-29-2008)
§ 30.27 QUESTIONS; VOTES.
   (A)   All questions before Council shall be clearly stated by the Mayor.
   (B)   All votes shall be by roll call vote, and the results shall be
recorded by the Fiscal Officer, who shall then advise the Mayor of the total
votes for and against the question and whether the question received sufficient
votes to pass.
(Res. 08-45, passed 12-29-2008)
§ 30.28 RECOGNITION OF COUNCIL MEMBER TO SPEAK; TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   Council members wishing to speak to an issue or to make a motion or
call for a question shall address the Mayor and request to be recognized. Once
given the floor, members shall confine their conversations to the issue under
discussion or to the question under debate, and avoid any personal attacks.
   (B)   No member of Council shall be allowed to speak for more than five
minutes on any given subject or question until every member of Council has been
given the opportunity to speak, and not more than twice on the same subject or
issue without the permission of the Council as expressed by a majority vote of
its members present.
(Res. 08-45, passed 12-29-2008)
§ 30.29 MOTIONS.
   (A)   When a question is before Council for discussion, no motion shall be
proper except for the following:
      (1)   Motion to refer to a standing committee;
      (2)   Motion to amend the motion under discussion;
      (3)   Motion to adopt legislation under consideration;
      (4)   Motion to table until a stated future time;
      (5)   Request that discussion end and call for a vote;
      (6)   To postpone action on the issue indefinitely; and
      (7)   Motion to adjourn.
   (B)   A motion requesting that discussion end and calling for a vote will
not be considered until all members have had an opportunity to speak to the
issue at least once. Once this has been accomplished, the Mayor will call the
vote on the motion to end discussion and bring the issue up for a vote.
   (C)   A motion to amend is subject to only one additional amendment. A
motion to amend, once defeated, may not be moved again in the same form.
   (D)   A motion to remove any issue or legislation from the table, or to
return any issue or legislation from committee may be offered at any succeeding
meeting. The motion shall go to a vote without discussion except for a brief
explanation by the member making the motion.
   (E)   A motion to adjourn may not be made while a member is speaking, or
when a previous question has been called for a vote.
   (F)   All motions shall require a second before they are brought to a vote.
(Res. 08-45, passed 12-29-2008)
§ 30.30 VOTES.
   Votes on any question or motion before Council shall be called by the Mayor
or the Clerk of Council at the request of the Mayor, starting with the Council
member who made the motion, next the Council member who seconded the motion,
then in a random rotation for the other members present. Members shall respond
in a clear voice with a Yea or Yes, or Nay or No. If any member abstains from
voting, his or her vote shall be recorded as a non-vote.
(Res. 08-45, passed 12-29-2008; Ord. 34-2014, passed 10-7-2014)
§ 30.31 ROBERT’S RULES.
   In the absence of any rule upon a particular issue, Council will follow the
procedures specified in the most recent available edition of Robert’s Rules of
Order. Robert’s Rules of Order shall also be complied with in the conduct of
all Council committee meetings and meetings of village boards and commissions.
(Res. 08-45, passed 12-29-2008)
§ 30.32 PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   Public hearing may be held by Village Council in conformance with
other regulations of the village and the Ohio Revised Code such as zoning,
budget meetings, and the like.
   (B)   The Mayor shall preside over these hearings and generally follow the
rules set forth herein.
      (1)   The purpose of a public hearing is to solicit comment on both sides
of an issue, and the Mayor shall attempt to provide equal time for citizens on
either side to be heard. Courtesy shall be extended to all speakers, and unruly
outbursts or interruptions will not be tolerated.
      (2)   Speakers must limit their comments to the issue before Council. No
more than five minutes will be allocated to any individual speaker until all
who wish to speak have been heard at least once.
      (3)   All questions regarding a particular issue shall be directed to the
Mayor. The Mayor may respond directly, or may redirect the question to a more
appropriate member of the Administration or Council. Council may choose to
respond during the hearing, or it may elect to respond at a later time after
researching the issue and forming its response.
      (4)   The Mayor shall not allow vulgar or profane language, personal
attacks on other residents, members of Council, or the Administration. Unruly
persons may be ejected from the meeting by the police if necessary.
(Res. 08-45, passed 12-29-2008)
§ 30.33 EXECUTIVE SESSION.
   An executive session may only be held after a majority vote of a quorum of
Council determines by a roll call vote that such a session is necessary for the
discussion of any of the following matters. In all these matters, R.C. § 121.22
shall be the final authority:
   (A)   To consider the appointment, employment, dismissal, discipline,
demotion, promotion, or compensation of a public employee or other public
official, or the investigation of charges or complaints against a public
employee or official, unless the public employee or official is entitled to and
requests a public hearing. Except as otherwise provided by law, Council may not
hold an executive session for the discipline of an elected official for conduct
related to the performance of his or her official duties or for removal from
office;
   (B)   To consider the purchase of property for public purposes, or for the
sale of public property at competitive bidding, if premature disclosure of
information would give an unfair advantage to a person whose private interest
is adverse to the general public interest. If the minutes of Council show that
all meetings and deliberations have been conducted in compliance with this
provision, any instrument executed by Council purporting to convey, lease, or
otherwise dispose of any right, title, or interest in public property shall be
exclusively presumed to have been executed in compliance with this provision
insofar as title or other interest of any bona fide purchasers, lessees, or
transferees of the property is concerned;
   (C)   Conferences with the Village Solicitor or other attorney concerning
legal disputes with the village that are the subject of pending or potential
court action;
   (D   Preparing for, or conducting, or reviewing negotiations or bargaining
sessions with public employees concerning their compensation, benefits, or
other terms and conditions of their employment;
   (E)   Matters that are required to be kept confidential by federal or state
rules or statutes; and
   (F)   Details of security arrangements where disclosure may reveal
information that could be used for the purpose of committing or avoiding
prosecution for a violation of the law.
(Res. 08-45, passed 12-29-2008)
§ 30.34 INVALID ACTIONS.
   A resolution, ordinance, or rule adopted, or formal action of any kind is
invalid unless adopted in an open meeting of Council, in an open committee
meeting or open meeting of a board or commission. A resolution, ordinance,
rule, or other formal action adopted in an open meeting that results from
deliberations in a meeting not open to the public is invalid unless the
deliberations were for one of the specific topics allowed to be discussed in an
executive session.
(Res. 08-45, passed 12-29-2008)
§ 30.35 AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   These Rules may be amended, rescinded, or supplemented by an ordinance
submitted and approved at any regular meeting of Village Council by a vote of
at least four members of Council.
(Res. 08-45, passed 12-29-2008)
§ 30.36 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The Rules codified in this subchapter are effective January 1, 2009.
(Res. 08-45, passed 12-29-2008)
CHAPTER 31: VILLAGE EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS
Section
Officials
   
31.01   Village Administrator
   
31.02   Village Solicitor
   
31.03   Village Engineer
   
31.04   Village Fiscal Officer
   
31.05   Chief of Police
   
31.06   Clerk of Council
   
31.07   Income Tax Administrator
   
31.08   Mayor
Employees
   
31.20   Full-time police officer
OFFICIALS
§ 31.01 VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The position of Village Administrator is hereby established.
   (B)   The Village Administrator shall have the powers provided by R.C. §
735.273.
   (C)   The Village Administrator shall be paid a fixed salary, as determined
by Council, and, due to the duties of the position, shall be exempt from
overtime pay under the Federal air Labor Standards Act.
   (D)   Unless otherwise specified in the appointment contract, the Village
Administrator shall be an elector of the village. The Village Administrator
shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor and Council.
   (E)   The Village Administrator is authorized to prepare job descriptions
for village employees under his or her supervision.
(Ord. 12-96, passed 3-16-1996; Res. 21-98, passed 11-16-1998; Ord. 2010-100,
passed 12-29-2010; Ord. 28-2015, passed 9-1-2015; Ord. 30-2016, passed 12-6-
2016; Ord. 36-2021, passed 10-19-2021)
§ 31.02 VILLAGE SOLICITOR.
   (A)   The duties of the Solicitor are to attend all regular meetings of
Council; provide legal assistance and advice to all elected members of Council;
provide legal assistance and advice to all elected members of the village and
department heads; draft legislation when requested by the Mayor or any member
of Council; and advise the Mayor in judicial matters relating to the Mayor’s
Court and Municipal Court, when requested by the Mayor.
   (B)   Compensation shall be in an amount to be determined by Council from
time to time, payable monthly.
(Res. 2010-101, passed 12-29-2010)
§ 31.03 VILLAGE ENGINEER.
   The village contracts for engineering services on a yearly basis.
(Res. 2011-125, passed 5-17-2011)
§ 31.04 VILLAGE FISCAL OFFICER.
   (A)   The combined duties of Village Clerk and Village Treasurer held in the
combined elected position of Village Clerk-Treasurer are combined into the
appointed office of Village Fiscal Officer pursuant to R.C. § 733.262.
   (B)   The Village Administrator, is hereby designated the Prevailing Wage
Coordinator for the village. In the absence of the Village Administrator, the
Fiscal Officer is designated the prevailing Wage Coordinator for the village.
(Ord. 7-71, passed 2-15-1971; Res. 16-99, passed 8-16-1999; Ord. 09-04, passed
4-1-2004)
§ 31.05 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint a Chief of Police for the village with the
advice and consent of Council.
   (B)   The original appointment of the Chief of Police shall be for a
probationary period of six-months’ continuous service. No final appointment of
the Chief of Police shall be made until the appointee has satisfactorily served
his or her probationary period. At the end of the probationary period the Mayor
shall transmit to Council a record of the appointee’s service with his or her
recommendation thereon. The Mayor may with the concurrence of Council either
remove or finally appoint the appointee.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall be the peace officer of the village and the
executive head, under the Mayor, of the Police Department.
   (D)   In addition to the statutory duties and powers as provided in R.C. §§
737.18 and 737.19, the Chief of Police shall be required to perform the
following duties.
      (1)   (a)   The Chief of Police shall be “on call” at all times except
when he or she has scheduled another village police officer to be on call in
his or her absence. The Chief of Police shall be responsible for the scheduling
of all village police officers. The Chief of Police shall provide a weekly
schedule in advance to the Mayor listing the police officers on call and/or on
duty for each calendar week.
         (b)   The preceding requirements can be waived only upon advanced
written permission by the Mayor. For the purposes of this section, ON CALL
shall mean the reasonable ability to receive and respond to any telephone call
from within the village.
      (2)   The Chief of Police shall be either on duty or on call during all
public events occurring within the village, including but not limited to the
annual Village Street Fair and parade.
      (3)   The Chief of Police shall encourage and participate in community
activities that promote public safety, respect for the law such as Safety Town
and school programs.
      (4)   The Chief of Police shall attend one Council meeting every three
months or when otherwise requested by Council or Mayor.
      (5)   The Chief of Police shall not permit the police cruiser to be
operated outside the village except in matters of emergency, to transport
prisoners, to attend court hearings, and to conduct other public business.
      (6)   The Chief of Police shall maintain a complete inventory of all
property and equipment of the Village Police Department. On the second Monday
of January of each year the Chief of Police shall submit to the Mayor a
complete and signed inventory for the Police Department.
      (7)   The Chief of Police shall maintain accurate records on all Police
Department matters including criminal, juvenile, and administrative.
      (8)   The Chief of Police shall administer all Department regulations and
guidelines in an efficient and fair manner.
      (9)   The Chief of Police shall prepare a yearly budget and submit it to
Finance Committee of Council by the first Monday in June of every year.
      (10)   The Chief of Police shall attend professional training schools and
seminars directed and approved by Council, provided Council pays all expenses.
      (11)   The Chief of Police shall maintain a current record of all Police
Department keys and present a yearly inventory to the Mayor as provided in
division (D)(6) of this section.
   (E)   The Chief of Police in the performance of all his or her duties shall
conduct himself or herself in a moral, competent, efficient, honest, and
courteous manner.
   (F)   The Chief of Police shall provide the Mayor with notice of his or her
intention to leave the employment of the village ten working days prior to the
date of termination. Failure to provide the required notice of termination
shall result in forfeiture of one-half day of accumulated vacation and/or
holiday pay for each day of the ten-day notice period that the Chief of Police
fails or refuses to work.
   (G)   The position of Chief of Police shall be a full-time position, and no
person holding that office shall hold other employment apart from the duties of
Chief of Police. For the purpose of this division (G), the full-time position
shall be based on 40 hours per week.
   (H)   The Chief of Police shall be permitted during the months of December,
January, February, and March to use a village vehicle to drive home when off-
duty.
(Ord. 2-85, passed 3-5-1985; Ord. 14-85, passed 7-2-1985; Ord. 43-86, passed
11-18-1986; Ord. 27-2014, passed 9-2-2014)
Cross-reference:
   Police Department, see Ch. 32
§ 31.06 CLERK OF COUNCIL.
   (A)   The position of Clerk of Council is established. The Clerk of Council
shall assist the Village Fiscal Officer and perform the duties under the direct
supervision of the Village Fiscal Officer.
   (B)   The appointment to the position of Clerk of Council can be terminated
at any time by a majority vote of Council.
(Res. 15-04, passed 4-1-2004)
§ 31.07 INCOME TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
   The benefits to be provided for the part-time position of Income Tax
Administrator are limited to health and life insurance coverages as provided to
full-time employees.
(Ord. 10-02, passed 3-4-2002)
§ 31.08 MAYOR.
   (A)   Without limiting the authority inherent in the office, the benefits to
be provided for the position of Mayor are limited to life insurance coverage
and health insurance coverage as provided to full-time employees.
   (B)   The annual salary for the position of Mayor shall be as follows:
      (1)   For the year commencing January 1, 2016 until December 31, 2016:
$20,000;
      (2)   For the year commencing January 1, 2017 until December 31, 2017:
$20,000;
      (3)   For the year commencing January 1, 2018 until December 31, 2018:
$18,000;
      (4)   From January 1, 2019 and thereafter, until properly modified by
this Council: $16,000.
(Ord. 11-2015, passed 3-17-2015; Ord. 39-2021, passed 10-19-2021)
EMPLOYEES
§ 31.20 FULL-TIME POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   The position of full-time police officer is established. The Mayor is
authorized and directed to make an appointment of a police officer subject to
confirmation by Council.
   (B)   The compensation and benefits for that position shall be established
by Council by separate resolution.
(Ord. 24-89, passed 9-5-1989)
CHAPTER 32: VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Committees, Boards, and Commissions
   
32.01   Records Commission
Police Department
   
32.15   General rules for the organization, training, administration, control
and conduct of auxiliary and regular police officers
   
32.16   Police auxiliary established
Cross-reference:
   Full-time police officer, see §
31.20
   Police chief, see §
31.05
   Public records, see
Chapter 36
   Shade Tree Commission, see
Chapter 94
COMMITTEES, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
§ 32.01 RECORDS COMMISSION.
   The Village Records Commission is hereby established, consisting of the
Mayor, Fiscal Officer, Solicitor, and a citizen to be appointed by the Mayor.
(Res. 40-92, passed 12-21-1992)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.15 GENERAL RULES FOR THE ORGANIZATION, TRAINING, ADMINISTRATION, CONTROL
AND CONDUCT OF AUXILIARY AND REGULAR POLICE OFFICERS.
   The General Rules and Regulations for Auxiliary and Regular Police Officers
of the Village Police Department, as attached to Resolution 5-87, are adopted
as the official rules and regulations for the organization, training,
administration, control, and conduct of auxiliary and regular police officers.
These Rules and Regulations are hereby adopted by reference as if set out in
full herein.
(Res. 5-87, passed 2-17-1987)
§ 32.16 POLICE AUXILIARY ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   It is hereby determined to establish a police auxiliary within and for
the village, the purpose of which will be to assist the regularly appointed
police force of the village in its regular duties.
   (B)   This police auxiliary shall be under the direct supervision of the
Chief of Police of the village and shall be appointed by the Mayor upon the
recommendation of the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 13-75, passed 3-3-1975)
CHAPTER 33: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
33.01   National Incident Management System (NIMS) adopted
   
33.02   County Multi-Jurisdictional Hazard Mitigation Plan adopted
   
33.03   Emergency management services provided by county
Cross-reference:
   Police Chief, see
Chapter 31
   Police Department, see
Chapter 32
§ 33.01 NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (NIMS) ADOPTED.
   (A)   All departments, offices, and agencies of the village shall utilize
the Incident Management System prescribed by the Department of Homeland
Security, as implemented by the Ohio Emergency Management Agency and the
Director of the County Emergency Management Agency.
   (B)   The Director of the County Emergency Management Agency will begin
training on NIMS and revise the village’s emergency operations plan as soon as
practicable.
(Res. 35-05, passed 9-6-2005)
§ 33.02 COUNTY MULTI-JURISDICTIONAL HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN ADOPTED.
   (A)   The Richland County Hazard Mitigation Plan as updated and revised in
2011 and made available to the village is approved and adopted.
   (B)   The Fiscal Officer of the Council is directed to send a certified copy
of this resolution to the Richland County Office of Homeland Security and
Emergency Management Agency.
(Res. 05-04, passed 2-16-2004; Res. 2012-7, passed 2-7-2012)
§ 33.03 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT SERVICES PROVIDED BY COUNTY.
   The Mayor and Fiscal Officer are authorized and directed to enter into an
agreement with the County Commissioners to have the county provide County
Emergency Management Activities according to the terms and conditions approved
by Council.
(Res. 31-89, passed 12-5-1989; Res. 1-90, passed 1-16-1990)
CHAPTER 34: PURCHASING
Section
   
34.01   Central purchasing under direction of the Village Administrator
   
34.02   Award of bids
   
34.03   Local preference
§ 34.01 CENTRAL PURCHASING UNDER DIRECTION OF THE VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Central purchasing for all offices, departments, divisions, boards,
and commissions of the village is placed under the direction of the Village
Administrator.
   (B)   The Village Administrator shall make contracts, purchase supplies or
materials, and provide labor for any work of the village consistent with this
section.
   (C)   When any expenditure is anticipated to cost more than $5,000, the
Village Administrator shall first obtain Council’s approval.
   (D)   The Village Administrator shall follow all bidding and contracting
practices required by statute.
   (E)   The following purchasing procedures are adopted.
      (1)   All purchases will require a purchase order requesting the purchase
and designating the account from which funds will be encumbered for this
purchase, signed by the department supervisor, which must then be signed by the
village’s Fiscal Officer certifying that funds are available for purchase, and
finally by the Village Administrator authoring the purchase to be made. All
purchases that did not follow proper procedures must be reviewed by the Finance
Committee and then approved by Council prior to payment being made. In the
absence of the Village Administrator (three business days), the Mayor along
with one member of the Finance Committee may approve purchase orders (both
signatures are required for approval). All purchase orders must be obtained
prior to completing the purchase.
      (2)   The department supervisor shall not separate or divide a purchase
in an effort to circumvent the requirements for a purchase order, or to avoid
competitive bids. For any purchase exceeding $500, the Department Supervisor
will secure two or more quotations or bids for the items or materials to be
purchased. These quotations will be forwarded to the Village Administrator
along with the purchase order. Multiple quotations will not be required if
there is only one local vendor or supplier of a particular product or service,
or for emergency purposes.
      (3)   Blanket purchase orders will be issued each month for those vendors
that do frequent business with the village, establishing a maximum amount which
may be purchased from that vendor during the month. This will avoid the problem
of multiple, small purchase orders for very small individual purchases. Blanket
purchase orders will also be issued for those regular and relatively consistent
purchases such as utility accounts, gasoline vendors, and similar monthly
services.
      (4)   This policy does not preclude emergency purchases authorized by a
Department Superintendent and required for the continuation of necessary public
services or public safety. Those purchases will be reviewed by the Village
Administrator at a later time to verify that the purchases were necessary and
reasonable. This procedure also does not apply to purchases made with a village
credit card by those persons authorized to use the card for travel expenses,
conference registrations, and the like. The use of village credit cards for
routine operating expenditures will, however, require a purchase order before
the purchase can be completed.
      (5)   (a)   The Village Administrator is authorized to approve any
purchase up to an amount of $5,000 without approval from Village Council as
long as funds have been appropriated within the designated budget fund. If
sufficient funds are not available, the purchase shall be either delayed until
Council adjusts appropriations or Council authorizes the purchase from another
account. Purchases in excess of $5,000 must be discussed with the Finance
Committee and will require a motion of a member of the Finance Committee to
Council and approval by majority vote of Council.
         (b)   Failure to follow these procedures will result in disciplinary
action being taken.
(Ord. 09-36, passed 8-17-2009)
§ 34.02 AWARD OF BIDS.
   The village competitively-bid contracts shall be awarded to the lowest and
best bidder in accordance with Title 7 of the Ohio Revised Code.
(Ord. 24-96, passed 7-15-1996; Ord. 36-2014, passed 10-7-2014)
§ 34.03 LOCAL PREFERENCE.
   Without limiting the discretion inherent in applying the bid standard
adopted in §
34.02, the following local preference shall ordinarily be applied when
evaluating bids on all competitively bid contracts, except on any contract that
will be paid for by federal funds and except where otherwise prohibited by law
or by rules applicable to an actual or anticipated funding source.
   (A)   Local businesses are those businesses which have as their principal
place of business, as reflected in the records of the Ohio Secretary of State,
an address which is located within the municipal boundaries of this village,
and which in the quarter immediately prior to the advertising of bids have paid
municipal income taxes; any bidder who wishes to be considered a local business
must consent to the verification of having paid quarterly taxes by the Village
Income Tax Administrator, who will only confirm that taxes have been paid and
will not report the amount thereof. A local business that does not consent to
the verification may nonetheless be considered a regional business.
      (1)   If the lowest bid as determined by the village is not submitted by
a local business, and a bid was submitted by a local business, the local
business shall have an opportunity to match the lowest bid and be considered
the lowest bidder under the following conditions:
         (a)   If a local business submits a bid that is within 2% of the
lowest bid, up to a maximum of $20,000 as determined by the village, the
Village Administrator or his or her designee will notify the local business of
the amount of the lowest bid and give the local business two business days to
match the lowest bid and be considered the lowest bidder or to decline to match
the lowest bid.
   (B)   Regional businesses are those businesses which have as their principal
place of business, as reflected in the records of the Ohio Secretary of State,
an address which is located outside the municipal boundaries of this village
and within Richland County.
      (1)   If the lowest bid as determined by the village is not submitted by
a regional business, a bid was submitted by a regional business, and no local
business submitted the lowest bid or matched the lowest bid under division (A),
above, the regional business shall have an opportunity to match the lowest bid
and be considered the lowest bidder as provided below:
         (a)   If a regional business submits a bid that is within 1% of the
lowest bid, up to a maximum of $10,000 as determined by the village, the
Village Administrator or his or her designee will notify the regional business
of the amount of the lowest bid and give the regional business two business
days to match the lowest bid and be considered the lowest bidder or to decline
to match the lowest bid.
   (C)   The determination of whether an actual or anticipated funding source
will prevent the application of this preference will be made in the sole
discretion of the Village Administrator.
   (D)   Improper omission of this preference shall not be grounds for
invalidating bids, nor may a local business use such omission as grounds for a
protest; however, when this local preference is included in bid specifications
and it is determined prior to the award of the contract that such preference is
prohibited due to a known funding source, the erroneous inclusion of this
preference may be relied upon as a basis to reject all bids.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to create any private
rights, claims or causes of action on behalf of any person, including but not
limited to bidders, proposers, and contractors.
   (F)   This section shall be reprinted in its entirety within bid
specifications when this local preference applies.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 1-20-2015)
CHAPTER 35: TAXATION, FUNDS, AND FINANCES
Section
Miscellaneous Provisions
   
35.001   Safekeeping and deposit of monies received
   
35.002   Safe deposit boxes; use; access
   
35.003   Negotiability of checks
   
35.004   Official depository of funds
Funds
   
35.015   Interest or other income on investments shall accrue only to the
benefit of the entity that generated the investment funds
   
35.016   Computer Fund
   
35.017   Enforcement and Education Fund
   
35.018   Law Enforcement Trust Fund
   
35.019   Municipal Swimming Pool Fund
   
35.020   Cemetery Land Acquisition Fund
   
35.021   Cemetery Endowment Fund
   
35.022   Federal General Revenue Sharing Trust Fund
   
35.023   Fire Insurance Trust Fund
   
35.024   Local Fiscal Recovery Fund
Hotel/Motel Tax
   
35.035   Imposition of tax
   
35.036   Transient guest to pay tax
   
35.037   Refund of illegal or erroneous payments
   
35.038   Required records; inspection and destruction
   
35.039   Returns required
   
35.040   Liability, assessment, and petition for reassessment; penalties
   
35.041   Four-year limitation for assessments; exceptions
   
35.042   Tax paid by transient guest; false evidence of tax-exempt status
   
35.043   Vendor to collect tax; prohibition against rebates
   
35.044   Reports filed; fraudulent reports
   
35.045   Personal liability of corporate officers or employees
   
35.046   Definitions
Community Reinvestment Area
   
35.060   Community reinvestment area (CRA) designated
   
35.061   Identification of CRA
   
35.062   All properties in CRA eligible
   
35.063   Tax exemption
   
35.064   Application fee, monitoring fee for commercial and industrial projects
   
35.065   Housing Officer designated
   
35.066   CRA Housing Council; Tax Incentive Review Council
   
35.067   Reevaluation of CRA
   
35.068   Annual inspections
Road and Water Impact Fees
   
35.080   Establishment; title
   
35.081   Purpose and authority
   
35.082   Definitions
   
35.083   Interpretation
   
35.084   Development required to pay impact fee
   
35.085   Site impact analysis
   
35.086   Payment of the impact fee
   
35.087   Recapture and other agreements authorized
   
35.088   Impact fee schedule
   
35.089   Individual assessment of impact fees
   
35.090   Credits
   
35.091   Establishment of impact fee use districts
   
35.092   Use of funds collected
   
35.093   Refunds
   
35.094   Formula factors to be reassessed every two years
Income Tax
   
35.125   Title and citations
   
35.126   Construction of language; definitions
   
35.127   Income tax levy
   
35.128   Collection at source
   
35.129   Tax filing provisions
   
35.130   Declarations
   
35.131   Administration and enforcement
   
35.132   Department of Taxation
   
35.133   Board of Income Tax Appeal; representation
   
35.134   Penalties and violations
   
35.135   Confidentiality
   
35.136   Effective date
   
35.137   Rules and Regulations for income tax, under authority of Ordinance 32-
72, adopted
   
35.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: CRA Map
Editor’s note:
   Ordinance 33-01, the income tax ordinance, codified hereinbelow in §§
35.125 through
35.136, references and amends Ordinance 37-68 and Ordinance 32-72. The
following ordinances, enacted prior to Ordinance 33-01 that amended Ordinance
37-68 and Ordinance 32-72, are: Ord. 47-71, passed 11-15-1971 Ord. 24-80,
passed 5-20-1980; Ord. 47-80, passed 12-2-1980; Ord. 33-81, passed 8-18-1981;
Ord. 57-81, passed 12-29-1981; Ord. 4-82, passed 2-16-1982; Ord. 85-24, passed
11-19-1985; Ord. 24-87, passed 6-16-1987; Ord. 32-87, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 41-
87, passed 9-1-1987; Ord. 88-2, passed 2-2-1988; Ord. 3-91, passed 2-5-1991;
Ord. 23-95, passed 8-21-1995; Ord. 39-95, passed 12-4-1995; Ord. 11-97, passed
2-17-1997; Ord. 33-97, passed - -[1997]; Ord. 08-99, passed 4-19-1999; Ord. 34-
00, passed 12-18-2000.
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 35.001 SAFEKEEPING AND DEPOSIT OF MONIES RECEIVED.
   Cash payments to or other monies payable to and received by the village
shall be deposited in the village’s depository bank by the Fiscal Officer
according to the following schedule:
   (A)   Monies greater than $1,000 shall be deposited the next business day;
and
   (B)   Monies less than $1,000 shall be so deposited within three business
days.
(Ord. 02-00, passed 1-17-2000)
§ 35.002 SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES; USE; ACCESS.
   (A)   Village safe deposit boxes shall not be accessed without the presence
of two authorized village employees. A written activity report shall be made
and signed after each transaction. The report shall be kept on file with the
Assistant Fiscal Officer.
   (B)   Council shall by motion designate the authorized employees who shall
have access to the safe deposit boxes.
(Res. 15-08, passed 4-21-2008)
§ 35.003 NEGOTIABILITY OF CHECKS.
   (A)   Checks issued by the village shall be negotiable for a period of 90
days from the date of the check and thereafter shall be considered void and
nonnegotiable.
   (B)   Any person being the payor of a voided check may present the check for
payment to the Village Fiscal Officer or his or her designee.
   (C)   This section shall apply to checks printed with the notice of
negotiability limited to 90 days.
(Ord. 08-34, passed 10-6-2008)
§ 35.004 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORY OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The Fiscal Officer is directed and authorized to solicit applications
from eligible institutions to be depositories of the village’s interim and
active funds for five-year terms, as required by law.
   (B)   (1)   On estimate duly made, funds of the village aggregating a
maximum amount as determined by Council shall be awarded as inactive deposits
as determined by Council.
      (2)   The inactive funds of the village shall be deposited in a financial
institution as required by law.
      (3)   The financial institutions offering the highest rate of interest
per annum on inactive deposits shall be made the depository or depositories of
funds of the village for a period of five-year terms, as required by law.
      (4)   Bids will be received, and notice to all financial institutions in
the village and such other financial institutions as may be necessary, as
provided by law. The Council reserves the right to reject any and all bids.
      (5)   The funds of the village shall not be deposited in any financial
institution until a bond or securities have been deposited with the Fiscal
Officer of the village as provided by law.
   (C)   Any and all endorsements for or on behalf of this village upon checks,
drafts, notes, or instruments for deposit or collection made with the bank may
be written or stamped endorsements of the village without any designation of
the person making the endorsements.
   (D)   The bank shall be promptly notified in writing by the Fiscal Officer
or any other officer of this village of any change in these resolutions or
village bylaws and that, until it has actually received this notice in writing,
the bank is authorized to act in pursuance of this section.
(Res. 42-72, passed 12-15-1972; Res. 01-2012, passed 1-3-2012; Res. 02-2012,
passed 1-3-2012)
FUNDS
§ 35.015 INTEREST OR OTHER INCOME ON INVESTMENTS SHALL ACCRUE ONLY TO THE
BENEFIT OF THE ENTITY THAT GENERATED THE INVESTMENT FUNDS.
   (A)   It is hereby determined that monies earned on the investment of funds
generated by any entity of the village, and regardless of the nature of the
investment or the return, shall accrue and be payable only to the entity which
generated the investment funds. Whenever practical, the funds shall be
separated into individual accounts by the Fiscal Officer for investment or
deposit purposes. When the funds are not separated for investment or deposit
purposes, a proration of any income received on the joint investments or
deposits shall be made between the various contributors to the fund, which
proration shall be based upon the percentage of monies contributed by each
village entity.
   (B)   This section shall prevent the operation of state law which provides
that returns on investment of municipal funds not otherwise designated shall
accrue to the General Fund of the municipal corporation.
(Ord. 35-78, passed 9-1-1978)
§ 35.016 COMPUTER FUND.
   The Fiscal Officer is authorized and directed to establish a separate
Computer Fund, which shall be Fund # 2907.
(Ord. 10-66, passed 5-17-2010)
§ 35.017 ENFORCEMENT AND EDUCATION FUND.
   The Fiscal Officer is authorized and directed to establish an Enforcement
and Education Fund and to make the required distributions therefrom pursuant to
R.C. § 4511.19.
(Ord. 14-06, passed 4-3-2006)
§ 35.018 LAW ENFORCEMENT TRUST FUND.
   (A)   A Law Enforcement Trust Fund is established.
   (B)   Money recoveries awarded by the Common Pleas Court shall be deposited
into the Trust Fund.
   (C)   The Trust Fund shall be used only for the Village Police Department.
   (D)   No monies shall be used by the Village Police Department until the
Department has adopted a written internal control policy that addresses the
uses of the monies. The policy shall comply with the requirements of R.C. §
2981.13.
   (E)   The Trust Fund shall not be used to meet the operating costs of the
Police Department.
   (F)   The Department shall file with Council each year an annual report by
no later than January 31 verifying that the Trust Fund proceeds were expended
only for the purposes authorized by R.C. § 2981.13 and specifying the amount
expended for each authorized purpose.
   (G)   The Department shall file with the Ohio Attorney General each year an
annual report by no later than March 1 stating the receipt of Trust Funds and
the uses of any proceeds or forfeited monies made in the prior calendar year.
(Ord. 30-05, passed 8-1-2005)
§ 35.019 MUNICIPAL SWIMMING POOL FUND.
   (A)   A special fund known as the Municipal Swimming Pool Fund is
established subject to approval of the Auditor of State.
   (B)   The Fiscal Officer is directed to deposit into this Fund gifts,
grants, and other appropriations designated specifically for the construction,
renovation, maintenance, and operation of the municipal swimming pool.
(Ord. 27-02, passed 9-16-2002)
§ 35.020 CEMETERY LAND ACQUISITION FUND.
   Commencing January 1, 2011, all monies received from the sale of cemetery
lots shall be set aside and deposited into a separate fund for cemetery land
acquisition.
(Ord. 2010-94, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 35.021 CEMETERY ENDOWMENT FUND.
   (A)   The Trustees of the Village Cemetery are authorized and directed to
expend the income from the Village Cemetery Endowment Fund for perpetual care
of the lot or lots designated by the owner(s) or donor(s) in accordance with
law.
   (B)   The Trustees of the Village Cemetery may accept donations, gifts, and
bequests for which the principal and interest may be used for the enlargement,
improvement, embellishment, or care of the cemetery grounds generally.
(Ord. 3-94, passed 4-4-1994)
§ 35.022 FEDERAL GENERAL REVENUE SHARING TRUST FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a special fund to be known as the Federal
Revenue Sharing Trust Fund under the provisions of R.C. § 5705.12.
   (B)   All monies paid to the village under the Local Government Fiscal
Assistance Fund, being 31 U.S.C. §§ 6701 to 6720, shall be credited to this
Fund and expended in accordance with the terms and provisions of that federal
Act.
(Ord. 40-72, passed 12-1-1972)
§ 35.023 FIRE INSURANCE TRUST FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Fire Insurance Trust Fund which shall be
maintained separately from all other village funds as a trust fund for the
purposes hereinafter enumerated.
   (B)   For the purposes specified in R.C. § 3929.86, the Fiscal Officer of
the village is hereby designated as the officer to administer this Fire
Insurance Trust Fund.
   (C)   In the event of any loss by fire within the village occurring after
the effective date of this section, when the amount of the loss agreed to
between the named insured or insureds and the company or companies insuring the
loss equals or exceeds 60% of the aggregate limits of liability on all fire
policies covering the building or structure insured, the insurance company or
companies, in accordance with R.C. § 715.26(F), shall transfer from the
insurance proceeds to the Fiscal Officer of the village in the aggregate $1,000
for each $20,000, and each fraction of that amount, of a claim, or if, at the
time of a proof of loss agreed to between the named insured or insureds and the
insurance company or companies, the named insured or insureds have submitted a
contractor’s signed estimate of the costs of removing, repairing, or securing
the building or other structure, shall transfer from the insurance proceeds the
amount specified in the estimate.
      (1)   This transfer of proceeds shall be on a pro rata basis by all
companies insuring the building or other structure.
      (2)   The named insured or insureds may submit a contractor’s signed
estimate of the costs of removing, repairing, or securing the building or other
structure after the transfer, and the Fiscal Officer of the village shall
return the amount of the fund in excess of the estimate to the named insured or
insureds, provided that the village has not commenced to remove, repair, or
secure the building or other structure.
   (D)   Upon receipt of proceeds by the village as authorized by this section
and R.C. § 3929.86, the Fiscal Officer of the village shall place the proceeds
in the Fire Insurance Trust Fund to be used solely as security against the
total cost of removing, repairing, or securing incurred by the village pursuant
to R.C. § 715.261.
      (1)   When transferring the funds as required by this section, an
insurance company shall provide the Fiscal Officer of the village with the name
and address of the named insured or insureds, whereupon the Fiscal Officer of
the village or his or her designee shall contact the named insured or insureds,
certify that the proceeds have been received by the village, and notify them
that the following procedures will be followed.
      (2)   The fund shall be returned to the named insured or insureds when
repairs or removal, or securing of the building or other structure have been
completed and the required proof received by the designated officer, if the
village has not incurred any costs for the repairs, removal, or securing. If
the village has incurred any costs for repairs, removal, or securing of the
building or other structure, the costs shall be paid from the Fund and if
excess funds remain, the village shall transfer the remaining funds to the
named insured or insureds. Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit
the ability of the village to recover any deficiency under R.C. § 715.261.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the village
and the named insured or insureds from entering into an agreement that permits
the transfer of funds to the named insured or insureds if some other reasonable
disposition of the damaged property has been negotiated.
(Ord. 23-87, passed 5-5-1987)
§ 35.024 LOCAL FISCAL RECOVERY FUND.
   (A)   The "Local Fiscal Recovery Fund" shall be and is hereby established.
   (B)   The Director of Finance and Public Record as ex-officio Municipal
Treasurer be authorized to accept all funds received under the American Rescue
Plan Act and to deposit them into the Local Fiscal Recovery Fund.
   (C)   The municipality affirm said funds received under the American Rescue
Plan Act will be expended only in the manner prescribed by and consistent with
said Act and any applicable guidelines.
(Ord. 18-2021, passed 5-18-2021)
HOTEL/MOTEL TAX
§ 35.035 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   (A)   Effective September 1, 1995, for the purpose of providing revenue with
which to meet the needs of the village for use of the General Fund of the
village, including providing revenue to pay current expenses and to provide for
police and fire protection, an excise tax of 3% shall be and is levied on
transactions by which lodging by a hotel or transient accommodation is or is to
be furnished to transient guests pursuant to R.C. § 5739.02(C)(1).
   (B)   The tax applies and is collectible at the time the lodging is
furnished regardless of the time when the price is paid. The tax does not apply
to lodging furnished to the state, to any of the state’s political
subdivisions, or to any charitable organization for the lodging of transient
indigent individuals.
   (C)   For the purpose of the proper administration of this subchapter and to
prevent the evasion of the tax, it is presumed that all lodging furnished by
hotels or transient accommodations in this village to transient guests is
subject to tax until the contrary is established.
   (D)   Revenues generated by the provisions of this subchapter shall be
disbursed from the General Fund at the discretion of Council.
(Ord. 21-95, passed 8-21-1995)
§ 35.036 TRANSIENT GUEST TO PAY TAX.
   (A)   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall be paid by the transient
guest to the vendor, and each vendor shall collect from the transient guest the
full and exact amount of the tax payable on each taxable lodging.
   (B)   If the transaction is claimed to be exempt, the transient guest shall
furnish to the vendor, and the vendor shall obtain from the transient guest, a
statement specifying the reason that the sale is not legally subject to the
tax. If no statement is obtained, it shall be presumed the tax applies.
(Ord. 21-95, passed 8-21-1995)
§ 35.037 REFUND OF ILLEGAL OR ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS.
   The Fiscal Officer shall refund to vendors the amount of taxes paid
illegally or erroneously or paid on any illegal or erroneous assessment where
the vendor has not reimbursed himself or herself from the transient guest. When
an illegal or erroneous payment or assessment was not paid to a vendor but was
paid by the transient guest directly to the Finance Director, he or she shall
refund the appropriate amount to the transient guest. Applications shall be
filed with the Finance Director on the form prescribed by him or her, within 90
days from the date it is ascertained that the assessment or payment was illegal
or erroneous. However, in any event the application for refund shall be filed
with the Finance Director within four years from the date of the illegal or
erroneous payment of the tax. On filing of the application, the Finance
Director shall determine the amount of refund due and draw a warrant for that
amount to the person claiming the refund. The Finance Director shall make these
payments from a tax refund account as established by this subchapter and the
same is hereby established.
(Ord. 21-95, passed 8-21-1995)
§ 35.038 REQUIRED RECORDS; INSPECTION AND DESTRUCTION.
   Each vendor shall keep complete and accurate records of lodgings furnished,
together with a record of the tax collected thereon, which shall be the amount
due under this chapter, and shall keep all invoices and any other pertinent
documents. If the vendor furnishes lodging not subject to the tax, the vendor’s
records shall show the identity of the transient guest, if the sale was
exempted by reason of identity, or the nature of the transaction if exempted
for any other reason. These records and other documents shall be open during
business hours to the inspection of the Finance Director and shall be preserved
for a period of not less than four years, unless the Finance Director, in
writing, consents to their destruction within that period, or by order requires
that they be kept longer.
(Ord. 21-95, passed 8-21-1995)
§ 35.039 RETURNS REQUIRED.
   Each vendor shall file a monthly return on forms prescribed by the Finance
Director showing receipts from furnishing lodging, the amount of tax due from
the vendor to village for the period covered by the return, and other
information as the Finance Director deems necessary for the proper
administration of this subchapter. The monthly return is due on or before the
fifteenth day of each month during a calendar year. The Finance Director may
extend the time for making and filing returns. Returns shall be filed by
mailing the same to the Finance Director, together with payment of the amount
of tax shown to be due thereon. The Finance Director shall stamp or otherwise
mark on all returns the date received by him or her and shall also show thereon
by stamp or otherwise the amount of payment received with the return. Any
vendor who fails to file a return under this chapter shall forfeit and pay into
village treasury the sum of 1% of the tax due. The Finance Director, if he or
she deems it necessary in order to ensure the payment of the tax imposed by
this chapter, may require returns and payments to be made for other than
monthly periods. The returns shall be signed by the vendor or his or her
authorized agent.
(Ord. 21-95, passed 8-21-1995)
§ 35.040 LIABILITY, ASSESSMENT, AND PETITION FOR REASSESSMENT; PENALTIES.
   (A)   If any vendor collects the tax imposed by or pursuant to this
subchapter and fails to remit the same to village as prescribed, he or she
shall be personally liable for any amount collected which he or she failed to
remit. The Finance Director may make an assessment against the vendor based
upon any information in the Finance Director’s possession. If any vendor fails
to collect the tax or any transient guest fails to pay the tax imposed by or
pursuant to this chapter on any transaction subject to the tax, the vendor or
transient guest shall be personally liable for the amount of the tax applicable
to the transaction. The Finance Director may make an assessment against either
the vendor or transient guest, as the facts may require, based upon any
information in his or her possession. An assessment against a vendor, in cases
where the tax imposed by or pursuant to this subchapter has not been collected
or paid, shall not discharge the transient guest’s liability to reimburse the
vendor for the tax applicable to that transaction.
   (B)   In each case the Finance Director shall give to the vendor or
transient guest assessed written notice of the assessment. The notice may be
served upon the vendor or transient guest personally or by registered or
certified mail. An assessment issued against either, pursuant to the provisions
of this subchapter, shall not be considered an election of remedies, nor a bar
to an assessment against the other for the tax applicable to the same
transaction, provided that no assessment shall be issued against any vendor or
transient guest for the tax due on a particular transaction if the tax has
actually been paid by another.
   (C)   The Finance Director may make an assessment against any vendor who
fails to file a return required by this subchapter or fails to remit the proper
amount of tax in accordance with this subchapter. When information in the
possession of the Finance Director indicates that the amount required to be
collected is, or should be, greater than the amount remitted by the vendor, the
Finance Director may, upon the basis of test checks of a vendor’s business for
a representative period which are hereby authorized, determine the ratio which
the tax required to be collected under this subchapter bears to the hotel’s or
transient accommodation’s lodgings which determination shall be the basis of an
assessment as herein provided in this subchapter. Notice of the assessment
shall be made in the manner prescribed in this subchapter.
   (D)   Unless the vendor or transient guest, to whom the notice of assessment
is directed, files within 30 days after service thereof, either personally or
by registered or certified mail, a petition in writing, verified under oath by
the vendor, transient guest, or his or her authorized agent, having knowledge
of the facts, setting forth with particularity the items of the assessment
objected to, together with the reasons for the objections, the assessment shall
become conclusive and the amount thereof shall be due and payable, from the
vendor or transient guests so assessed, to the Finance Director. When a
petition for reassessment is filed, the Finance Director shall assign a time
and place for the hearing of same and shall notify the petitioner thereof by
registered or certified mail, but the Finance Director may continue the
hearings from time to time if necessary.
   (E)   A penalty of 18% shall be added to the amount of every assessment made
under this subchapter. The Finance Director may adopt and promulgate rules and
regulations providing for the remission of penalties added to assessments made
under this chapter.
   (F)   When any vendor or transient guest files a petition for reassessment
as provided in this subchapter, the assessment made by the Finance Director,
together with penalties thereon, shall become due and payable within three days
after notice of the findings made at the hearing has been served, either
personally or by registered or certified mail, upon the party assessed.
(Ord. 21-95, passed 8-21-1995)
§ 35.041 FOUR-YEAR LIMITATION FOR ASSESSMENTS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No assessment shall be made or issued against a vendor or transient
guest for any tax imposed by or pursuant to this subchapter more than four
years after the return date for the period in which the lodging was furnished,
or more than four years after the return for the period is filed, whichever is
later.
   (B)   This section does not bar an assessment:
      (1)   When the Finance Director has substantial evidence of amounts of
taxes collected by a vendor from a transient guest’s lodging which were not
returned to the village;
      (2)   When the vendor assessed failed to file a return as required; or
      (3)   When the Finance Director and the vendor or guest waive the
limitation in writing.
(Ord. 21-95, passed 8-21-1995)
§ 35.042 TAX PAID BY TRANSIENT GUEST; FALSE EVIDENCE OF TAX-EXEMPT STATUS.
   No transient guest shall refuse to pay the full and exact tax as required by
this subchapter or shall present to the vendor false evidence indicating that
the lodging as furnished is not subject to the tax.
(Ord. 21-95, passed 8-21-1995) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.043 VENDOR TO COLLECT TAX; PROHIBITION AGAINST REBATES.
   No vendor shall fail to collect the full and exact tax as required by this
subchapter. No vendor shall refund, remit, or rebate to a transient guest,
either directly or indirectly, any of the tax levied pursuant to this
subchapter or make in any form of advertising, verbal or otherwise, any
statements which might imply that he or she is absorbing the tax, or paying the
tax for the transient guest by an adjustment of prices, or furnishing lodging
at a price including the tax, or rebating the tax in any other manner.
(Ord. 21-95, passed 8-21-1995) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.044 REPORTS FILED; FRAUDULENT REPORTS.
   (A)   No person, including any officer of a corporation or employee of a
corporation having control or supervision of or charged with the responsibility
of filing returns, shall fail to file any return or report required to be filed
by this subchapter or file or cause to be filed any incomplete, false, or
fraudulent return, report, or statement.
   (B)   If any vendor required to file monthly returns under this subchapter
fails, on two consecutive months or on three or more months within a 12-month
period, to file the returns when due or to pay the tax thereon, or if any other
vendor authorized by the Finance Director to file returns at less frequent
intervals fails, on two or more occasions within a 24-month period, to file the
returns when due or to pay the tax due thereon, the Finance Director may
require the vendor to furnish security in an amount equal to the average tax
liability of the vendor for a period of one year, as determined by the Finance
Director from a review of returns or other information pertaining to the
vendor, which amount shall in no event be less than $1,000. The security may be
in the form of a payment to be applied to pay the tax due on subsequent
returns, or a corporate surety bond, satisfactory to the Finance Director,
conditioned upon payment of the tax due with the returns from the vendor. The
security shall be filed within ten days following the vendor’s receipt of the
notice from the Finance Director of its requirements.
   (C)   A corporate surety bond filed under this section shall be returned to
the vendor if, for a period of 12 consecutive months following the date the
bond was filed, the vendor has filed all returns and remitted payment therewith
within the time prescribed in this subchapter.
(Ord. 21-95, passed 8-21-1995)
§ 35.045 PERSONAL LIABILITY OF CORPORATE OFFICERS OR EMPLOYEES.
   If any vendor corporation required to file returns and remit tax due to the
village under the provisions of this subchapter fails for any reason to make
the filing or payment, any of its officers or employees charged with the
responsibility of filing returns and making payments shall be personally liable
for that failure. The dissolution of a corporation shall not discharge an
officer’s or employee’s liability for a prior failure of the corporation to
file returns or remit tax due. The sum due for this liability may be collected
by assessment in the manner provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 21-95, passed 8-21-1995)
§ 35.046 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FINANCE DIRECTOR.  The person designated by Council to collect and
administer the tax.
   HOTEL. Every establishment kept, used, maintained, advertised, or held out
to the public to be a place where sleeping accommodations are offered to
guests, in which five or more rooms are used for the accommodation of the
guests, whether the rooms are in one or several structures. HOTEL includes
MOTEL.
   TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATIONS. Every establishment kept, used, maintained,
advertised, or held out to the public to be a place where sleeping
accommodations are offered to guests in which four or less rooms are used for
the accommodation of the guests, whether the rooms are in one or several
structures.
   TRANSIENT GUESTS. Persons occupying a room or rooms for sleeping
accommodations for less than 30 consecutive days.
   VENDOR.  The person who is the owner or operator of the hotel or transient
accommodation and who furnishes the lodging.
(Ord. 21-95, passed 8-21-1995)
COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT AREA
§ 35.060 COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT AREA (CRA) DESIGNATED.
   The area designated as the Village Historic District Community Reinvestment
Area constitutes an area in which housing facilities or structures of
historical significance are located, and in which new construction or repair of
existing facilities has been discouraged.
(Ord. 09-33, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 35.061 IDENTIFICATION OF CRA.
   (A)   Pursuant to R.C. § 3735.66, the Village Historic District Community
Reinvestment Area is hereby established in the following described area: See
map in Appendix A to this chapter that adopted by reference and made a part
hereof as if appearing in total.
   (B)   The Community Reinvestment Area is approximately depicted as the
crosshatched area on the map attached to Ordinance 09-33 (see Appendix A to
this chapter) and by this reference incorporated herein. Only residential,
commercial, and/or industrial properties consistent with the applicable zoning
regulations within the designated Community Reinvestment Area will be eligible
for exemptions under this program.
(Ord. 09-33, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 35.062 ALL PROPERTIES IN CRA ELIGIBLE.
   All properties identified in Appendix A to this chapter as being within the
designated Community Reinvestment Area are eligible for this incentive (the
village may determine that all or any combination of project types,
residential, commercial, and industrial, are eligible). This proposal is a
public/private partnership intended to promote and expand conforming uses in
the designated area. As part of the project, the village intends to undertake
supporting public improvements in the designated area.
(Ord. 09-33, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 35.063 TAX EXEMPTION.
   (A)   Within the Community Reinvestment Area, the percentage of the tax
exemption on the increase in the assessed valuation resulting from improvements
to commercial and industrial real property and the term of those exemptions
shall be negotiated on a case-by-case basis in advance of construction or
remodeling occurring according to the rules outlined in R.C. § 3735.67. The
results of the negotiation as approved by this Council will be set in writing
in a Community Reinvestment Area Agreement as outlined in R.C. § 3735.671. For
residential property, a tax exemption on the increase in the assessed valuation
resulting from the improvements as described in R.C. § 3735.67 shall be granted
upon application by the property owner and certification thereof by the
designated Housing Officer for the following periods:
      (1)   Ten years, for the remodeling of every residential dwelling unit
containing not more than two housing units and upon which the cost of
remodeling is at least $2,500, as described in R.C. § 3735.67, and with the
exemption being 100% for each of the ten years;
      (2)   Ten years, for the remodeling of every residential dwelling unit
containing more than two housing units and upon which the cost of remodeling is
at least $5,000, as described in R.C. § 3735.67, and with the exemption being
100% for each of the ten years;
      (3)   Fifteen years, for the construction of dwellings containing not
more than two housing units, as described in R.C. § 3735.67, with the exemption
being 100% for each of the 15 years;
      (4)   Up to and including ten years, and up to and including 100% for the
remodeling of existing commercial and industrial facilities and upon which the
cost of remodeling is at least $5,000, as described in R.C. § 3735.67, the term
and percentage of which shall be negotiated on a case-by-case basis in advance
of remodeling occurring; and
      (5)   Up to and including 15 years, and up to and including 100% for the
construction of new commercial or industrial facilities, the term and
percentage of which shall be negotiated on a case-by-case basis in advance of
construction occurring.
   (B)   For the purposes of the above-described Community Reinvestment Area,
structures exclusively used for residential purposes and composed of four and
fewer units shall be classified as residential structures.
   (C)   If remodeling qualifies for an exemption, during the period of the
exemption, the exempted percentage of the dollar amount of the increase in
market value of the structure shall be exempt from real property taxation. If
new construction qualifies for an exemption, during the period of the
exemption, the exempted percentage of the structure shall not be considered to
be an improvement on the land on which it is located for the purpose of real
property taxation.
(Ord. 09-33, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 35.064 APPLICATION FEE, MONITORING FEE FOR COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL
PROJECTS.
   All commercial and industrial projects are required to comply with the state
application fee requirements of R.C. § 3735.672(C) and the local annual
monitoring fee of 1% of the amount of taxes exempted under the agreement, a
minimum of $500 up to a maximum of $2,500 annually unless waived.
(Ord. 09-33, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 35.065 HOUSING OFFICER DESIGNATED.
   To administer and implement the provisions of this subchapter, the Village
Administrator is designated as the Housing Officer as described in R.C. §§
3735.65 through 3735.70.
(Ord. 09-33, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 35.066 CRA HOUSING COUNCIL; TAX INCENTIVE REVIEW COUNCIL.
   (A)   A Community Reinvestment Area Housing Council shall be created,
consisting of two members appointed by the Mayor of the village, two members
appointed by the Council of the village, and one member appointed by the
Planning Commission of the village. The majority of the members shall then
appoint two additional members who shall be residents within the area. Terms of
the members of the Council shall be for three years. An unexpired term
resulting from a vacancy in the Council shall be filled in the same manner as
the initial appointment was made. The Community Reinvestment Area Housing
Council shall make an annual inspection of the properties within the district
for which an exemption has been granted under R.C. § 3735.67. The Council shall
also hear appeals under R.C. § 3735.70.
   (B)   A Tax Incentive Review Council shall be established pursuant to R.C. §
5709.85 and shall consist of three representatives appointed by the Board of
County Commissioners, two representatives of the municipal corporation
appointed by the Municipal CEO with Council concurrence, the County Auditor or
designee, and a representative of each affected Board of Education. At least
two members must be residents of the village. The Tax Incentive Review Council
shall review annually the compliance of all agreements involving the granting
of exemptions for commercial or industrial real property improvements under
R.C. § 3735.671 and make written recommendations to the Council as to
continuing, modifying, or terminating the agreement based upon the performance
of the agreement.
(Ord. 09-33, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 35.067 REEVALUATION OF CRA.
   The Council reserves the right to reevaluate the designation of the Village
Historic District Community Reinvestment Area after December 31, 2012 (ODOD
suggests an annual review) at which time the Council may direct the Housing
Officer not to accept any new applications for exemptions as described in R.C.
§ 3735.67.
(Ord. 09-33, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 35.068 ANNUAL INSPECTIONS.
   The Community Reinvestment Area Housing Council shall make an annual
inspection of the properties within the district for which an exemption has
been granted under R.C. § 3735.67. The Council shall also hear appeals under
R.C. § 3735.70.
(Ord. 09-33, passed 7-6-2009)
ROAD AND WATER IMPACT FEES
§ 35.080 ESTABLISHMENT; TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be referred to as the "Road and Water
Impact Fees" Ordinance.
(Ord. 5-97, passed 1-7-1997; Ord. 17-2017, passed 2-21-2017)
§ 35.081 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Village Council recognizes that new growth and development in the
village requires that the capacity of the village's infrastructure be expanded
if existing levels of service are to be maintained and that in the absence of a
funded program of roadway and water improvements, new growth and development
would have to be restricted in order to protect the health, safety, and welfare
of the citizens of the village.
   (B)   The purpose of this subchapter is to ensure that new growth mitigates
the impact of new growth and development on the quality of life in the village
by paying a fair share of the costs of improvements needed to serve new growth
and development thereby ensuring that needed improvements are constructed.
   (C)   All fair share impact fees collected pursuant to this subchapter shall
be used for the construction of road and water improvements, both past and
future, that benefit and serve new growth and development.
   (D)   The village has the authority to implement a fair share road impact
fee program under the Ohio Constitution's home rule provisions, Ohio
Constitution Article XVIII, and subdivision regulations. R.C. Chapter 711 et
seq.
(Ord. 5-97, passed 1-7-1997; Ord. 17-2017, passed 2-21-2017)
§ 35.082 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AVERAGE DAILY DEMAND. The average of the total amount of water used by a
particular amount of land use per 24-hour day during a one-year period. For
purposes of this subchapter, the AVERAGE DAILY DEMAND of water may be assumed
to equal the amount of sanitary sewer discharged from a development except as
otherwise stated herein.
   AVERAGE WEEKDAY TRIPS. The average number of vehicle trips generated by a
particular amount of land use per 24-hour day, excluding Saturdays, Sundays,
and holidays.
   DEVELOPER. A person, corporation, organization, or other legal entity
undertaking development.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any construction or expansion of building(s) or structure(s),
or any changes in the use of any building(s) or structure(s) or land use that
will generate new or additional traffic in terms of average daily trips, peak
hour trips, or longer trip lengths, and/or will generate new or additional
water or sewer demand.
   EASEMENT. A quantity of land over which a liberty, privilege, or advantage
is granted by the owner to the public, a corporation, or particular person for
a specific use or purpose.
   ENCUMBERED. Legally obligated or otherwise committed to use by appropriation
or contract.
   ENGINEER, PROFESSIONAL. A person registered to practice professional
engineering by the State Board of Registration as specified in R.C. Chapter
4733.
   FAIR SHARE. The share or portion of the cost of improvements which is
reasonably attributable to or needed to serve a particular development.
   FEE PAYER. A person undertaking development who pays a fair share impact fee
in accordance with the terms of this subchapter.
   GROSS FLOOR AREA. The total floor area of a building. For purposes of this
subchapter, the gross leasable area may be assumed to equal the GROSS FLOOR
AREA.
   IMPACT FEE. The fair share regulatory fee imposed upon new growth and
development by this subchapter.
   IMPACT FEE USE DISTRICT. The area designed as an improvement benefit
district in §
35.091 in which collected fair share impact fees must be expended.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Grading, street surfacing, curbs and gutters, sidewalks,
crosswalks, water mains, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, drainage facilities and
structures, street lights, street trees, and the appropriate appurtenances
required to render land suitable for the use proposed.
   LEVEL OF SERVICE. A measure of roadway capacity in terms of traffic flow, in
which operating speeds are assessed, and in which changes in operating
conditions, fluctuations in volume, and temporary restrictions to flow are
evaluated.
   LEVEL OF SERVICE D. A measure of roadway or signal capacity in terms of
traffic flow which describes a condition approaching unstable traffic flow.
Tolerable operating speeds are maintained, although considerably affected by
changes in operating conditions. Fluctuations in volume and temporary
restrictions to flow may cause substantial increases in delay and hence
decreases in operating speeds. Drivers have little freedom to maneuver, and
comfort and convenience are low, but conditions can be tolerated for short
periods of time. LEVEL OF SERVICE D is generally calculated as a volume-to-
capacity ratio of about 80% which represents average travel speeds of about 40%
of free-flow speed and delays at signals of 25 to 40 seconds per vehicle.
   NON-COMMENCEMENT. The cancellation or abandonment of authorized development
and the expiration or forfeiture of development approval.
   OFF-SITE IMPROVEMENTS. Roadway, water, and/or sewer facilities that are
planned and designed to provide traffic, water, and/or sewer service to the
general public in contrast to on-site improvements, which are necessary to
provide access, water, and/or sewer to a particular development. The fact that
either type of improvement may have incidental benefits of special or general
character shall not be considered in determining which improvements are on- or
off-site. The character of the improvement shall control a determination of
whether an improvement is on- or off-site, and the physical location of the
improvement on- or off-site shall not be considered determinative.
   PASS-BY TRIPS. Those trips to a development attracted from the passing
traffic on adjacent streets. (Trip generation rates are based on volumes of
traffic at a driveway of a site being studied. Therefore, impacts on adjacent
public streets can be based on a reduction factor to account for PASS-BY
TRIPS.)
   PEAK HOUR. A two-hour period from 7:00 and 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 and 6:00 p.m.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, governmental agency, business trust,
estate, trust, partnership, association, two or more persons having joint or
common interest, or any other legal entity.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. An area or strip of land on which an irrevocable right of
passage is taken or dedicated and accepted for public use.
   ROAD CAPACITY. The maximum number of vehicles which have a reasonable
expectation of passing over a given section of a lane or a roadway in one
direction, or in both directions for a two-lane, three-lane, or four-lane
highway, during a given time period under prevailing traffic conditions at an
identified level of service.
   STREET OR ROAD, PUBLIC. A right-of-way, which has been properly dedicated,
improved, and accepted for public use. and which provides for vehicular,
pedestrian, and utility access to abutting properties.
   TRIPS. A single or one-direction movement with either origin or the
destination (exiting or entering) inside a development. For traffic generation
purposes, total TRIPS (or trip ends) for a land use over a given period of time
are the total of all TRIPS entering plus all TRIPS exiting a development during
that designated time.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Bellville, Ohio.
   VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR. The person designated by the Village Mayor to manage,
conduct, and control village utilities and improvements pursuant to R.C. §
735.273.
(Ord. 5-97, passed 1-7-1997; Ord. 17-2017, passed 2-21-2017)
§ 35.083 INTERPRETATION.
   Interpretation of the provisions of this subchapter shall be made by the
Village Administrator.
(Ord. 5-97, passed 1-7-1997; Ord. 17-2017, passed 2-21-2017)
§ 35.084 DEVELOPMENT REQUIRED TO PAY IMPACT FEE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, all development
within the village shall pay, as a condition of development approval, an impact
fee according to the terms and conditions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The following development shall not be required to pay to the impact
fee imposed by this subchapter:
      (1)   Alterations or expansion of an existing dwelling unit where no
additional units are created and the use is not changed;
      (2)   The construction of accessory buildings or structures which are not
dwelling units and which do not constitute an increase in intensity of use
under the zoning ordinance and do not generate additional traffic, water
demand, and sewer flow;
      (3)   The replacement of a destroyed or partially destroyed building or
structure, with a new building or structure of the same size and use;
      (4)   Publicly owned governmental buildings, except for those used for
permanent or temporary housing;
      (5)   Development waived by the Mayor where the additional traffic
generated by the development has an insignificant impact on the level of
service of the street and traffic control systems, and no water and no sewer
services are provided to the development. In the event a previously exempted
development undergoes a change in use as defined in §
35.082, the appropriate fee shall be paid prior to the issuance of a zoning
permit or certificate of occupancy; and
      (6)   Development not located in an Impact Fee Use District established
in §
35.091.
(Ord. 5-97, passed 1-7-1997; Ord. 17-2017, passed 2-21-2017)
§ 35.085 SITE IMPACT ANALYSIS.
   (A)   Any proposed development required to pay an impact fee shall be
required to provide the village a site impact analysis unless waived by the
Village Administrator. For those developments required to pay an impact fee,
the analysis will be used to help verify the amount of the fee.
   (B)   The analysis shall include but not be limited to:
      (1)   Traffic impact analysis.
         (a)   Trip generation rates for the development in terms of average
weekday trips and peak hour trips based on empirical surveys for similar land
uses and/or data presented by the Institute of Transportation Engineers, Trip
Generation, latest edition;
         (b)   Where required by the Village Administrator, a traffic analysis
of the existing public street(s) and signal(s) impacted by the site;
         (c)   Recommendations of ingress/egress improvements, and where
required, improvements to existing public streets and/or traffic signals; and
         (d)   Description of any proposed traffic management systems to reduce
impact or traffic generated by the site.
      (2)   Water impact analysis.
         (a)   Gross floor area of the building and number of demand units
(i.e., motel rooms, restaurant seats, pump islands, employees) as appropriate
to estimate water demand and, where available, average daily demand rates for
the development based on empirical surveys for similar land uses;
         (b)   Size of water service line and service meter; and
         (c)   Description of special circumstances such as lawn irrigation
system, fire suppression system, deduct meters, and the like.
(Ord. 5-97, passed 1-7-1997; Ord. 17-2017, passed 2-21-2017)
§ 35.086 PAYMENT OF THE IMPACT FEE.
   Impact fees imposed pursuant to this subchapter shall be paid in full prior
to the issuance of a zoning permit or other final action authorizing the
intended use of land or structure.
(Ord. 5-97, passed 1-7-1997; Ord. 17-2017, passed 2-21-2017)
§ 35.087 RECAPTURE AND OTHER AGREEMENTS AUTHORIZED.
   Notwithstanding any provision of this subchapter, any person may, at any
time, enter into a recapture or other financing agreement with the village
providing for financing and construction of road or water improvements, the
repayment of monies expended by the person to construct the improvements in
excess of the impact fee due and owing for development proposed by that person
out of impact fees collected. As a part of this agreement, the village may
agree to any approach to payment of impact fees provided that the individual
amounts of road and water improvements is not less than each amount that could
be constructed with the impact fees calculated according to the fee schedule in
§§
35.088 and
35.089.
(Ord. 5-97, passed 1-7-1997; Ord. 17-2017, passed 2-21-2017; 32-2017, passed 6-
20-2017)
§ 35.088 IMPACT FEE SCHEDULE.
   Any person who initiates any development for which an impact fee is required
to be paid by §
35.084, except for persons who apply for a determination of an individual
impact fee assessment pursuant to §
35.089, shall pay an impact fee according to the following fee schedule:
Table 1
Impact Fee Schedule
Impact Fee District
Land-Use Type Unit Water Traffic Total
Table 1
Impact Fee Schedule
Impact Fee District
Land-Use Type              Unit            Water   Traffic Total
1. Residential unit        Each unit       $875    $180    $1,055
2. Hotel/motel             Room            $175    $180    $355
3. Restaurants
   a. Fast food         Seat            $210    $216    $426
   b. Quality sit-down  Seat            $122.50 $54     $177
4. Gas station             Fueling station $1,750  $2,016  $3,766
5. Office                  Employee        $70     $144    $214
6. Retail
   a. Less than 50,000 s1,000 sf GFA    $700    $1,800  $2,500
   b. 50,000 to 100,000 1,000 sf GFA    $700    $1,260  $1,960
NOTES:
1. Each apartment or condominium intended for single occupancy is
considered as one residential unit.
2. Retail areas greater than 100,000 sf will require engineering analysis
to determine water and sewer usage rates and traffic volume.
3. “GFA” is the gross floor area of the building.
 
(Ord. 5-97, passed 1-7-1997; Ord. 17-2017, passed 2-21-2017; Ord. 32-2017,
passed 6-20-2017)
§ 35.089 INDIVIDUAL ASSESSMENT OF IMPACT FEES.
   (A)   Any person who initiates development which is required to pay an
impact fee but is not listed in the fee schedule in §
35.088 or whose development warrants a new traffic signal control not included
in division (B) below shall apply for a determination of an individual impact
fee assessment for the proposed development. Also, any person who believes that
the actual traffic generation and water and sewer demand from a proposed
project will be less than the projected traffic and water and sewer demand on
which the fee schedule was based, may apply for a determination of an
individual impact fee assessment for the proposed development. The individual
impact fee assessment shall be calculated according to the following formula:
 
Use District 1 - I-71 and S.R. 97
Road Fee = $36.00/trip X Average Weekday Trips + C x (Signal Cost) - Road
Credit
Water Fee = $3.50/gpd X Average Daily Demand - Water Credit
 
where:
 
               The average of the total amount of water used by a particular
Average        amount of land use per 24-hour day during a one-year period. For
Daily Demand = purposes of this subchapter the average daily demand of water
               may be assumed to equal the amount of sanitary sewer discharged
               from a development except as otherwise stated herein
Average        The average number of vehicle trips generated by a particular
Weekday Trip = amount of land use per 24-hour day, excluding Saturdays,
               Sundays, and holidays
C            = Proportionate share cost factor for traffic signal(s) according
               to Table 2
               Actual or estimated cost to install, modify, or improve traffic
Signal Cost  = signal(s) directly affected by the development, including
               associated turn lanes. Costs to install certain signals are
               exempt as provided for by division (B) below
               Estimated or actual cost of facilities provided by the developer
Credit       = which benefit the general public as provided for by §
               35.084
 
   Table 2
Proportionate Share Cost Factor, “C’, For Traffic Signals
Condition “C” FacDescription
   Table 2
Proportionate Share Cost Factor, “C’, For Traffic Signals
Condition “C” Description
          Factor
I         1.0     Major development by itself at a “T” intersection to form new
                  signal
II        0.75    Development opposite existing road, no existing signal
III       1.0     Development at existing signal requiring improvements/
                  modifications
IV        0.5     Two developments opposite each other to form new signal
                  One or more developments impacting existing signal or requiring
V         Ci      new signal, where C shall be determined for each development by
                  an approved traffic impact study
 
   (B)   Costs to install signals that are already included in the trip fee
shall be exempted from the “signal cost.” Signalized intersections already
included in the trip fee are listed below:
 
Impact Fee District
S.R. 97 and Alexander Road
S.R. 97 and Comfort Plaza
S.R. 97 and Kochheiser Road
 
   (C)   Within 15 working days of receipt of an application for an individual
impact fee assessment, the Village Administrator shall determine if the
application is complete. If the Village Administrator determines the
application is not complete, he or she shall send a written statement
specifying the deficiencies by mail to the person submitting the application.
Until the deficiencies are corrected, the Village Administrator shall take no
further action on the application.
   (D)   When the Village Administrator determines the application for an
individual impact fee assessment is complete, the Village Administrator shall,
within 15 working days, review the application, and if the Village
Administrator determines that the traffic information, traffic factors and
water demands, or methodology support an individual impact fee assessment that
is acceptable and fairly assesses the fair share of cost of improvements needed
to serve the proposed development, he or she shall issue a determination of
individual impact fee assessment. If the Village Administrator determines the
traffic information, traffic factors, and water demands or methodology are not
appropriate, the application for individual impact fee assessment shall be
denied, and the developer shall pay the fair share impact fee according to the
schedule established in this section and §
35.088.
(Ord. 5-97, passed 1-7-1997; Ord. 17-2017, passed 2-21-2017; Ord. 32-2017,
passed 6-20-2017)
§ 35.090 CREDITS.
   (A)   Any person who initiates any development may apply for a credit
against the fair share impact fee imposed by this subchapter for any
contribution, payment, construction, or dedication of land accepted and
received by the village for capital improvements within the same Impact Fee Use
District as the proposed development. No credit shall exceed the impact fee
imposed by this subchapter for the proposed development. Any approved credit
shall be assigned to the proper road or water impact fee.
   (B)   An applicant shall be entitled to a credit equal to the dollar value
of the cost of off-site improvements previously contributed, paid for or
legally obligated to by the applicant or his or her predecessor in interest.
The cost of the improvements shall be based on the following criteria:
      (1)   The actual cost or estimated cost of improvements based on recent
bid sheet information of the village or other local government agencies; and/or
      (2)   A qualified appraisal of the fair market value of any land at the
date the impact fee is payable.
   (C)   The property owner may apply for a determination of entitlement to
credit by submitting an application for a determination of credit to the
Village Administrator. The application shall include the following information:
      (1)   A proposed plan of specific improvements, prepared and certified by
a duly qualified and licensed state professional engineer; and
      (2)   The projected costs for the suggested improvements, which shall be
based on local information for similar improvements, along with the
construction timetable for the completion of the improvements. These estimated
costs may include the costs of all labor and materials, the cost of all lands,
property, rights, easements, and franchises acquired, financing charges,
interest prior to and during construction and for one year after completion of
construction, cost of plans and specifications, surveys of estimated costs and
of revenues, costs of engineering and legal services, and all other expenses
necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the
construction or reconstruction.
   (D)   Within 15 working days of receipt of an application for a
determination of credit, the Village Administrator shall determine if the
proposal is complete. If it is determined that the proposed credit agreement is
not complete, the Village Administrator shall send a written statement to the
applicant outlining the deficiencies. The Village Administrator shall take no
further action on the proposed credit agreement until all deficiencies have
been corrected.
   (E)   Once the Village Administrator determines the credit agreement is
complete, the Village Administrator shall, within 15 working days, review the
application and shall recommend the proposed credit agreement for approval by
the Village Council if it is determined that the proposed capital improvement
is consistent with the capital improvements in the Comprehensive Plan for the
village's infrastructure system and the proposed costs for the suggested
improvements are professionally acceptable and fairly assess the cost for the
capital improvement.
   (F)   Any person may appeal the Village Administrator decision on any credit
agreement he or she submits by filing a petition with the Village Council
within ten days of a decision by the Village Administrator.
(Ord. 5-97, passed 1-7-1997; Ord. 17-2017, passed 2-21-2017)
§ 35.091 ESTABLISHMENT OF IMPACT FEE USE DISTRICTS.
   There is hereby established an Impact Fee Use District as improvement
benefit district for the village in accordance with the boundaries set forth
for Impact Fee Use District on Exhibit A attached to Ord. 17-2017, which map is
hereby adopted by reference as if set out in full herein. The funds collected
pursuant to this subchapter shall be expended in the appropriate road and water
Impact Fee Use District from which they were collected in accordance with the
provisions of §
35.092.
(Ord. 5-97, passed 1-7-1997; Ord. 21-97, passed 5-19-1997; Ord. 21-02, passed
7-15-2002; Ord. 17-2017, passed 2-21-2017)
§ 35.092 USE OF FUNDS COLLECTED.
   (A)   The funds collected pursuant to this subchapter shall be used solely
for the purpose of acquisition, expansion, and development of the public
facilities both past and future determined to be needed to serve new growth and
development, including but not limited to:
      (1)   Design and construction plan preparation;
      (2)   Right-of-way and easement acquisition;
      (3)   Construction of through lanes and turn lanes;
      (4)   Construction of bridges;
      (5)   Construction of drainage facilities in conjunction with roadway
construction;
      (6)   Purchase and installation of traffic signalization;
      (7)   Construction of curbs, sidewalks, medians, and shoulders.
      (8)   Construction of water mains, storage tanks, and appurtenances; and
   (B)   Each of the road and water impact fees collected by the village shall
be kept in individual funds and separate from other funds of the village.
   (C)   A Road Impact Fee Fund shall be established to ensure that the fees
collected pursuant to this subchapter are appropriately earmarked and spent for
the capital expansion of the village's road system in the Impact Fee Use
Districts established in §
35.091.
   (D)   The fees collected for the water system and past fees collected for
the sewer system under prior versions of this subchapter shall be placed in the
Village Water Account to reimburse said account for past expenditures on the
water infrastructure including the distribution lines and water reservoir(s).
   (E)   Any funds in each of the accounts on deposit not immediately necessary
for expenditure shall be invested in interest bearing accounts. All income
derived from these investments shall be retained in the appropriate trust
account.
   (F)   Funds withdrawn from these accounts must be used solely in accordance
with the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 5-97, passed 1-7-1997; Ord. 17-2017, passed 2-21-2017)
§ 35.093 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Any impact fee collected may be returned to the fee payer if the
approved development is cancelled due to non-commencement of construction
before the funds have been spent or encumbered. Refunds may be made in
accordance with this section, provided the present owner files a petition for a
refund within six months from the date of non-commencement.
   (B)   Impact fees collected shall be encumbered for the construction of
facilities within ten years of the date of collection.
   (C)   (1)   In the absence of a fee agreement and in the event impact fees
are not encumbered within ten years from the date of collection, the village
shall refund the amount of the fee along with accrued interest at a rate of 3%
to the owner of the land for which the fee was collected. For purposes of
refunds, the owner of the land on which an impact fee was paid shall be the
owner of record at the time that the refund is paid.
      (2)   The owner of the property on which an impact fee has been paid
shall have standing to sue for a refund under the provision of this section;
however, no action shall be commenced after one year after the date of
expiration of the required encumbrance date.
   (D)   (1)   The present owner of land may apply for a refund of previously
paid impact fees.
      (2)   The application for a refund shall include the following
information:
         (a)   A notarized sworn statement that the fee payer or his or her
predecessor in interest paid the impact fee for the property and the amount
paid;
         (b)   A copy of the dated receipt issued by the village for payment of
the fee;
         (c)   A certified copy of the latest recorded deed for the property;
and
         (d)   A copy of the most recent ad valorem tax bill.
   (E)   Within 15 working days of receipt of the application, the Village
Administrator shall determine if the application is complete. If the Village
Administrator determines the refund application is not complete, he or she
shall send a written statement specifying the deficiencies by mail to the
person submitting the refund application. Unless the deficiencies are
corrected, the Village Administrator shall take no further action on the refund
application.
   (F)   When the Village Administrator determines the refund application is
complete, the Village Administrator shall, within 15 working days, review the
application and shall recommend the proposed refund for approval by the Village
Council if her or she determines the fee payer has paid an impact fee which the
village has not spent or encumbered within ten years from the date the fees
were paid.
   (G)   Any fee payer may appeal the Village Administrator's decision on a
refund application by filing a petition with the Village Council within ten
days of a decision by the Village Administrator.
(Ord. 5-97, passed 1-7-1997; Ord. 17-2017, passed 2-21-2017)
§ 35.094 FORMULA FACTORS TO BE REASSESSED EVERY TWO YEARS.
   Every two years the village shall undertake a review of the factors used to
calculate the impact fee schedule in §
35.088 and shall revise the schedule to accurately reflect current factors in
the village at the time of the reassessment.
(Ord. 5-97, passed 1-7-1997; Ord. 17-2017, passed 2-21-2017)
INCOME TAX
   Editor’s Note: The income tax regulations contained in §§ 35.125 through
35.136 are effective through December 31, 2015. For regulations effective
beginning January 1, 2016, see
Chapter 39.
§ 35.125 TITLE AND CITATIONS.
   An ordinance, codified herein, to amend and revise the Income Tax Ordinance
for the Village of Bellville, Ohio, originally adopted under Ordinance 37-68
and revised by Ordinance 32-72 and to amend §§
35.126(B),
35.127(D),
35.128(A),
35.129(A) and
35.133 in keeping with Ohio House Bill 477, to provide for the continued levy
of the income tax on salaries, wages, commissions and other compensation, and
on net profits; new definitions, requirements for return and payment of tax;
exceptions to the income tax; declarations of income tax due; credit for tax
paid to other municipalities; extension requests; allocation of net profits;
requirements for consolidated returns; amending an income tax return;
collection of unpaid taxes; provisions for refunds and overpayment of income
taxes; provide for a Department of Taxation; the establishment of interest and
penalty assessments; the establishment of penalties and violations of the
income tax ordinance; request for reports and informational returns by
landlords; allocation of funds; duties of the Fiscal Officer; the
confidentiality of tax records; establishing a Board of Review; and declaring
an emergency.
(Ord. 33-01, Art. 1, passed 12-3-2001)
§ 35.126 CONSTRUCTION OF LANGUAGE; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Construction of language. The following rules of construction apply to
the text of this subchapter:
      (1)   The particular shall control the general.
      (2)   The word “shall” is always mandatory and not discretionary. The
word “may” is permissive.
      (3)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; and used
in the singular number shall include the plural, and the plural the singular,
unless this subchapter clearly indicates the contrary.
      (4)   Unless the context clearly indicates the contrary, where a
regulation involves two or more items, conditions, provisions, or events
connected by the conjunction “and,” “or,” “either...or,” the conjunction shall
be interpreted as follows:
         (1)   “And” indicates that all connected items, conditions,
provisions, or events shall apply.
         (2)   “Or” indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions,
or events may apply singularly or in combination.
         (3)   “Either.. .or” indicates that the connected items, conditions,
provisions or events shall apply singularly but not in combination.
      (5)   The masculine shall include the feminine and the neuter.
      (6)   Terms not herein defined shall have the meaning customarily
assigned to them.
      (7)   The Village of Bellville Income Tax Ordinance Number 33-01, enacted
on December 3, 2001 and any amendments or supplements thereto shall hereinafter
be referred to as “this subchapter.”
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ASSOCIATION. A partnership, limited partnership, limited liability
partnership and limited liability corporation, subchapter S corporation, or any
other form of unincorporated business or enterprise, owned by two or more
persons. The term ASSOCIATION and UNINCORPORATED BUSINESS are interchangeable
terms.
      BOARD OF INCOME TAX APPEAL. The board created by and constituted as
provided in § 35.133 below.
      BUSINESS. Any enterprise, activity, profession or undertaking of any
nature conducted for profit or ordinarily conducted for profit; including but
not limited to the renting or leasing of property, real or personal; whether by
an individual, partnership, fiduciary, proprietorship, limited partnership,
corporation, trust, association or any other entity.
      BUSINESS ALLOCATION PERCENTAGE FORMULA. The average percentage arrived at
by applying the formula set forth in §
35.127(C) below. The BUSINESS ALLOCATION PERCENTAGE FORMULA, is the percentage
that may be applied to determine the portion of the total net profits of a
taxpayer to be allocated as having been made within the meaning of the
provisions of this subchapter.
      BUSINESS DEDUCTIONS. The ordinary and necessary expenses actually
incurred in the operation of the business to the same extent allowed under
federal guidelines unless specifically allowed or disallowed in this
subchapter.
      CALENDAR YEAR. An accounting period of 12 months or less ending on
December 31.
      CORPORATION. A corporation that has made an election under Subchapter S
of Chapter 1, of Subtitle A, of the Internal Revenue Code for its taxable year.
      DISHONORED CHECKS. Any check received in payment of taxes, penalty,
interest or service charge that is returned unpaid by the bank or other
financial institution.
      DOMICILE.
         (a)   The place where a person lives, or a permanent legal home a
person intends to use for an indefinite or unlimited period, and to which, when
absent, intends to return.
         (b)   The word “residence” does not necessarily mean the domicile of a
taxpayer. A taxpayer may have more than one residence but not more than one
domicile. In the event of a business or association, the DOMICILE is that place
declared to be the center where the principal affairs or primary functions of
the business are conducted.
      EMPLOYEE. One who works for wages, salary, commission or other type of
compensation in the service and under the control of an employer. The word
EMPLOYEE shall not be construed to mean any subcontractor or independent
contractor.
      EMPLOYEES IN THE VILLAGE OF BELLVILLE All employees regularly connected
with or working out of a place of business maintained by the taxpayer in
Bellville.
      EMPLOYER. An individual, partnership, association, corporation,
governmental body, unit or agency or any other entity whether or not organized
for profit that employs one or more persons on a salary, wage, commission or
other compensation basis.
      FISCAL OFFICER. The individual charged with the responsibility of
managing the fiscal affairs of the village, including the collection of all tax
imposed by this subchapter.
      FISCAL YEAR. The accounting period of 12 months or less ending on any day
other than December 31.
      GENERIC FORM. An electronic or paper form designed for reporting
estimated village income taxes and annual income tax liability that is not
prescribed by the village for the reporting of the village's tax on income.
      GROSS RECEIPTS. The total income from any source whatsoever before any
deductions, exceptions or credits are claimed, and which are required to be
included in the tax return.
      INCOME FROM A PASS-THROUGH ENTITY. Partnership income of partners,
distributive shares of shareholders of an S corporation, membership interests
of members of a limited liability company, or other distributive or
proportionate ownership shares of other pass-through entities.
      LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY. A limited liability company formed under R.C.
Chapter 1705 or under the laws of another state.
      NET PROFITS. The net gain from the operation of a business, profession,
enterprise or other activity, after provision for all ordinary and necessary
expenses either paid or accrued in accordance with the accounting system used
by the taxpayer for federal income tax purposes without deduction of taxes
imposed by this subchapter, federal, state or other taxes based on income; and
in the case of an association, without deduction of compensation paid to
partners, and other owners; and otherwise adjusted to the requirements of this
subchapter. Ordinary income resulting from the gain on sale of property used in
a trade or business shall be included in the calculation of NET PROFITS.
      NON-RESIDENT. A person domiciled outside the village.
      NON-RESIDENT UNINCORPORATED BUSINESS ENTITY. An unincorporated business
entity not having an office or place of business within the village.
      ORDINANCE. Ordinance 33-01 enacted by the Council of the village on
December 3, 2001, and any amendments or supplements thereto.
      OTHER PAYER. Any person that pays an individual any item included in the
taxable income of the individual, other than the individual's employer or that
employer's agent.
      OWNER. A partner of a partnership, a shareholder of an S corporation, a
member of a limited liability company, or other person with an ownership
interest in a pass-through entity.
      PASS-THROUGH ENTITY. A partnership, S corporation, limited liability
company, or any other class of entity the income or profits from which are
given pass-through treatment under the Internal Revenue Code.
      PENSIONS. Either qualified or non-qualified retirement plans, as defined
under federal tax regulations, designed to provide primarily for the retirement
income of an employee, in which contributions to the plan are made by the
employee, the employer or both during the period of employment.
      PERSON.
         (a)   Any natural person, corporation, partnership, association or
fiduciary.
         (b)   Whenever used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty,
the term PERSON when applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the
parties or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officer
thereof; and any employee having control, supervision or charged with the
responsibility of tax law compliance on the part of a natural person,
corporation, partnership, association or fiduciary.
      PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any bona-fide office other than a mere statutory
office, factory, warehouse, or other space which is occupied and used by the
taxpayer in carrying on any business activity individually or through one or
more regular employees regularly in attendance.
      PROFESSIONAL ATHLETE. A person who is paid for participation in an
individual or team sport and also for a single or multiple appearances at an
event.
      PROFESSIONAL ENTERTAINER. A person who is paid for performing song,
dance, music, comedy, drama and other arts either as an individual or as a
member of a group for a single or multiple performances or appearances.
      PROMOTERS OF PROFESSIONAL ENTERTAINMENT OR SPORTS EVENTS AND THEIR
EMPLOYEES. A person or persons who are responsible for planning, making
arrangements, or providing services to a professional entertainer or
professional athlete.
      REAL PROPERTY. Farm, residential, commercial or industrial property and
any and all other types of real estate.
      RENTAL INCOME. Payments received from the use or occupancy of property.
      RENTED UNITS. Any unit of real property which is subject to a rental
agreement, whether oral or written, for residential, commercial or industrial
purposes.
      RESIDENT INDIVIDUAL. Any individual as defined by this subchapter
domiciled inside the village or whose usual place of abode is located in the
village.
      RESIDENT UNINCORPORATED BUSINESS ENTITY. An unincorporated business
entity having an office or place of business located inside the village.
      RETURN PREPARER. Any person other than a taxpayer that is authorized by a
taxpayer to complete or file an income tax return, report, or other document
for or on behalf of the taxpayer.
      SALES MADE IN THE VILLAGE. Means the following;
         (a)   All sales of tangible personal property delivered inside the
village regardless of where title passes if shipped from a stock of goods
within the village;
         (b)   All sales of tangible personal property which is delivered
within the village regardless of where title passes even though transported
from a point outside the village if the taxpayer is regularly engaged through
its own employees in the solicitation or promotion of sales inside the village,
and the sales result from such solicitation or promotion;
         (c)   All sales of tangible personal property shipped from a place
inside the village to purchasers outside the Village regardless of where title
passes if the taxpayer is not, through its own employees, regularly engaged in
the solicitation or promotion of sales at the place where delivery is made.
      SUBCHAPTER. Ordinance 33-01 enacted by the Council of the village on
December 3, 2001, and any amendments or supplements thereto.
      TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The person executing the duties of the Fiscal Officer
in regards to the collection and enforcement of the village income tax.
      TAXABLE INCOME. Salaries, wages, commissions and other compensation,
bonuses, incentive payments, fees and tips or other income paid, accrued or
deferred, paid by an employer or employers, including sick, vacation and
personal leave pay and before deduction, including income from lottery winnings
and prize money in the amount of more than $500 won on or after January 1,
2001, distributions from associations and/or net profits from the operation of
a business, profession or other enterprise or activity including rental income.
      TAXABLE YEAR. The calendar year or fiscal year, used as the basis on
which the net profits or other taxable income are to be computed under this
subchapter and, in the case of a return for a fractional part of a year, the
period for which the return is required to be made. In the case of an
individual, the taxable year shall be a calendar year.
      TAXPAYER. Any person as defined in division (B) from to ASSOCIATION to
OWNER, defined above, required to file a return or pay a tax pursuant to this
subchapter.
      VILLAGE. the Village of Bellville, Ohio.
(Ord. 33-01, Art. 2, passed 12-3-2001)
§ 35.127 INCOME TAX LEVY.
   (A)   Mandatory registration.
      (1)   Each new resident of the village shall register with the Department
of Taxation of the village to become subject to the village income tax within
30 days of residence in the village.
      (2)   All employers, contractors or subcontractors who do work in the
village shall register with the Fiscal Officer when work begins and shall
present him or her with a list of all employees, subcontractors or others who
may do work for them that are not already registered with the village or whose
profits, wages or earnings are not presently subject to withholding of the
village income tax.
      (3)   On January 1, 2002 and on every year thereafter, all landlords who
rent property or dwellings in the village must submit an up-to-date list of
their tenants to the Fiscal Officer. This list is not required if the tenants
are responsible for their own water utility payments.
      (4)   Any person who violates this division shall be subject to the
provision of §§ 35.134 and
35.999 below.
   (B)   Authorization of income tax levy. To provide funds for the purpose of
general municipal operations, a municipal income tax at the rate of 1% is
hereby levied upon the following:
      (1)   Resident and non-resident employees.
         (a)   On the taxable income earned by resident individuals.
         (b)   On the net taxable income earned by nonresident individuals for
work done or services performed or rendered in the village.
      (2)   Resident business entities.
         (a)   1.   On the portion attributable to operations inside the
village of the net business profits of all resident associations,
unincorporated businesses, professions or other entities, conducted by resident
individuals in the village.
            2.   The tax imposed on resident associations or other
unincorporated entities owned by two or more individuals is upon the entities
rather than the individual owners or members thereof. Losses from the operation
of such activities required filing, as a separate entity may not be used to
offset wages, salaries, or other types of employee's earnings or other
compensation.
         (b)   On a resident partner or owner share of the taxable income
earned during the effective period of this subchapter, of a resident
association or other unincorporated entity not attributable to operations
within the village and not levied against such associations or other
unincorporated entity.
      (3)   Non-resident business entities.
         (a)   1.   On the portion attributable to operations inside the
village of the net business profits earned by all non-resident associations,
unincorporated businesses, professions or other entities, conducted by non-
resident individuals, whether or not the association or other unincorporated
entity has a place of business in the village.
            2.   The tax imposed on non-resident associations or other non-
resident unincorporated entities owned by two or more persons is upon the
entities rather than the individual owners or members thereof. Losses from the
operation of such activities, required to file as a separate entity, may not be
used to offset wages, salaries, or other types of employee's earnings or other
compensation.
         (b)   On a resident partner or owner share of the net business profits
during the effective period of this subchapter, of a non-resident association
or other unincorporated entity not attributable to operations within the
village and not levied against such association or other unincorporated entity.
   (C)   Business allocation percentage formula.
      (1)   A non-resident business entity doing business both inside and
outside the village may at its option use and apply one of the following
business allocation percentage formulas for the purpose of computing village
income taxes:
         (a)   Records of net profits are known. Where the books and records of
a taxpayer conducting a business or profession both inside and outside the
boundaries of the village discloses with reasonable accuracy the percentage of
its net profit attributable to that part of the business or profession
conducted inside the boundaries of the village, then only that portion shall be
considered as having taxable sites in the village for purposes of village
income taxes.
         (b)   Records of net profit are unknown.
            1.   In the absence of such books and records, the following
formula may be used to compute the share of the total net profits earned by a
business or profession from activities conducted both inside and outside the
boundaries of the village that is taxable under this subchapter:
 
   RTP + P + S                percentage to be applied to the total net
(number of business locations) = profits of non-resident business
 
            2.   The steps described below should be followed to reach a
determination of the income tax owed by a company using the business allocation
percentage method.
               a.   Step1: (RTP) = real and tangible personal property.
                  i.   Compute the average net book value of the real and
tangible personal property owned or used during the taxable period to the
average net book value of all of the real and tangible personal property owned
or used during the same period, wherever situated.
                  ii.   Real property also includes property rented or leased
by the taxpayer and the value of the property shall be determined by
multiplying the annual rental by eight.
                  iii.   Example 1: (RTP) Real and tangible property.
Corporation having a place of business in Bellville, Paduca and Honolulu:
Total real and tangible personal property:
Bellville, Paduca and Honolulu: $500,000
Bellville only
Rented property                 $4,160*
Owned property                  $195,840
Subtotal                        $200,000      $200,000 or 40%
*Rental payments in Bellville   $520 annually
520 x 8 equals $4,160
 
               b.   Step 2: P = payroll.
                  i.   Compute the percentage of the wages, salaries and other
compensation paid during the taxable period to employees for services performed
in the village are of the total wages, salaries and other compensation paid
during the same period to employed persons, wherever their services are
performed.
                  ii.   Example 2: (P) Payroll.
 
Same corporation having a place of business in Bellville, Paduca and
Honolulu:
Total payroll:
Bellville, Paduca and Honolulu: $200,000
Bellville only:                 $$60,000 or 30%
 
               c.   Step 3: (SR) = sales receipts.
                  i.   Compute the percentage of the gross receipts from sales
made and services performed during the taxable period in the village are of the
total gross receipts during the same period from sales and services, wherever
made or performed.
                  ii.   Example 3 (SR) sales receipts.
 
Same corporation having a place of business in Bellville, Paduca and
Honolulu:
Total sales receipts:
Bellville, Paduca and Honolulu $400,000
Belville only                  $100,000 or 25%
 
            The business allocation of 31.6% was arrived at as shown below:
 
(RTP) 40% + (P) 30% + (SR) 25% = 31.6%
3
 
               d.   Step 4: Taxable net profit. The total net profit derived
from business activities conducted inside and outside the village is then
multiplied by the business allocation percentage figure to arrive at taxable
net profit.
 
Total net profit at all three locations $45,000
Business allocation percentage          .316
Taxable net profit                      $14,220
 
               e.   Step 5: Income tax to be paid. The total tax to be paid is
determined by multiplying the taxable net profits by the village tax rate of
1%.
 
Taxable net profit                    $14,220
Village income tax rage               .01
Village tax to be paid by corporation $142.20
 
      (2)   In the event the foregoing business allocation formula does not
produce an equitable result, another basis may, be substituted, under uniform
regulations, so as to produce an equitable result.
   (D)   Exemptions.
      (1)   The following tax imposed by this subchapter shall not be levied
on:
         (a)   Military pay or allowance of the Armed Forces of the United
States.
         (b)   The income of tax-exempt religious, fraternal, charitable,
scientific, literary, or educational institutions to the extent that such
income is derived from tax-exempt real estate, tax-exempt tangible or
intangible property or tax-exempt activities.
         (c)   Social security benefits, unemployment, insurance benefits,
welfare benefits and qualified pensions (as defined by the Internal Revenue
Service) paid as a result of retirements.
         (d)   Earnings and income in the village of all persons under 18 years
of age, whether residents or non-residents.
         (e)   Compensation paid to an individual for personal services
performed within the village, if the individual does not reside in the village,
performs such personal services in the village on 12 or fewer days in the
calendar year, and, if the individual is an employee, the principal place of
business of the individual’s employer is located outside the village. This
division does not apply to professional entertainers or professional athletes
or to promoters of professional entertainment or sports events and their
employees, as reasonably defined by the village.
      (2)   An exemption form shall be filed annually with the Fiscal Officer
on a form prescribed by the Fiscal Officer. In the case of a retired person
this exemption form shall be filed once every three years. This exemption form
shall be made a part of the annual tax return of the village.
(Ord. 33-01, Art. 3, passed 12-3-2001)
§ 35.128 COLLECTION AT SOURCE.
   (A)   Collection of tax.
      (1)   Each employer doing business inside the village who employs one or
more individuals on a salary, wage, commission or other compensation basis,
shall deduct at the time of payment of such salary, wage, commission or other
compensation, the tax at the rate of 1% per annum on the gross salaries, wages
commissions, or other compensation due by the employer to the employee and
shall, following the schedules as specified in this section, make a return
showing the amount of taxes so deducted and a record of payment showing that
all taxes deducted during the periods required have been paid to the village
according to the payment schedule prescribed in division (C), below.
      (2)   It is the duty of each resident employer (as defined in §
35.126) who employs one or more persons on a salary, wage, commission, or other
compensation basis, to deduct from compensation paid to any employee subject to
this subchapter, the tax of 1% of the salary, wage, bonus, incentive payment,
commission or other compensation due by the employer to the employee. The tax
shall be deducted by the employer from:
         (a)   All compensation paid to employees who are non-residents of the
village for services rendered, work performed, or other activities engaged in,
to earn such compensation within the village; and
         (b)   From the gross amount of all salaries, wages, bonuses, incentive
payments, commissions or other form of compensation paid to employees who are
residents of the village, regardless of the place where the services are
rendered.
      (3)   All employers who or which maintain an office or other place of
business in the village are required to make the collections and deductions
specified in this section, regardless of the fact that the services on account
of which any particular deduction is required as to residents of the village,
were performed at a place of business of any such employer situated outside the
village.
      (4)   The mere fact that the tax is not withheld will not relieve the
employee of the responsibility of filing a return and paying the tax on the
compensation received.
      (5)   Commissions and fees paid to professional people, brokers, and
others that are independent contractors and not employees of the payer are not
subject to withholding or collection of the tax at the source. The taxpayers
must in all instances file returns and pay the tax pursuant to the provisions
of this division (A).
      (6)   (a)   In the case of employees who are non-residents of this
village, the amount to be deducted is 1% of the compensation paid with respect
to personal services rendered in this village.
         (b)   Where a non-resident receives compensation for personal services
rendered or performed partly within and partly outside this village, the
withholding employer shall deduct, withhold and remit that portion of the
compensation, which is earned within this village in accordance with the
following rules of apportionment.
            1.   If the non-resident is a salesman, agent or other employee
whose compensation on the basis of commissions depends directly on the volume
of business transacted by him or her, the deducting and withholding shall
attach to the portion of the entire compensation the volume of business
transacted by the employee within the village bears to the volume of business
transacted by him or her within and outside the village.
            2.   The deducting and withholding of personal service compensation
of all other employees (including officers of corporations) shall attach to the
portion of the personal service compensation of the employee which the total
number of working days employed within the village bears to the total number of
working days employed within and outside the village.
            3.   If it is impossible to apportion the earnings as provided
above, because of the peculiar nature of the service of the employee; or the
unusual basis of compensation; apportionment shall be based on the facts and
the tax deducted and withheld accordingly.
            4.   The occasional entry into the village of a non-resident
employee who performs the duties for which he or she is employed entirely
outside the village, but enters the village for the purpose of reporting,
receiving instructions, accounting, etc., incidental to his or her duties
outside the village, shall not be deemed to take such employee out of the class
of those rendering their services entirely outside the village.
      (7)   An employer shall withhold the tax on the full amount of any
advances made to an employee on account of commissions (whether by the way of
drawing account or otherwise, see division (A)(8) below, where the advances are
in excess of commissions earned.
      (8)   An employer required to withhold the tax on compensation paid to an
employee shall, in determining the amount on which the tax is to be withheld,
ignore any amount allowed and paid by the employer to the employee for expense
necessarily and actually incurred by the employee in the actual performance of
his or her services, provided, that the expense must be of the kind and in the
amount recognized and allowed as deductible expense for federal income tax
purposes.
      (9)   The employer shall be liable for the payment of the required tax to
be deducted and withheld, whether or not the taxes have in fact been withheld.
      (10)   This section shall not require any nonresident employer, agent of
such an employer, or other payer that is not situated in the village to deduct
and withhold taxes from the taxable income of an individual unless the total
amount of tax required to be deducted and withheld for the village on account
of all the employer's employees or all of the other payer's payees exceeds $150
for a calendar year beginning on or after that date.
      (11)   If the total amount of tax required to be deducted and withheld on
account of all of the nonresident employer's employees or all of the other
payer's payees exceeds $150 for a calendar year beginning on or after January
1, 2001, the village may require the employer, agent, or other payer to deduct
and withhold taxes in each ensuing year even if the amount required to be
deducted and withheld in each of those ensuing years is $150 or less, except as
otherwise provided in division (B) of this section.
      (12)   If a nonresident employer, agent of such an employer, or other
payer that is not situated in the village is required to deduct and withhold
taxes for an ensuing year under division (A) of this section, and the total
amount of tax required to be deducted and withheld under that subsection in
each of three consecutive ensuing years is $150 or less, the village shall not
require the employer, agent, or other payer to deduct and withhold taxes in any
year following the last of those consecutive years unless the amount required
to be deducted and withheld in any such following year exceeds $150.
   (B)   Employer responsible for collecting and holding the tax. Every
employer or officer of a corporation is deemed to be a trustee for the village
in collecting and holding the tax required under this subchapter to be withheld
and the funds so collected by the withholdings are deemed to be trust funds.
The officer or employee having control or supervision or charged with the
responsibility of filing the return and making payment is personally liable for
failure to file the return or pay the tax due as required by this division. The
officer or employee shall also be personally liable for the failure to return
or pay the tax as well as any related interest and penalties. The dissolution
of a corporation does not discharge the officer or employee's liability for a
prior failure of the corporation to pay the tax due.
   (C)   Payment schedule.
      (1)   The deduction from salaries, wages and other compensation required
to be made by employers are to begin with compensation earned on and after
October 1, 1968. The first return and payment required to be made on account of
such deductions shall be made, filed and paid to the Fiscal Officer between
January 1, 1969 and January 31, 1969.
      (2)   Each employer within the village who employees one or more persons
on a salary, wage, commission or other compensation basis shall deduct monthly,
or more often than monthly, and at the time of the payment of such salary,
wage, commission, or other compensation due by the employer to the employee and
shall make a return and pay to the Fiscal Officer the amount of taxes so
deducted as follows if the total monthly withholding tax is less than $100:
         (a)   For the three months ending March 31, on or before April 30;
         (b)   For the three months ending June 30, on or before July 31;
         (c)   For the three months ending September 30, on or before October
31;
         (d)   For the three months ending December 31, on or before the
following January 31.
      (3)   The reporting periods referred to in division (C)(2)are elastic to
this extent: The employer will use the same quarterly accounting period for
reporting taxes withheld under the Bellville Income Tax Ordinance as he or she
uses in reporting quarterly taxes withheld to the federal government.
      (4)   Effective January 1, 2002 all employers withholding more than $100
per month shall make a return and pay to the Fiscal Officer the amount of tax
so deducted on a monthly basis by the last day of the month following the month
the moneys were withheld.
      (5)   The return shall be on a form prescribed by and obtainable from the
Fiscal Officer and shall be subject to the rules and regulations prescribed
therefor by the Fiscal Officer.
      (6)   In addition to the provisions set forth in this division any person
making compensation to an individual or independent contractor shall report the
compensation to the Income Tax Administrator.
      (7)   Every employer doing business inside the village on a temporary
basis shall pay to the village all income taxes withheld or required to be
deducted and withheld on a monthly basis, regardless of the amount of taxes
involved. The payment shall be made to the village on or before the last day of
the month following the month subject to withholding. An employer is DOING
BUSINESS WITHIN THE VILLAGE ON A TEMPORARY BASIS when the employer maintains a
place of business in the village or does business within the village for a
period during which the employer does not expect to exceed one year.
      (8)   For adjustment of errors in returns of tax withheld by employers,
see division (D) of this section and § 35.130(B) below.
   (D)   Reconciliation of tax withheld.
      (1)   Each employer, on or before February 28, shall file with the
Department of Taxation of the village an information return (Village of
Bellville Reconciliation of Tax Withheld) for each employee from whom income
tax has been or should have been withheld showing:
         (a)   Name and address of each employee;
         (b)   Total amount of salary, wages, commissions, tips and their
compensation paid to the employee during the year; and
         (c)   W-2 Form showing the amount of municipal income tax withheld
from each employee.
      (2)   In lieu of submitting form W-2s, an alternative method of reporting
must be approved by the Fiscal Officer or his or her delegate.
      (3)   If an error has been made for or against the employer, the error
may be corrected in the next withholding period. If the error occurred in the
last withholding period the correction may be made when the employer files a
reconciliation of tax withheld form.
   (E)   Reports and informational returns by landlords. The Fiscal Officer may
request a roster of the names, addresses and social security numbers of persons
residing in rental units or mobile home parks. Every owner of three or more
rental units and every owner or operator of a mobile home park may be requested
to submit the listing. The listing is to include any changes during the year.
The Department of Taxation shall file the roster of persons residing in rental
units or mobile home parks upon request.
   (F)   Payments by self-employed individual, contractor or sub-contractor.
Any person who compensates a self-employed individual, contractor or
subcontractor shall report the payment. The information required shall include
the name, address and social security number (or Federal Identification
Number), and the amount of compensation. Federal Form 1099 may be submitted in
lieu of the above reporting requirements. The information must be filed
annually with the Department of Taxation of the village on or before February
28.
   (G)   Monthly and quarterly remittance reports required. All withholding
payment remittances shall be monthly and quarterly as determined by the
criteria set forth in this section, until such time that monthly payments will
be required as determined by the Fiscal Officer.
(Ord. 33-01, Art. 4, passed 12-3-2001)
§ 35.129 TAX FILING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Filing of return and payment of tax.
      (1)   Filing requirements.
         (a)   Each taxpayer whose earnings or profits are subject to the
Bellville Municipal Income Tax, shall on or before April 15 of each year, make
and file a return to the Tax Commissioner on a form provided for that purpose.
The completed form shall set forth the aggregate amount of taxable income
earned together with such other information as may be required by the Tax
Commissioner.
         (b)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section, any
taxpayer may file a generic income tax return, report or other document in lieu
of the forms prescribed by this section provided the return, report or other
document when completed and filed contains all of the information required to
be submitted on the prescribed forms and the taxpayer or return preparer filing
the generic form otherwise complies with this section and the rules and
regulations of the Tax Administrator.
         (c)   1.   Any taxpayer that has requested an extension for filing a
federal income tax return may request an extension for the filing of a village
income tax return. The taxpayer shall make the request by filing a copy of the
taxpayer's request for a federal filing extension with the Fiscal Officer. The
request for an extension shall be filed no later than the last day for filing
the income tax return as prescribed by this subchapter. The village shall grant
such request for extension for a period not less than the period of the federal
extension request.
            2.   The village may deny a taxpayer's request for extension only
if the taxpayer fails to timely file the request, fails to file a copy of the
request for the federal extension, owes the village any delinquent income tax
or any penalty, interest, assessment, or other charge for the late payment or
nonpayment of income tax, or has failed to file any required income tax return,
report, or other related document for a prior tax period. The granting of an
extension for filing the village income tax return does not extend the last
date for paying the tax without penalty unless the village grants an extension
of that date.
         (d)   1.   A taxpayer on a fiscal year accounting basis for federal
income tax purposes shall, beginning with the first fiscal year in which any
part of the year falls within the effective period of this subchapter, file a
return within 120 days from the end of the fiscal year, or period.
            2.   When the due date of a return falls on a weekend, or observed
holiday, the due date for filing the return shall fall on the next business day
following the original due date of the return.
         (e)   Every taxpayer shall retain all records necessary to compute tax
liability for a period of five years from the date the return is filed or the
taxes required to be withheld are paid.
      (2)   Payment of tax. The taxpayer shall, at the time of filing, pay to
the Tax Commissioner, the amount of taxes shown as due thereon. No payment will
be required for a tax due less than $1. However, a taxpayer shall be entitled
to a credit under the following circumstances:
         (a)   Deduction at the source. Where any portion of the tax so due
shall have been deducted at the source according to the provisions of § 35.128
(A) above; or where an income tax has been paid to another municipality
according to the provisions set forth in this division, the credit for the
amount so paid shall be deducted from the amount shown to be due and only the
balance, if any, and if $1 or greater, shall be due and payable at the time of
filing the return.
         (b)   Credit for tax paid to another municipality. Every individual
taxpayer who resides in the village who receives net profits, salaries, wages,
commissions or other compensation for work done or services performed or
rendered outside the village and has paid a municipal income tax or Joint
Economic Development District tax on the net profits, salaries, wages,
commissions or other compensation in another municipality, shall be allowed to
receive a credit upon the income tax imposed by the village equal to 50% of the
tax actually paid to the other municipality or 50% of the taxes owed to the
village, whichever is less.
         (c)   Form of credit. The credit for the amount so paid shall be
deducted from the amount shown to be due and only the balance, if any, and if
$1 or greater, shall be due and payable at the time of filing the return.
      (3)   Net loss considerations.
         (a)    The net loss from an unincorporated business activity may not
be used to offset salaries, wages, commissions or other compensation for any
given taxable year prior to December 31, 2000.
         (b)   A profit or loss from any entity required by this subchapter
filed as a separate entity cannot be offset in any manner.
         (c)   A taxpayer engaged in two or more taxable business activities to
be included in the same return, the net loss of one unincorporated business
activity may be used to offset the profits of another for purposes of arriving
at overall net profits. Where offsets of profit appear on such return, the net
loss shown on the return shall be deducted in the year incurred.
         (d)   A net operating loss sustained in any taxable year may not be
carried forward or backward to any other taxable year.
         (e)   Business expenses and/or losses may not be deducted from W-
2 wages.
      (4)   Refunds; overpayments.
         (a)   A taxpayer who has overpaid the amount of tax to which the
village is entitled under the provisions of this subchapter may have the
overpayment applied against any liability hereunder, or at the taxpayer's
election indicated on the return, the overpayment, or part thereof, shall be
refunded, if $1 and over, provided that no additional unpaid liability exists,
and the claim for refund is within three years after payment was made or the
return was due, whichever is later.
         (b)   When a taxpayer's return indicates that a refund is due and a
refund is not issued within 90 days after the Department of Taxation has
received proper verification and substantiation as to the validity of the
refund claim, interest shall be paid at the rate prescribed by R.C. § 5703.47.
A return, which indicates a claim for refund, is not deemed to be filed until
all proper verification and the Department of Taxation receives substantiation
as to the validity of the refund claim.
         (c)   1.   If, as a result of investigation conducted by the Fiscal
Officer, a return is found to be incorrect, the Fiscal Officer is authorized to
assess and collect any underpayment of tax withheld at the source or any
underpayment of tax owing by any taxpayer with respect to earnings or net
profits, or both. If no return has been filed and a tax is found to be owed,
the tax actually owing may be assessed and collected with or without the
formality of obtaining a delinquent return from the employer or taxpayer.
            2.   Should the Fiscal Officer disclose it, either as a result of
an investigation or through the medium of the filing of a claim or petition for
refund or credit, that an overpayment has been made, the Fiscal Officer will
refund such overpayment.
            3.   The employer will in every instance be required to pay the
full tax that should have been withheld, even though he or she may fail to
withhold from the employee. If too much has been withheld the excess shall be
refunded by the employer to the employee. While the employer will be expected
to maintain complete records of such adjustments with the employee, any such
adjustment made during any month will not need to be reflected in the
withholding return or disclosed by schedules or statements attached thereto.
            4.   In those cases in which too much has been withheld by an
employer from an employee and remitted to the Fiscal Officer and there has been
a termination of the employee-employer relationship, the employee may obtain an
adjustment by application to the Fiscal Officer.
      (5)   Consolidated returns.
         (a)   The Tax Administrator will accept a consolidated income tax
return from any affiliated group of corporations subject to the village tax if
that affiliated group filed for the same tax-reporting period a consolidated
return for federal income tax purposes.
         (b)   The Fiscal Officer may require additional information to
determine whether or not net profits are properly allocated to the village:
            1.   Where a corporation that carries on transactions with its
stockholders or with other corporations related by stock ownership,
interlocking directorates;
            2.   Where any person operates a division, branch, factory, office,
laboratory or other activity inside the village constituting only a portion of
its total business; or
            3.   By some other method.
         (c)   If the Fiscal Officer finds that net profits are not properly
allocated to the village by reasons of transactions with stockholders or with
other corporations related by stock ownership, interlocking directorates, or
transactions with such division, branch, factory, office, laboratory or
activity or by some other method, he or she shall make such allocation as he or
she deems appropriate to produce a fair and proper allocation of net profits to
the village.
   (B)   Late filing fee. Failure to file any required documentation in a
timely manner as prescribed in this section will be subject to a late filing
fee as prescribed in § 35.134(A) below.
(Ord. 33-01, Art. 5, passed 12-3-2001)
§ 35.130 DECLARATIONS.
   (A)   Filing a declaration.
      (1)   Every person who anticipates any taxable income which is not
subject to § 35.129, shall file a declaration setting forth the estimated
income or the estimated profit or loss from the business activity together with
the estimated tax due thereon, the declaration shall be filed on or before
April 30, 1968 and thereafter a similar declaration shall be filed for each
calendar year on or before April 30 of each ensuing year by all such taxpayers.
      (2)   The declaration shall be filed on a form furnished or obtainable
from the Department of Taxation. Credit shall be taken for village tax
withheld, if any, from any portion of the income. In addition, credit may be
taken for tax paid or to be withheld and remitted to other taxing
municipalities in accordance with § 35.129(A)(2)(b), above.
      (3)   The original declaration (or any subsequent amendment thereof) may
be increased or decreased on or before any subsequent quarterly payment date as
provided herein. A declaration may be amended at any time, provided, however,
that the unpaid balance due shall be paid in equal installments on or before
the remaining payment dates.
   (B)   Payment accompanying declaration.
      (1)   For individuals, the declaration to be filed on or before April 30,
2003, and the declaration to be filed on or before April 30 of each ensuing
year shall be accompanied by payment of at least 22-1/2% of the estimated
annual village income tax, and at least a similar amount shall be paid on or
before July 31, October 31, and January 31 of the taxable year. For calendar
year taxpayers that are not individuals, 22-1/2% by the taxpayer's federal
return filing date, 45% by June 15, 67-1/2% by September 15, and 90% by
December 15, and for fiscal year taxpayers that are not individuals, 22-1/2% by
the fifteenth day of the sixth month, 67-1/2% by the fifteenth day of the ninth
month, and 90% by the fifteenth day of the twelfth month, any amount deducted
and withheld for taxes from an individual's compensation is considered as
estimated taxes paid in equal amounts on the prescribed payment dates.
      (2)   Should it appear that the taxpayer has paid more than the amount of
the tax to which the village would be entitled, a refund of the amount so
overpaid could be made, or the same may be applied toward the declaration of
tax due for the ensuing year. Claims for refunds shall be made on forms
prescribed by and obtainable from the Income Tax Office.
      (3)   A declaration of estimated tax that is less than 90% of the tax due
as shown on the annual return shall not be considered as filed in good faith.
The difference shall be subject to interest payment as provided for in § 35.134
(A) below. An exception will be made if 100% of the prior year tax liability
has been paid in equal quarterly installments in the current year.
(Ord. 33-01, Art. 6, passed 12-3-2001; Ord. 34-02, passed 10-7-2002)
§ 35.131 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Authority of Fiscal Officer.
      (1)   Delegation of authority.
         (a)   The Fiscal Officer or his or her delegate or any designated
employee is hereby authorized to examine the books, papers, records and federal
income tax returns of any employer or of any taxpayer or person subject to, or
who the Fiscal Officer believes is subject to the provisions of this
subchapter, for the purpose of verifying the accuracy of any return made, or,
if any return was made to determine the tax due under this subchapter.
         (b)   Every such employer, supposed employer, taxpayer or supposed
taxpayer is hereby directed and required to furnish upon written request by the
Fiscal Officer or his or her delegate, or his or her duly authorized agent or
employee, the means, facilities and opportunity for making the examinations and
investigations as are hereby authorized.
      (2)   Order appearances to investigate a persons income. The Fiscal
Officer or his or her delegate is hereby authorized to order any person
presumed to have knowledge of the facts to appear before him or her and may
examine the person, under oath, concerning any income which was or would have
been returned for taxation or any transaction tending to effect the income, and
for this purpose may compel the production of books, papers, records and
federal income tax returns and the attendance of all persons before him or her,
whether as parties or witnesses, whether he or she believes the persons have
knowledge of the income or information pertinent to the inquiry.
      (3)   Institute proceedings to enforce violations. The Fiscal Officer or
his or her delegate or any authorized employee is hereby authorized to
institute procedures to determine the associations, businesses, corporations,
persons, employers and employees subject to the provisions of this subchapter,
require that all persons provide in writing to the Fiscal Officer or his or her
delegate such information as deemed necessary to provide for the enforcement of
this subchapter. The refusal to provide information requested by the Fiscal
Officer shall be deemed a violation of this subchapter, punishable as provided
in §§ 35.134(B) and
35.999 below.
   (B)   Duties of Fiscal Officer. The Fiscal Officer has the following powers
and duties:
      (1)   To collect and receive the tax levied by this subchapter in the
manner prescribed by this subchapter;
      (2)   To keep accurate records showing the payment received by the him or
her from each taxpayer and the date of payment;
      (3)   To administer and enforce the provisions of this subchapter;
      (4)   To enforce the rules and regulations relating to any matter or
thing pertaining to the administration and enforcement of the provisions of
this subchapter, including provisions for the re-examination and correction of
tax returns and tax payments;
      (5)   To determine the amount of tax appearing to be due the village from
a taxpayer that has failed, neglected or refused to file a return or has
failed, neglected or refused to pay the tax due on a return or has filed a
return which does not show the proper amount of tax due, based on any
information in his or her possession and shall send to the taxpayer a written
statement showing the amount of tax so determined together with interest and
penalties, if any.
      (6)   To arrange for the payment of unpaid taxes, interest and penalties
on a schedule of installment payments when the taxpayer has proved to the
Fiscal Officer that, due to certain hardship conditions he or she is unable to
pay the full amount of the tax due. The authorization shall not be granted
until proper returns are filed by the taxpayer for all amounts owed by him or
her under this subchapter. Failure to make any deferred payment when due shall
cause the total unpaid amount, including penalty and interest, to become
payable on demand.
(Ord. 33-01, Art. 7, passed 12-3-2001)
§ 35.132 DEPARTMENT OF TAXATION.
   (A)   Authorization. A division is hereby created within the office of the
Fiscal Officer of the village, hereafter referred to as the Department of
Taxation. The Fiscal Officer shall appoint an Income Tax Administrator. The
Income Tax Administrator shall be charged with the administration and operation
of the Department of Taxation and this subchapter, under the direction of the
Fiscal Officer.
   (B)   Allocation of income tax funds. The funds collected under § 35.128
above shall be temporarily deposited 86% to the Income Tax Fund and 14% to the
Street Funds until $6,500 is collected and applied to the Income Tax Fund after
which the Fiscal Officer shall regularly allocate and disburse the total amount
of the net available income tax receipts received as follows:
      (1)   Seventy-six percent shall be placed in the General Fund.
      (2)   Fourteen percent shall be placed in the Street Fund.
      (3)   Ten percent shall be placed in the Income Tax Fund.
(Ord. 33-01, Art. 8, passed 12-3-2001: Ord. 08-02, passed 2-18-2002; Ord. 04-
03, passed 3-17-2003; Ord. 44-07, passed 12-17-2007; Ord. 03-08, passed 1-7-
2008; Ord. 29-08, passed 9-2-2008; Ord. 08-51, passed 12-29-2008; Ord. 09-43,
passed 10-19-2009)
§ 35.133 BOARD OF INCOME TAX APPEAL; REPRESENTATION.
   (A)   (1)   A Board of Income Tax Appeal is hereby created consisting of
three citizens of the village appointed as follows:
         (a)   One citizen appointed by the Mayor.
         (b)   One citizen appointed by the Fiscal Officer.
         (c)   One citizen appointed by the other two members first appointed
by the Mayor and Fiscal Officer.
      (2)   No member shall be appointed to the Board of Income Tax Appeal who
holds other public office or appointment. The members of the Board shall serve
without pay.
   (B)   A majority of the members of the Board of Income Tax Appeal shall
constitute a quorum. The Board of Income Tax Appeal shall adopt its own
procedural rules and shall keep a record of its transactions. The Board of
Income Tax Appeal may adopt, promulgate and enforce rules and regulations
relating to any matter or thing pertaining to the administration, operation and
enforcement of the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   All hearings by the Board of Income Tax Appeal shall be conducted
privately and the provisions of § 35.135 with reference to the confidential
character of information required to be disclosed by this subchapter shall
apply to all such matters as may be heard before the Board of Income Tax
Appeal, on appeal.
   (D)   Whenever the Fiscal Officer issues a decision regarding the village
income tax obligation that is subject to appeal as provided in this section,
the Fiscal Officer shall notify the taxpayer at the same time of the taxpayer's
right to appeal the decision and of the manner in which the taxpayer may appeal
the decision.
   (E)   Any person who is aggrieved by a decision by the Fiscal Officer and
who has filed with the village the required returns or other documents
pertaining to the village income tax obligation at issue in the decision may
appeal the decision to the Board of Income Tax Appeal by filing a request with
the Board. The request shall be in writing, shall state why the decision should
be deemed incorrect or unlawful, and shall be filed within 30 days after the
Fiscal Officer issues the decision complained of.
   (F)   The Board of Income Tax Appeal shall schedule a hearing within 45 days
after receiving the request, unless the taxpayer waives a hearing. If the
taxpayer does not waive the hearing, the taxpayer may appear before the Board
and may be represented by an attorney at law, certified public accountant, or
other representative.
   (G)   The Board may affirm, reverse, or modify the Fiscal Officer's decision
or any part of that decision. The Board shall issue a decision of the appeal,
and send notice of its decision by ordinary mail to the petitioner within 15
days after issuing the decision.
   (H)   The Board of Income Tax Appeal shall adopt rules governing its
procedures and shall keep a record of its transactions. The records are not
public records available for inspection under R.C. § 149.43. Hearings requested
by a taxpayer before the Board of Income Tax Appeal are not meetings of a
public body subject to R.C. § 122.22.
(Ord. 33-01, Art. 9, passed 12-3-2001)
§ 35.134 PENALTIES AND VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Interest and penalties.
      (1)   Collection of unpaid taxes. All taxes imposed by this subchapter
shall be collectable, together with any interest and penalties, by suit, as
other debts of like amount are recoverable. All additional assessments shall be
made and all legal actions to recover municipal income taxes and penalties and
interest on municipal taxes shall be brought within three years after the tax
was due or the return filed, whichever is later.
      (2)   Interest on unpaid taxes. All taxes imposed by this subchapter,
including taxes withheld or required to be withheld from wages by an employer
and remaining unpaid after they have become due, shall bear interest on the
amount of the unpaid tax at the rate of 12% per annum computed monthly, and the
taxpayers upon whom the taxes are imposed, and the employers required by this
subchapter to deduct, withhold and pay taxes imposed by this subchapter shall
be liable, in addition thereto, to a penalty of 1% of the amount of the unpaid
tax for each month or fraction of a month or $25, or whichever is greater. Upon
recommendation of the Fiscal Officer, the Board of Review may abate interest or
penalties, or both, and upon appeal from the refusal of the Fiscal Officer to
so recommend, the Board of Review may nevertheless abate interest or penalty or
both.
      (3)   (a)   In addition to interest payments as provided in division (A)
(2) above, filings shall be deemed to be timely filed if postmarked by the due
date. Postage meter imprints are not considered to be postmarked dates.
         (b)   If the only marking on the return is the postage meter marking
then the return must be received on the first business day after the due date
of the return, otherwise penalty and interest charges shall be imposed.
      (4)   A penalty shall not be assessed on any additional tax assessment
made by the Department of Taxation when a return has been filed in good faith
and the tax paid within the time prescribed by the Department of Taxation, and
provided further that in absence of fraud, neither penalty nor interest shall
be assessed on any additional tax assessment resulting from a federal audit
providing an amended return is filed and the additional tax is paid within
three months after the final determination of the federal tax liability.
      (5)   A fee as determined by the Fiscal Officer will be charged for each
check returned to the Department of Taxation by a financial institution as
unpaid, for any reason whatsoever.
   (B)   Violations. Any person who shall:
      (1)   Fail, neglect or refuse to make any return, report or declaration
required by this subchapter; or
      (2)   Make any incomplete, false or fraudulent return; or
      (3)   Fail, neglect or refuse to pay the tax, penalties or interest
imposed by this subchapter; or
      (4)   Fail, neglect or refuse to withhold the tax from his or her
employees or remit the withholdings to the village; or
      (5)   Refuse to permit the Fiscal Officer or his or her delegate or any
duly authorized agent or employee to examine his or her books, records, papers,
state and federal income tax returns relating to the income or net profits or
payroll of a taxpayer; or
      (6)   Refuse to disclose to the Department of Taxation any information
with respect to the income or net profits of a taxpayer; or
      (7)   Fail to comply with the provisions of this subchapter or answer a
subpoena of the Department of Taxation; or
      (8)   Fail, as an individual charged with the responsibility to withhold
and remit from the wages of employees the tax to be paid to the village in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter; or
      (9)   Attempt to do anything whatsoever to avoid the payment of the whole
or any part of the tax, penalties or interest imposed by this subchapter.
(Ord. 33-01, §
10.01 and § 10.02 (part), passed 12-3-2001) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.135 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   Any information gained as a result of any returns, investigations,
hearings or verifications required or authorized by this subchapter shall be
confidential and no disclosure thereof shall be made except to municipal,
county, state or federal taxing agencies, or, except for official purposes, or
except in accordance with proper judicial order. No person shall otherwise
divulge the information.
   (B)   Each disclosure shall constitute a separate offense. In addition to
the penalty's provided for in § 35.134(A), any employee of the village who
violates the provisions of § 35.133(C) or (D) relative to disclosure of
confidential information shall be guilty of an offense which may be punishable
by immediate dismissal.
(Ord. 33-01, Art. 11, passed 12-3-2001)
§ 35.136 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The tax provided for in this subchapter shall be levied, collected and paid
with respect to the salaries, wages, commissions and other compensation, and
with respect to the net profits of businesses, professions and other
activities, earned from the effective date of the ordinance codified herein,
and shall apply to all taxes, filings and assessments effective and beginning
with tax year 2002 and ending with tax year 2015, at which time this subchapter
shall be no longer in effect for new tax liabilities but shall remain
enforceable until such time as all actions to enforce these provisions have
been completed or the maximum time for enforcement has passed. For tax years
beginning in 2016,
Chapter 39 shall govern the imposition of income taxes.
(Ord. 33-01, Art. 12, passed 12-3-2001; Ord. 33-2015, passed 11-3-2015)
§ 35.137 RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR INCOME TAX, UNDER AUTHORITY OF ORDINANCE 32-
72, ADOPTED.
   The village’s rules and regulations under authority of Ordinance 32-72 are
hereby adopted by reference as if set out in full herein. Copies are available
through village offices.
(Res. 33-72, passed 10-2-1972; Res. 28-87, passed 6-16-1987; Res. 37-87, passed
7-21-1987; Res. 46-87, passed 9-15-1987; Res. 33-00, passed 12-18-2000; Res.
12-01, passed 7-2-2001; Ord. 2012-13, passed 4-3-2012)
Editor’s note:
   Certain amending ordinances referred to Resolution 38-68 instead of
Ordinance 33-72; since Resolution 33-72 has the same relationship to Ordinance
32-72 as Resolution 38-68 does to Ordinance 37-68, those amendments have been
included here as well.
§ 35.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
35.035 through
35.046 shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100 for a first offense.
For each subsequent offense the person shall, if a corporation, be fined not
less than $250 nor more than $500, or if an individual, or a member of a
partnership, firm, or association, be fined not less than $250 nor more than
$500, or imprisoned not more than 60 days, or both, in addition to any other
penalties as imposed by this subchapter.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates any provisions of §§
35.125 through 35.136 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor in the first degree and
may be assessed penalties, including fines and/or imprisonment as set forth in
the Ohio Revised Code.
      (2)   All prosecutions under § 35.134 and this division shall begin
within the time specified in R.C. § 718.06, except in the case of fraud,
omission of 25% or more of taxable income, or failure to file a return,
prosecution may begin within six years after commission of such an offense.
      (3)   Whoever fails, neglects or refuses to make any return,
questionnaire or declaration required by §
35.125 through 35.136, or who refuses to pay village income tax, or the
penalties and interest thereon imposed by § 35.134 and this division, or who
refuses to permit the Fiscal Officer, or any duly authorized agent, to examine
the books, records and papers, or who knowingly makes any incomplete, false or
fraudulent return or who attempts to do anything whatever to avoid the payment
of the whole or any part of the village income tax, shall be fined not less
than $100 nor more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 60 days, or both on a
first offense. Upon any subsequent offense, the offender shall be imprisoned
for a period of not less than two days but not more than 60 days. The court
shall also impose a fine of not less than $100 but not more than $500 on any
subsequent offense. The failure of any employer or taxpayer to receive or
procure a return, questionnaire or declaration form shall not excuse such
person from making a return, questionnaire or declaration or from paying the
tax.
(Ord. 21-95, passed 8-21-1995; Ord. 33-01, § 10.02 (part), passed 12-3-2001)
APPENDIX A: CRA MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-21.jpg]
 
(Ord. 09-33, passed 7-6-2009)
CHAPTER 36: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
   
36.01   Public Records Management Policy, adopted
   
36.02   Publication of statistical information
Cross-reference:
   Records Commission, see §
32.01
§ 36.01 PUBLIC RECORDS MANAGEMENT POLICY, ADOPTED.
   The Public Records Management Policy attached to Resolution 31-07 is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in full herein. Copies are available through
village offices.
(Res. 31-07, passed 9-17-2007)
§ 36.02 PUBLICATION OF STATISTICAL INFORMATION.
   The Village Tax Administrator is authorized and directed to publish
statistics in a form that does not disclose information with respect to
particular taxpayers.
(Ord. 09-44, passed 11-2-2009)
CHAPTER 37: IDENTITY THEFT POLICY
Section
   
37.01   Background
   
37.02   Purpose
   
37.03   Scope
   
37.04   Policy
   
37.05   Additional identity theft prevention program: covered accounts; red
flags; suspicious documents or information
   
37.06   Responding to red flags
   
37.07   Periodic updates to plan
   
37.08   Program administration
§ 37.01 BACKGROUND.
   The Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003, being 15 U.S.C. §§
1681 et seq., an amendment to the Fair Credit Reporting Act, requires rules
regarding identity theft protection to be promulgated.
(Res. 08-43, passed 10-20-2008)
§ 37.02 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The village adopts this sensitive information policy to help protect
employees, customers, contractors, and the village from damages related to the
loss or misuse of sensitive information.
   (B)   This policy will:
      (1)   Define sensitive information;
      (2)   Describe the physical security of data when it is printed on paper;
      (3)   Describe the electronic security of data when stored and
distributed; and
      (4)   Place the village in compliance with state and federal law
regarding identity theft protection.
   (C)   This policy enables the village to protect existing customers,
reducing risk from identity fraud, and minimize potential damage to the village
from fraudulent new accounts. The program will help the village:
      (1)   Identify risks that signify potentially fraudulent activity within
new or existing covered accounts;
      (2)   Detect risks when they occur in covered accounts;
      (3)   Respond to risks to determine if fraudulent activity has occurred
and act if fraud has been attempted or committed; and
      (4)   Update the program periodically, including reviewing the accounts
that are covered and the identified risks that are part of the program.
(Res. 08-43, passed 10-20-2008)
§ 37.03 SCOPE.
   This policy and protection program applies to employees, contractors,
consultants, temporary workers, and other workers at the village, including all
personnel affiliated with third parties.
(Res. 08-43, passed 10-20-2008)
§ 37.04 POLICY.
   (A)   Sensitive information policy; definition of sensitive information.  
      (1)   SENSITIVE INFORMATION includes the following items whether stored
in electronic or printed format:
         (a)   Name, social security number, date of birth, official state or
government issued driver’s license or identification number, alien registration
number, government passport number, employer or taxpayer identification number;
         (b)   Unique biometric data, such as fingerprint, voice print, retina
or iris image, or other unique physical representation;
         (c)   Unique electronic identification number, address, or routing
code; or
         (d)   Telecommunication identifying information or access device (as
defined in 18 U.S.C. § 1029(e)).
      (2)   Village personnel are encouraged to use common sense judgment in
securing confidential information to the proper extent. Furthermore, this
section should be read in conjunction with the Ohio Public Records Law, being
R.C. §§ 149.43 et seq., and the village’s open records policy. If an employee
is uncertain of the sensitivity of a particular piece of information, he or she
should contact his or her supervisor. In the event that the village cannot
resolve a conflict between this policy and the Ohio Public Records Law, being
R.C. §§ 149.43 et seq., the village will contact the village’s legal counsel.
   (B)   Hard copy distribution. Each employee and contractor performing work
for the village will comply with the following policies.
      (1)   File cabinets, desk drawers, overhead cabinets, and any other
storage space containing documents with sensitive information will be locked
when not in use.
      (2)   Storage rooms containing documents with sensitive information and
record retention areas will be locked at the end of each workday or when
unsupervised.
      (3)   Desks, workstations, work areas, printers and fax machines, and
common shared work areas will be cleared of all documents containing sensitive
information when not in use.
      (4)   Whiteboards, dry-erase boards, writing tablets, and the like in
common shared work areas will be erased, removed, or shredded when not in use.
      (5)   Municipal records, however, may only be destroyed in accordance
with the village’s records retention policy.
   (C)   Electronic distribution. Each employee and contractor performing work
for the village will comply with the following policies.
      (1)   Internally, sensitive information may be transmitted using approved
municipal email. All sensitive information must be encrypted when stored in an
electronic format.
      (2)   Any sensitive information sent externally must be encrypted and
password protected and only to approved recipients. Additionally, a statement
such as this should be included in the email:
         “This message may contain confidential and/or proprietary information
and is intended for the person/entity to whom it was originally addressed. Any
use by others is strictly prohibited.”
(Res. 08-43, passed 10-20-2008)
Cross-reference:
   Public records policy, see
Chapter 36
§ 37.05 ADDITIONAL IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM: COVERED ACCOUNTS; RED
FLAGS; SUSPICIOUS DOCUMENTS OR INFORMATION.
   (A)   Covered accounts. A COVERED ACCOUNT includes any account that involves
or is designed to permit multiple payments or transactions. Every new and
existing customer account that meets the following criteria is covered by this
program:
      (1)   Business, personal, and household accounts for which there is a
reasonably foreseeable risk of identity theft; or
      (2)   Business, personal, and household accounts for which there is a
reasonably foreseeable risk to the safety or soundness of the village from
identity theft, including financial, operational, compliance, reputation, or
litigation risks.
   (B)   Red flags.
      (1)   The following red flags are potential indicators of fraud. Any time
a red flag, or a situation closely resembling a red flag, is apparent, it
should be investigated for verification.
         (a)   Alerts, notifications, or warnings from a consumer reporting
agency;
         (b)   A fraud or active duty alert included with a consumer report;
         (c)   A notice of credit freeze from a consumer reporting agency in
response to a request for a consumer report; or
         (d)   A notice of address discrepancy from a consumer reporting agency
as defined in § 334.82(b) of the Fairness and Accuracy in Credit Transactions
Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 1681 et seq.
      (2)   Red flags also include consumer reports that indicate a pattern of
activity inconsistent with the history and usual pattern of activity of an
applicant or customer, such as:
         (a)   A recent and significant increase in the volume of inquiries;
         (b)   An unusual number of recently established credit relationships;
         (c)   A material change in the use of credit, especially with respect
to recently established credit relationships; or
         (d)   An account that was closed for cause or identified for abuse of
account privileges by a financial institution or creditor.
   (C)   Suspicious documents.
      (1)   Documents provided for identification that appear to have been
altered or forged;
      (2)   The photograph or physical description on the identification is not
consistent with the appearance of the applicant or customer presenting the
identification;
      (3)   Other information on the identification is not consistent with
information provided by the person opening a new covered account or customer
presenting the identification;
      (4)   Other information on the identification is not consistent with
readily accessible information that is on file with the village, such as a
signature card or a recent check; or
      (5)   An application appears to have been altered or forged, or gives the
appearance of having been destroyed and reassembled.
   (D)   Suspicious personal identifying information.
      (1)   Personal identifying information provided is inconsistent when
compared against external information sources used by the village. For example:
         (a)   The address does not match any address in the consumer report;
         (b)   The social security number (SSN) has not been issued or is
listed on the Social Security Administration’s Death Master File; or
         (c)   Personal identifying information provided by the customer is not
consistent with other personal identifying information provided by the
customer. For example, there is a lack of correlation between the SSN range and
date of birth.
      (2)   Personal identifying information provided is associated with known
fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third-party sources used by the
village. For example, the address on an application is the same as the address
provided on a fraudulent application.
      (3)   Personal identifying information provided is of a type commonly
associated with fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third-party
sources used by the village. For example:
         (a)   The address on an application is fictitious, a mail drop, or a
prison; or
         (b)   The phone number is invalid or is associated with a pager or
answering service.
      (4)   The SSN provided is the same as that submitted by other persons
opening an account or other customers.
      (5)   The address or telephone number provided is the same as or similar
to the address or telephone number submitted by an unusually large number of
other customers or other persons opening accounts.
      (6)   The customer or the person opening the covered account fails to
provide all required personal identifying information on an application or in
response to notification that the application is incomplete.
      (7)   Personal identifying information provided is not consistent with
personal identifying information that is on file with the village.
      (8)   When using security questions (mother’s maiden name, pet’s name,
and the like), the person opening the covered account or the customer cannot
provide authenticating information beyond that which generally would be
available from a wallet or consumer report.
   (E)   Unusual use of, or suspicious activity related to, the covered
account.
      (1)   Shortly following the notice of a change of address for a covered
account, the village receives a request for new, additional, or replacement
goods or services, or for the addition of authorized users on the account.
      (2)   A new revolving credit account is used in a manner commonly
associated with known patterns of fraud patterns. For example, the customer
fails to make the first payment or makes an initial payment but no subsequent
payments.
      (3)   A covered account is used in a manner that is not consistent with
established patterns of activity on the account. There is, for example:
         (a)   Nonpayment when there is no history of late or missed payments;
or
         (b)   Severe swings in consumption; for example, 1,000 kwh to 3,000
kwh.
      (4)   A covered account that has been inactive for a reasonably lengthy
period of time is used (taking into consideration the type of account, the
expected pattern of usage and other relevant factors).
      (5)   Mail sent to the customer is returned repeatedly as undeliverable
although transactions continue to be conducted in connection with the
customer’s covered account.
      (6)   The village is notified that the customer is not receiving paper
account statements.
      (7)   The village is notified of unauthorized charges or transactions in
connection with a customer’s covered account.
      (8)   The village receives notice from customers, victims of identity
theft, law enforcement authorities, or other persons regarding possible
identity theft in connection with covered accounts held by the village.
      (9)   The village is notified by a customer, a victim of identity theft,
a law enforcement authority, or any other person that it has opened a
fraudulent account for a person engaged in identity theft.
(Res. 08-43, passed 10-20-2008)
§ 37.06 RESPONDING TO RED FLAGS.
   (A)   Once potentially fraudulent activity is detected, an employee must act
quickly as a rapid appropriate response can protect customers and the village
from damages and loss.
      (1)   Once potentially fraudulent activity is detected, gather all
related documentation and write a description of the situation. Present this
information to the designated authority for determination.
      (2)   The designated authority will complete additional authentication to
determine whether the attempted transaction was fraudulent or authentic.
   (B)   If a transaction is determined to be fraudulent, appropriate actions
must be taken immediately. Actions may include:
      (1)   Canceling the transaction;
      (2)   Notifying and cooperating with appropriate law enforcement;
      (3)   Determining the extent of liability of the village; and
      (4)   Notifying the actual customer that fraud has been attempted.
(Res. 08-43, passed 10-20-2008)
§ 37.07 PERIODIC UPDATES TO PLAN.
   (A)   At periodic intervals established in the program, or as required, the
program will be reevaluated to determine whether all aspects of the program are
up to date and applicable in the current business environment. The village’s
Records Commission shall regularly assess the actual operation of the village’s
identity theft policy and recommend amendments to Council as needed.
   (B)   Periodic reviews will include an assessment of which accounts are
covered by the program.
   (C)   As part of the review, red flags may be revised, replaced, or
eliminated. Defining new red flags may also be appropriate.
   (D)   Actions to take in the event that fraudulent activity is discovered
may also require revision to reduce damage to the village and its customers.
(Res. 08-43, passed 10-20-2008)
§ 37.08 PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Involvement of management.
      (1)   The Identity Theft Prevention Program shall not be operated as an
extension to existing fraud prevention programs, and its importance warrants
the highest level of attention.
      (2)   The Identity Theft Prevention Program is the responsibility of the
Village Administrator. Approval of the initial plan must be appropriately
documented and maintained.
      (3)   Operational responsibility of the program is delegated to the
Village Administrator.
      (4)   The Village Administrator shall have the authority to delegate to
and appoint village employees to administer this chapter.
      (5)   The Village Administrator shall provide regular reports to the
village’s Records Commission regarding the administration and enforcement of
this chapter.
   (B)   Staff training.
      (1)   Staff training shall be conducted for all employees, officials, and
contractors for whom it is reasonably foreseeable that they may come into
contact with accounts or personally identifiable information that may
constitute a risk to the village or its customers.
      (2)   The Village Administrator is responsible for ensuring identity
theft training for all requisite employees and contractors.
      (3)   Employees must receive regular training in all elements of this
policy.
      (4)   To ensure maximum effectiveness, employees may continue to receive
additional training as changes to the program are made.
   (C)   Oversight of service provider arrangements.
      (1)   It is the responsibility of the village to ensure that the
activities of all service providers are conducted in accordance with reasonable
policies and procedures designed to detect, prevent, and mitigate the risk of
identity theft.
      (2)   A service provider that maintains its own identity theft prevention
program, consistent with the guidance of the red flag rules and validated by
appropriate due diligence, may be considered to be meeting these requirements.
      (3)   Any specific requirements should be specifically addressed in the
appropriate contract arrangements.
(Res. 08-43, passed 10-20-2008)
CHAPTER 38: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
Employee Handbook
   
38.010   Introduction
   
38.020   Establishment of positions and compensation
   
38.030   Equal employment opportunity
   
38.040   Applicants
   
38.050   Wages and compensation
   
38.060   Appointment of the work force
   
38.070   Orientation/probation period
   
38.080   Employee status
   
38.090   Compensation and hours of work
   
38.091   Military leave
   
38.092   Use of the time clock for non-exempt employees
   
38.100   Paid time off
   
38.101   Sick leave
   
38.102   Holidays
   
38.103   Vacation, personal leave, and paid time off
   
38.104   Family and medical leave
   
38.105   Court leave
   
38.106   Funeral leave
   
38.107   Maternity leave
   
38.108   Unscheduled leave
   
38.109   Leave without pay
   
38.110   Expectations of employees
   
38.111   Appearance and uniforms
   
38.120   Retirement benefits
   
38.130   Pay day and deductions
   
38.140   Insurance benefits
   
38.150   Workers’ compensation
   
38.160   Unemployment compensation
   
38.170   Uniforms provided for certain employees
   
38.180   Training and license requirements
   
38.190   Water and sewer licenses/additional compensation
   
38.200   Training and exam fees
   
38.210   General information
   
38.220   Reimbursable expenses
   
38.230   Village vehicles and equipment
   
38.240   Driving privileges
   
38.250   Safety
   
38.260   Automobile collisions
   
38.270   Handling citizens’ complaints
   
38.280   Purchasing
   
38.290   Disposition of surplus village property
   
38.300   Telephone, cellular and/or radio communication assignment and use
   
38.310   Village credit card policy
   
38.320   Drug-free workplace
   
38.330   Harassment
   
38.340   Electronic mail, internet and computer use policy
   
38.350   Discipline and grievances
   
38.351   Pre-disciplinary conference
   
38.352   Appeals from disciplinary actions
   
38.360   Miscellaneous policies
   
38.370   Resignation and discharge
   
38.380   Severability
Police Handbook
   
38.510   Introduction
   
38.520   Establishment of positions and compensation
   
38.530   Equal employment opportunity
   
38.540   Applicants
   
38.550   Wages and compensation
   
38.560   Appointment of officers
   
38.570   Orientation/probation period
   
38.580   Employee status
   
38.590   Compensation and hours of work
   
38.591   Military leave
   
38.600   Paid time off
   
38.601   Sick leave
   
38.602   Holidays
   
38.603   Vacation, personal leave, and paid time off
   
38.604   Family and medical leave
   
38.605   Court leave
   
38.606   Funeral leave
   
38.607   Maternity leave
   
38.608   Unscheduled leave
   
38.609   Leave without pay
   
38.610   Expectations of employees
   
38.611   Appearance and uniforms
   
38.620   Retirement benefits
   
38.630   Pay day and deductions
   
38.640   Insurance benefits
   
38.650   Workers’ compensation
   
38.660   Unemployment compensation
   
38.670   Clothing allowance
   
38.680   Training and license requirements
   
38.700   Training and exam fees
   
38.710   General information
   
38.720   Reimbursable expenses
   
38.730   Village vehicles and equipment
   
38.740   Driving privileges
   
38.750   Safety
   
38.760   Automobile collisions
   
38.770   Handling citizens’ complaints
   
38.780   Purchasing
   
38.790   Disposition of surplus village property
   
38.800   Telephone, cellular and/or radio communication assignment and use
   
38.810   Village credit card policy
   
38.820   Drug-free workplace
   
38.830   Harassment
   
38.840   Electronic mail, internet and computer use policy
   
38.850   Discipline and grievances
   
38.851   Appeals from disciplinary actions
   
38.860   Miscellaneous policies
   
38.870   Resignation and discharge
   
38.880   Severability
EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK
§ 38.010 INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   This manual has been prepared by the village to provide guidance with
respect to your job; its benefits and responsibilities. Please read this manual
carefully to become familiar with your employment responsibilities and the
benefits provided for you. After reading this manual, if you still have
questions, you are welcome to discuss them with your supervisor or the Village
Administrator, Mayor, or Fiscal Officer. The policies and procedures set forth
in this manual are designed to promote safety, high morale, and foster good
working relationships among employees of the various departments and offices of
the village by providing consistent and well-understood personnel policies,
equal opportunities for advancement, and appropriate consideration of employee
needs.
   (B)   The village hopes your employment with us will be rewarding. We are a
dynamic organization that will occasionally implement changes in these policies
and regulations for the betterment of our village.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.020 ESTABLISHMENT OF POSITIONS AND COMPENSATION.
   All positions to be staffed by village employees shall be first established
by Village Council. Village Council shall also possess the exclusive authority
to establish rates of compensation and benefits for village employees.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.030 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY.
   (A)   (1)   It is hereby declared personnel policy of the village that the
village will provide equal employment opportunity for all qualified applicants
and employees consistent with the requirements of state and federal law.
Accordingly, discrimination against any person or employee because of race,
color, religion, sex, age, marital status, national origin, citizenship status,
disability, or veteran status in each instance as proscribed by state or
federal law shall be prohibited.
      (2)   Equal opportunity extends to all aspects of the employment
relationship, including hiring, promotions, training, dismissals, working
conditions, compensation, benefits, and other terms and conditions of
employment.
   (B)   Village policy expressly prohibits discriminatory hiring and personnel
practices against qualified individuals with disabilities. Reasonable
accommodation of known physical or mental limitations will be made, unless the
accommodation would pose an undue hardship on the village. Individuals will not
be placed in positions where, with or without a reasonable accommodation, they
create a direct threat to the safety or health of themselves or others. The
determination that an individual poses a direct threat will be confirmed by an
opinion in writing from an appropriate professional selected by the village.
   (C)   An employee or applicant for employment who believes that he/she has
been discriminated against on the grounds of age, race, national origin, color,
religion, sex, marital status, ancestry, or disability may consult with the
Fiscal Officer who is hereby designated the village's Equal Employment
Opportunity Officer (EEOO) in an effort to resolve the matter. If the matter
cannot be resolved to the aggrieved party's satisfaction, the aggrieved party
shall be informed in writing of his/her right to file a formal complaint with
the EEOC of Ohio.
   (D)   In addition to the duties described above, the EEOO shall be
responsible for (1) seeing that all announcements or advertisements for
positions of employment with this village contain information that informs
applicants that the village is an equal opportunity employer; (2) collect and
keep in a separate confidential file all voluntary data forms compiled for
affirmative action purposes.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.040 APPLICANTS.
   Each prospective employee shall complete and submit an application form with
qualifications to be reviewed by the department head, Village Administrator,
and submitted for approval by the Mayor. All applications for employment shall
be filed by the Fiscal Officer.
   (A)   An applicant shall be required to provide any information and undergo
any examinations necessary to demonstrate qualification for the position
sought, insofar as such information or examination is job-related, including
criminal background checks, driving history checks, medical examinations,
fitness tests, and any other information requests and testing as deemed
necessary for evaluation of the candidate for employment.
   (B)   The appointing authority shall make the appointment conditional
pending the passing of the necessary checks or tests as referenced in division
(A) of this section.
   (C)   The applicant may be scheduled for a post-offer medical examination
and may subsequently receive a drug test by a village-contracted medical
facility. Such examinations are taken to ensure that the selected job
applicants are professionally qualified to perform the essential duties of the
position. Failure to pass a physical and/or drug test may be grounds for
elimination from the selection process.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.050 WAGES AND COMPENSATION.
   (A)   An annual salary and pay rate schedule for the village employees shall
be prepared by the Finance Committee of the Village Council and presented to
Council by the second meeting in February of each year. Said pay rate shall be
effective the first pay period of April in that year.
   (B)   No employee of the village work force shall be paid a wage lower than
the minimum rates as established in the Fair Labor Standards Act 29 U.S.C. 201
et seq. or pursuant to Article II, Section 34(a) of the Ohio Constitution,
whichever is higher. Every village employee shall be advised of his/her
starting rate of pay before beginning employment.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.060 APPOINTMENT OF THE WORK FORCE.
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint the Village Administrator, Fiscal Officer, and
Police Chief, subject to approval by Council. These employees, except the Chief
of Police (R.C. § 737.171), shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor and
Council and may be removed without cause by the Mayor with the approval of a
majority vote of Council, or by Council by a vote of three-fourths of its
members without the consent of the Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor shall also appoint a Clerk of the Mayor's Court, who shall
serve at the pleasure of the Mayor, and the Mayor may remove this employee
without cause at any time. The Mayor shall also appoint all full-time and part-
time police officers in accordance with R.C. § 737.16.
   (C)   The Administrator shall serve as the appointing authority for
employees of the village's utilities departments, Street & Parks Department.
All appointments by the Administrator shall be approved by the Mayor.
   (D)   Nepotism.
      (1)   Immediate family members shall not be hired into the same
department. The employment of persons who establish immediate family
relationships after employment shall be prohibited if such employment will
result in one immediate family member exercising supervision over the other or
otherwise having the ability to influence the terms or conditions of the
other's employment.
      (2)   For the purpose of this policy, IMMEDIATE FAMILY shall be defined
as the following relatives of the employee or the employee's spouse: spouse,
parent, child or sibling including the spouse of any such relatives; and the
following relatives of the employee: aunt, uncle, nephew, niece, first cousin,
grandparent or grandchild including the spouse of any such relatives. In the
case of village employees who become immediate family members after employment
and whose relationship would violate the policy as set forth herein, the
employees shall determine which of them will seek employment elsewhere in the
village or, as necessary, outside the organization. Said decision shall be
conveyed in writing to the appropriate department head and Human Resources
Director no later than 30 days from the date the relationship was legally
established. Said employees will be given a reasonable period of time, not to
exceed 90 days from the date the relationship is legally established, to make
that decision. If the decision is not made within 90 days, the village reserves
the right to transfer, demote or dismiss the affected employee(s) to resolve
the nepotism violation. In the case of dismissal, the most senior of the
employees, as determined by length of service with the village, will be
retained. If seniority is equal, the village shall consider the qualifications
and job performance of the employees in determining which will be retained.
      (3)   This policy shall cover the immediate family relationships of all
employees of the village whether they are part-time or full-time.
      (4)   This policy is not intended to alter the employment terms of any
current full-time or part-time employee whose employment violates the above
provision but did not violate the policy in force at the time of employment or
at the time the immediate family relationship took place. In the case of a
part-time employee who is separated from employment at the end of a season,
said employee shall be allowed to reapply for employment, providing re-
application is made for the next season and is in the same capacity that the
village the employee worked prior to separation. Department managers shall
assure that supervisory and work assignments of said employees minimize the
appearance of and opportunity for conflicts of interest or impropriety.
Department managers and the Human Resources Division shall assure that these
"grandfathered" exceptions gradually cease as attrition occurs.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.070 ORIENTATION/PROBATION PERIOD.
   (A)   Your immediate supervisor will see that you are acquainted with your
fellow employees and informed of the duties and responsibilities of your job.
He/she will be available to answer questions, offer advice and to inform you of
your work progress. You should also receive any specific rules/regulations
regarding your specific job, starting and ending times for your shift, and
forms for recording work time, work logs, and any other required documents that
you may be expected to maintain and file. The first 90 calendar days of
employment shall be considered an orientation/probation period during which you
have an opportunity to acclimate yourself to your job and your fellow
employees, and it gives your supervisor an opportunity to observe your work
habits, skills, and suitability for your job. At the end of the orientation
period, or sooner, your performance will be evaluated by your supervisor. This
evaluation will be reviewed with you and your supervisor may offer suggestions
of how your performance can be improved. Your supervisor will submit one of the
following recommendations:
      (1)   Retain as permanent employee;
      (2)   Extension of orientation period for no more than 90 calendar days;
or
      (3)   Unsuited for employment.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.080 EMPLOYEE STATUS.
   (A)   All village employees are to be classified as full-time, part-time,
temporary or seasonal, auxiliary, or probationary employee as defined below:
      (1)   Full-time regular employee. An employee normally scheduled to work
a minimum of 32 hours per week, or some other regular and consistent work
schedule such as Utilities Department shifts.
      (2)   Part-time employee. An employee who is normally scheduled to work
less than 32 hours per week.
      (3)   Temporary employee. An employee hired for a limited period of time,
either full-time or part-time.
      (4)   Seasonal employee. An employee who works in a position that may
only be performed during certain times of the year, whether full-time or part-
time.
      (5)   A contractual employee. One who is employed by a special contract,
ordinance, or other agreement within the village.
      (6)   Probationary employees. Serve at the will of the appointing
authority, and may be removed at any time during the probationary period.
      (7)   Exempt employees are those supervisory employees who are paid a
fixed salary and meet the criteria for exempt employees under the Federal Fair
Labor Standards Act.
      (8)   Non-exempt employees are all those who do not meet the criteria for
exempt employees.
   (B)   Part-time employees who work 20 or more hours per week are entitled to
paid life insurance benefits. All employees are eligible for Bureau of Workers'
Compensation coverage.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.090 COMPENSATION AND HOURS OF WORK.
   (A)   Pay periods. The employee of the village shall be paid every two weeks
by Friday, with department heads approving and submitting time sheets to the
Administrator or Mayor for the pay period by 9:00 a.m. on the Monday
immediately preceding each payday. Should a payday fall on a holiday, the
payday will move to the day before the holiday.
   (B)   Elected officials, including Council Members, zoning inspectors, and
members of the Cemetery Board, shall be paid monthly except as determined by
separate contract.
   (C)   Overtime, non-exempt. Supervisors will be accountable for controlling
overtime situations and the associated expense. Whenever possible, work
schedules shall be adjusted to avoid or reduce routine overtime work. In
situations where unexpected changes in workload require additional hours
mandated by the supervisor, overtime hours may be authorized.
   (D)   Overtime work shall, whenever possible, be on a voluntary basis,
however an employee's supervisor, or the supervisor's designee, reserves the
right to require any employee to work extra hours when the need arises. All
overtime must be authorized by the appropriate department head or the Mayor or
Administrator.
   (E)   Scheduled hours.
      (1)   The current weekly payroll period shall begin at 12:01 a.m. on
Monday and continue for seven consecutive days to end at 12:00 midnight the
following Sunday. Department heads shall establish the appropriate work
schedule for their department, in consideration of public service, workload,
and operational needs after approval by the Administrator or Mayor.
      (2)   All employees working a full work shift will, to the extent
practicable, receive a meal period that is normally one unpaid half hour,
except those working in the Police Department. Designated lunch periods are not
compensated as work time; therefore, employees shall be relieved from work for
that time period. Employees shall not waive/forfeit their meal or break periods
to reduce their workday or work week.
      (3)   With the exception of employees exempt from overtime according to
the Fair Labor Standards Act, employees shall be entitled to overtime
compensation at the rate of one and one-half hours for each hour worked in
excess of 40 hours or other permitted work schedule in the designated work
week. For purposes of calculating overtime pay, sick leave shall be excluded if
taken within 24 hours of the overtime opportunity.
      (4)   Compensatory time may be granted to nonexempt employees only in
lieu of cash for any overtime worked. Compensatory time is accrued at a rate of
one and one-half time basis, and may be used at a time mutually convenient to
the employee and the village. Employees may "bank" compensatory time, but under
no circumstances shall an employee "bank" more than 80 hours of unused
compensatory time without the approval of the Village Administrator or Mayor.
Any remaining compensatory time up to 80 hours shall be paid the first pay of
December of each calendar year. Any overtime earned after the compensatory
payout in the current year will be paid as overtime.
      (5)   Whenever a nonexempt employee is called into work at a time other
than his/her planned work schedule, thereby necessitating additional travel to
and from work, he/she shall be guaranteed two hours of pay. Utility Department
employees required to perform weekend checks and sampling shall be compensated
for a minimum of two hours for each day, or for actual hours worked, whichever
is greater.
      (6)   During any given work week, a supervisor may alter an employee's
schedule, hour for hour, to avoid the employee working in excess of the regular
scheduled work week of 40 hours.
      (7)   Village employees shall not serve as a volunteer for the same job
in which he/she is employed full time by the village.
      (8)   Break periods shall be granted only at the discretion of the
supervisor and may be granted only to the extent practicable without
interference with normal work operations.
      (9)   In order to avoid undue hardship on employees, advance notice of
schedule changes will be given whenever possible. You are expected to be at
your assigned job punctually at starting time and remain until proper quitting
time.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018; Ord. 13-
2021, passed 4-6-2021)
§ 38.091 MILITARY LEAVE.
   The village will comply with federal and state laws regarding military duty.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.092 USE OF THE TIME CLOCK FOR NON-EXEMPT EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Introduction. Employees of the village who are subject to overtime
provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) are required to clock in on
the time clock maintained at their reporting location, or such other locations
as the Village Administrator may designate. The FLSA distinguishes between
exempt and non-exempt employees. Exempt employees are not paid for the time
that they work, but for the work that they do. Exempt employees are salaried,
and they are exempt from the overtime requirements of FLSA. FLSA does not
require that exempt employees be paid for overtime. Non-exempt employees, on
the other hand, are paid for the time that they work, and the village is
required by FLSA to pay time and one-half for all hours worked over 40 hours,
except for special provisions for police and fire employees. The purpose of
these policies and procedures, therefore, is to set forth rules for employees
who “punch” or clock in on the time clock.
   (B)   Clocking in and out for regular work shift. Employees who are subject
to overtime provisions of FLSA are required to clock in no later than the
beginning of their scheduled work shift and to clock out at the end of the
scheduled work shift, unless required to work approved overtime or unless on
approved leave. Employees are permitted to clock in no sooner than 10 minutes
prior to the beginning of their shift and to clock out no later than 10 minutes
after their shift ends. Employees who clock in late or clock out early will
have compensation for such lost time deducted from their paychecks.
   (C)   Clocking in and out during lunch and break periods. Employees are not
required to punch in and out during scheduled lunch and break periods. If the
village has reason to believe that employees are abusing lunch breaks, the
village may require that employees punch in and out for such breaks. It is not
recommended that employees clock in and out during other scheduled break times.
   (D)   Excluding their 30-minute lunch break, if an employee leaves work in
their personal vehicle, they are required to clock out.
   (E)   Clocking in for other employees prohibited. Under no circumstance will
an employee punch a time clock for another employee. Violation of this policy,
misrepresentation of time worked, or clocking in/out on behalf of anyone
besides yourself will result in disciplinary action, up to and including
termination.
   (F)   Employees on leave. Employees who are on annual, sick leave or other
approved special leave, are not required to punch the time clock while on such
approved leave; however, all documentation for leave must be submitted to the
immediate supervisor, in accordance with the village’s leave policies.
   (G)   Calculation of time. Employees are permitted a grace period to clock
in 10 minutes prior to and 10 minutes after their scheduled work hours. Unless
approved as overtime by Administrator or Mayor employees’ time will be
calculated at their regularly scheduled work hours. Approved overtime beyond
the 10-minute grace period will be rounded to the nearest quarter hour.
   (H)   Employees subject to these policies and procedures may be required to
sign an acknowledgment with the following statement: “I certify by my signature
that I have received a copy of the Policies and Procedures for use of the Time
Clock for Non-Exempt Employees for the Village of Bellville; that these
policies and procedures have been explained to me; and further that I have had
an opportunity to ask questions about the policies and procedures.”
(Ord. 11-2020, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 38.100 PAID TIME OFF.
   (A)   Scheduled paid time off is distinguished from unscheduled paid time
off by the degree of control or discretion that the village, through its
supervisors and department heads, exercises in the scheduling of leave time.
   (B)   Scheduled leave.
      (1)   The scheduling of time off shall be at the discretion of the
supervisor and/or department head based upon operational considerations. Every
effort will be made to accommodate the employee's requested dates for paid time
off.
      (2)   To be considered scheduled leave, a leave request form must be
submitted in advance of the use of the leave to the supervisor or department
head and the supervisor or department head shall have the option of denying or
rescheduling the leave to another date and/or time based upon operational or
business considerations.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.101 SICK LEAVE.
   Sick leave is a benefit provided to employees to aid them in offsetting the
financial burden of an illness. Employees are expected to be in attendance
daily, and sick leave is only to be used in cases of illness or recovery from
an injury. Sick leave is a form of insurance, and is not intended to be extra
days off.
   (A)   An employee may request sick leave for absence resulting from illness
or injury as described below:
      (1)   Illness or injury of the employee or a member of his or her
immediate family: mother, father, brother, sister, child, step-child or spouse.
      (2)   Exposure of an employee or a member of his or her immediate family
to a contagious disease, that would have the potential of seriously
jeopardizing the health of the employee or the health of others.
      (3)   Death of a member of the employee's immediate family or extended
family (family of spouse), in excess of what is permitted under funeral leave
in §
38.106. This extended leave is at the discretion of the department head.
      (4)   Medical, dental, optical, or psychological examinations or
treatment of employee or a member of his or her immediate family, requiring the
employee's presence.
      (5)   Pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions of the
employee or member of his or her immediate family.
   (B)   Sick leave accrual. All full-time employees of the village shall earn
sick leave at a rate of six hours per month that are actually worked, which
time may be accumulated to a maximum of 960 hours.
   (C)   Transfer of sick leave. Employees who transfer from another public
agency, or who are reappointed to the workforce may be credited with a
negotiated amount of sick leave. The words "public agency" as used above
include the state, counties, municipalities, all boards of education,
libraries, townships, and other public appointing authorities within the State
of Ohio.
   (D)   Notification. In the event that the employee is unable to work due to
unforeseen personal illness or injury, or for other unforeseen reasons, the
following provisions shall apply:
      (1)   If unable to report for work for any reason, employees shall
communicate this fact to the supervisor or his/her designee, as early as
required by the individual operating department but not less than one-half hour
before the start of your shift. Such notification shall be made each time a
scheduled work shift will be missed unless authorization has been granted by
the supervisor covering a prolonged absence of specified duration. Employees
failing to comply with this provision (except for a showing of good cause to
the appropriate supervisor, and if approved for pay by the department head),
shall not be paid for an unscheduled absence. Furthermore, absences not
reported in accordance with these provisions shall be subject to disciplinary
action.
      (2)   Three unscheduled occurrences without medical documentation in a
six-month period could result in disciplinary action. All consecutive workday
absences due to the same illness shall be considered as one occasion for the
purpose of this policy.
      (3)   Any employee of the village who shall miss more than three
consecutive days of regularly scheduled work without written prior notice and
written approval by the Mayor, Administrator or Chief of Police or without a
reasonable and verifiable excuse may be subjected to immediate termination.
   (E)   Medical assessment prior to return to work. In the case of any
unscheduled use of general leave due to personal illness or injury, the
supervisor or department head may require, at the expense of the employee,
medical confirmation that the employee was unable to perform work during said
leave. The village reserves the right to require that such confirmation is
obtained from the village's health care provider. If the employee is required
to obtain confirmation from the village's health care provider, said
confirmation shall be at the village's expense.
   (F)   Transitional work.
      (1)   The village recognizes that in particular circumstances of an
employee's injury or illness, an employee is not able to return to work in a
full duty work status; but is capable of performing limited job assignments.
Such assignments are temporary, and are not to be considered an accommodation
to a permanent illness or injury.
      (2)   The determination of placing an employee on transitional work
status shall be made by the Village Administrator and Mayor. The village is not
required to provide transitional work.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.102 HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   All full-time employees are entitled to the following paid holidays,
also holidays are paid to the Administrator and part-time office personnel when
the holiday falls on a scheduled work day.
      New Year's Day
      Good Friday
      Memorial Day
      Independence Day
      Labor Day
      Veterans Day
      Thanksgiving Day
      Day after Thanksgiving
      Christmas Eve
      Christmas Day
      New Year's Eve
   (B)   If a holiday falls on a Saturday, then it will be observed on the
preceding Friday. If the holiday falls on a Sunday, the holiday will be
observed on the following Monday.
   (C)   In observance of each authorized holiday, employees will normally be
granted the day off from work. Full-time employees shall receive eight hours'
straight time pay for each authorized holiday. Employees on alternative work
schedules, such as the Utilities Department or Police Department shall be paid
accordingly.
   (D)   When a full-time employee is required to work on the day observed as a
holiday, he/she shall be entitled to pay for such time actually worked at one
and one-half times his/her regular base rate of pay.
   (E)   If a holiday occurs while an employee is on vacation, that day will
not be charged against the employee's leave (i.e., one day off with pay, as if
not on vacation).
   (F)   Employees must be in active duty status the day before and the day
after the holiday and at the commencement of the holiday in order to receive
holiday pay unless on approved scheduled leave.
   (G)   Upon the request of the supervisor, an employee must produce a
satisfactory physician's statement to verify any use of sick leave on the day
before or the day after a holiday. Failure to produce such a requested
statement may result in denial of both holiday and sick leave pay and such
disciplinary action as may be appropriate.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.103 VACATION, PERSONAL LEAVE, AND PAID TIME OFF.
   (A)   All full-time employees who have more than one year of continuous
service with the village are eligible for vacation in accordance with the
following schedule. Each employee's eligibility for vacation shall be
determined on each employee's anniversary date of employment.
 
TIME EMPLOYED
After six months of employment      16 hours of vacation
One year but less than two years    40 hours of vacation (less any hours
                                    already taken)
Two years but less than seven years 80 hours of vacation
Seven years but less than 14 years  120 hours of vacation
Fifteen years or more               160 hours of vacation
 
   (B)   Vacation leave accrues while on paid status except injury leave. No
vacation credit is earned while an employee is on unpaid status.
   (C)   Vacation leave shall be taken in units of not less than one hour.
   (D)   Vacations are scheduled at management's discretion in accordance with
workload requirements of the individual departments.
   (E)   Due to department operational requirements, management may block out
periods of time which are not available for vacation.
   (F)   Up to 40 hours of an employee's unused yearly vacation leave may be
carried over into the next vacation year only under extenuating circumstances
and only with prior approval by the Mayor. No more than one week of unused
vacation leave may be carried forward at any time.
   (G)   Vacation time will be credited upon the employee's anniversary date of
employment. Upon an employee's retirement, vacation time earned by that
employee will be pro-rated. If an employee leaves the village for any other
reason, vacation hours will not be pro-rated.
   (H)   In the case of death of an employee, the employee's accrued vacation
leave will be converted to a lump sum payment payable to the employee's
beneficiary or estate.
   (I)   Personal leave. After six months of employment or completion of the
employee's probation period, each full-time employee shall be allowed three
personal leave days per year. Time off for personal business shall be taken in
no less than two-hour increments, at the discretion of the department head.
Personal days cannot be carried over to the next calendar year.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.104 FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE.
   Consistent with the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (FMLA), full-time,
part-time and seasonal employees may be entitled to a family or medical leave
of absence if certain conditions are met.
   (A)   Eligibility for family and medical leave.
      (1)   Any employee who has been employed by the village for at least 12
months, and who has worked at least 1,250 hours with the village during the 12
months preceding the request for a leave of absence, shall be eligible for a
family or medical leave of up to 12 weeks in a 12 month period.
      (2)   An eligible employee may take family or medical leave for the
following reasons:
         (a)   To care for a newborn child or newly adopted or newly placed
foster care child, as long as the leave is taken in the year following the
child's birth or placement;
         (b)   To care for their child, spouse, or parent who has a serious
health condition; or
         (c)   To attend to their own serious health condition which prevents
them from performing the functions of their job.
   (B)   Length of leave.
      (1)   Each eligible employee may be granted FMLA leave for a period up to
12 workweeks during any 12-month period, measured backward from the date an
employee uses FMLA, with the following exception.
      (2)   When a husband and wife both work for the village, the two
employees are limited to a combined total of 12 weeks of leave during any 12
month period following the birth or placement of a child. If the leave is
necessitated by the serious health condition of the employee or that of the
employee's spouse or child, the employees are not limited to a combined total
of 12 weeks.
   (C)   Substitution of other leave programs. If an employee is entitled to
paid leave the employee must take the paid leave as provided under the other
leave programs and must simultaneously request FMLA leave. Use of paid leave
does not extend the family or medical leave of absence period. The total of
paid and unpaid leave provided shall not exceed 12 workweeks unless
specifically approved by the employee's department head. When accrued leave has
been exhausted or does not apply, FMLA leave shall be without pay.
   (D)   Reduced work schedule/intermittent leave.
      (1)   Employees taking leave because of their own or their eligible
family member's serious health condition may take their 12 weeks of FMLA leave
intermittently or on a reduced hour's basis, if such leave is medically
necessary. Certification of medical necessity shall be required. If
intermittent or reduced hours leave is required, the village may, in its sole
discretion, temporarily transfer the employee to another job with equivalent
pay and benefits that better accommodates the employee's recurring periods of
leave.
      (2)   Employees taking leave to care for a newly born or newly placed
child do not have the legal right to take intermittent leave; such a request
for intermittent leave may be approved by the employee's department head.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.105 COURT LEAVE.
   (A)   The village shall pay court leave according to an employee's regular
salary when an employee is summoned for any jury duty or subpoenaed as a
witness by any court or other legal proceeding regarding village business
during the employee's regularly scheduled work day.
   (B)   Employees should honor any subpoena issued to them for testimony
involving village business, including those from state or local agencies
involving workers' compensation and unemployment compensation.
   (C)   All compensation received from the summoning agency for such duty
shall be paid to the village unless such duty is performed completely outside
of normal work hours.
   (D)   The employee will be expected to report to work following jury duty,
if a reasonable amount of time remains during his or her scheduled work day.
   (E)   An employee shall not be entitled to paid court leave for any matter
in which the employee has a personal interest or in which the village is an
adverse party.
   (F)   If an employee is taking part in a court case not related to their
village employment, he/she must use vacation leave, compensatory time off, or
leave without pay for the period of absence.
   (G)   The village will have to evaluate, on a case-by-case basis, paying for
extended leaves for jury duty beyond 30 workdays.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.106 FUNERAL LEAVE.
   (A)   Full-time employees will be granted up to three days leave with pay at
their regularly hourly rate of pay for scheduled work days lost because of
death in their immediate family. Immediate family means the employees mother,
father, mother-in-law, father-in-law, spouse, children, stepchildren, brother,
and sister, grandparents, grandchildren, grandparents-in-law.
   (B)   Full-time employees will be granted one day leave due to death of non-
immediate family member. Non-immediate family means the employees brother-in-
law, sister-in-law, aunts and uncles and other village employees.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.107 MATERNITY LEAVE.
   The expectant mother must furnish the payroll office with a physician's
statement giving anticipated date of delivery. The village may request a
written authorization from your physician for you to continue working during
any time of your pregnancy or before your return to work. Maternity leave shall
be considered the same as any other sick leave accumulated by village
employees. Unused vacation time may be used to supplement accrued sick leave.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.108 UNSCHEDULED LEAVE.
   In the event that an employee must be off the job on an unscheduled basis
and has not accrued paid time off to cover the absence, he/she may request
leave without pay which must be approved by the Mayor, Administrator or Chief
of Police.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.109 LEAVE WITHOUT PAY.
   (A)   The appointing authority may grant a leave of absence without pay to a
regular full-time or part-time employee for a maximum duration of one year for
an extraordinary personal reason. Such leave may not be renewed or extended
beyond one year.
   (B)   Leave without pay may be granted for a maximum period of one year for
purposes of education, training, or specialized experience which would be of
benefit to the village service by improved performance at any level; or for
voluntary service in any government-sponsored program.
   (C)   The decision whether to grant a leave of absence without pay lies in
the sole discretion of the appointing authority.
   (D)   Excessive use of unscheduled general leave. The unscheduled use of
paid time off, which is considered excessive by the supervisor and department
head, may be subject to progressive discipline.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.110 EXPECTATIONS OF EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Work habits. All employees are expected to maintain competency to
properly perform the duties of their position. Employees shall perform their
duties in a manner which reflects the high standards of the village with
regards to effectiveness in safely and efficiently carrying out our mission,
functions, and objectives.
   (B)   Punctuality. It is essential that you report for work at your
scheduled hour. Late reporting and early departing shall be paid accordingly
and may be subject to disciplinary action.
   (C)   Conflict of interest.
      (1)   No employee will accept from any contractor or supplier doing
business with the village, any material or service for the private use of the
employee.
      (2)   No employee shall represent private interests in any action or
proceedings against the interest of the village in any matter in which the
village is part.
      (3)   State law prohibits employees and officials from having a financial
interest in companies which do business with public agencies with minor
exemptions. Employees who have any doubt concerning possible violation of these
statutes are advised to consult their own attorney.
      (4)   Violations of this code may constitute a cause of suspension,
removal from office or employment to other disciplinary action.
   (D)   Courtesy. Village employees are representatives of the Village of
Bellville and as such, their behavior and courtesy reflect upon the village.
Therefore, it is expected that all village employees will display tact and
courtesy when dealing with the public and with other village employees at all
times. Rude or inconsiderate behavior or public insults or profanity will not
be tolerated.
   (E)   Political activity. Village employees are prohibited from engaging in
political activity while on duty.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.111 APPEARANCE AND UNIFORMS.
   (A)   Village Council and the administration shall prescribe the appropriate
standards for dress and grooming that presents a positive image for the
village.
   (B)   Uniformed employees. Employees required to wear a uniform are expected
to wear them properly and keep them well maintained. Your uniform identifies
you as a village employee. Safety shoes shall be worn by employees of the
cemetery, streets, parks, and utilities staff.
   (C)   Non-uniformed employees.
      (1)   Business-casual attire is the minimal acceptable level of attire.
Logo clothing in support of the Village of Bellville, Clear Fork Local Schools,
or other colleges and universities are permitted, unless otherwise specified.
Employees are still expected to present a neat appearance.
      (2)   Employees are not permitted at any time to wear flip-flop sandals,
cut-off pants, halter or crop tops, or any other clothing that may be
considered offensive or inappropriate.
      (3)   Any employee who does not meet the standards of this policy will be
required to take corrective action which may include leaving the premises.
Employees will not be compensated for any work time missed because of failure
to comply with this policy.
      (4)   Failure to present a professional appearance may also be cause for
disciplinary action.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.120 RETIREMENT BENEFITS.
   (A)   Public Employees Retirement System deductions from gross salary are
mandatory for all employees. These funds are credited to the employee's savings
account with the respective funds, and a statement of the balance in the
account as of December 31 is mailed to each member in early February. Upon
enrollment in OPERS you will receive a member handbook for your information.
   (B)   An employee shall be compensated for 25% of his/her unused accumulated
sick time as part of their final pay.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.130 PAY DAY AND DEDUCTIONS.
   (A)   Paychecks will be distributed every other Friday by your supervisor.
Each paycheck covers a working period of the two calendar weeks ending the
previous Saturday at midnight. Thus, there is an interval of five days between
the end of that working period ending Saturday and the issuance of your
paycheck on Friday.
   (B)   Department supervisors may pick up pay stubs from the Fiscal Officer
by 3:00 p.m. the day before pay day.
   (C)   When you believe there is an error in your paycheck or you have
questions, contact your supervisor, or in his/her absence, the Fiscal Officer,
immediately before cashing your check. An employee may not draw money in
advance of his/her regular pay.
   (D)   Department heads shall see to the maintenance and accuracy of daily
time and attendance records for their various divisions. Approval for payment
and input of time and attendance records into the payroll system shall be
completed by 9:00 a.m. on the Monday proceeding the pay date, unless otherwise
authorized.
   (E)   Each time you are paid, your payroll stub will show the amount earned,
all deductions, and net amount you receive. The village is required to withhold
deductions for income taxes and OPERS (Ohio Public Employment Retirement
System) or Police Pension. Any court ordered deductions, optional insurance
coverage and Credit Union deposits may be made through payroll deduction. The
amount withheld is determined by the number of exemptions you claim on the
Government Form W-4 for federal income tax and on Form IT-4 State of Ohio for
state income tax. It is the employee's responsibility to be aware of
withholdings and if there is a concern they are to contact the Fiscal Officer.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.140 INSURANCE BENEFITS.
   (A)   Health insurance coverage is provided for full-time employees and
their dependents. Enrollment forms are available from the Fiscal Officer and
shall be completed upon date of hire for insurance to become effective upon the
first day of work.
   (B)   The village reserves the right to require employees to contribute a
share of the cost of the insurance premiums based on market conditions and the
village's financial resources. Each employee on the villages health insurance
shall contribute 15% of each individual's monthly premium per pay.
   (C)   Health insurance and employee group life insurance coverage ends
immediately upon separation from village employment or upon the due date of the
next premium payment unless otherwise negotiated.
   (D)   Life insurance. The village provides a group life insurance policy
($40,000) for each full-time employee and for each part-time employee who
regularly works more than 20 hours per week. Premiums will be paid by the
village.
   (E)   Health reimbursement account. For each full-time employee that
participates in the village's health insurance there is money put in the
account for them. If an employee is on a single policy they get $1,500,
employee + 1 $1,750, family $2,000 per calendar year. When an employee joins
the village's health insurance the money will not be put in the HRA account
until one year after their hire date. One year after their hire date the money
will be prorated for that year and then the following they will get the full
amount. If an employee does not use any of the HRA money in a year's time, the
remaining balance will be rolled into the next year. An employee can only carry
a maximum balance in their HRA up to the said employee's deductible amount for
their health insurance.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.150 WORKER’S COMPENSATION.
   Every employee is covered by Worker’s Compensation for injuries received
while on duty. The coverage is in complete compliance with Ohio laws. The
employee shall follow the instructions provided by the village's third party
administrator for Worker's Compensation. Failure to promptly report an accident
could endanger your eligibility for coverage for such accident.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.160 UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION.
   Employees may be eligible to receive unemployment compensation according to
the regulations of the State of Ohio. If you terminate employment with the
village before securing another position, you may contact the Department of Job
and Family Services to determine whether you qualify for benefits.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.170 UNIFORMS PROVIDED FOR CERTAIN EMPLOYEES.
   Employees of the Village Street and Parks Department, Cemetery Department,
and Water/Sewer Department shall be provided rented uniforms at village
expense.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.180 TRAINING AND LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Since the village water supply works has been designated as a Class I
facility by the Ohio EPA, no person shall serve as a qualified waterworks
operator without proper supervision unless he/she has been certified as at
least a Class I operator by the Director of the Ohio EPA.
   (B)   Since the village's waste water treatment facility has been designated
as a Class II facility by the Ohio EPA, no person shall serve as a qualified
wastewater operator without proper supervision unless he/she has been certified
as at least a Class II operator by the Director of the Ohio EPA.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.190 WATER AND SEWER LICENSES/ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The following additional compensation will be paid to employees who
hold the license listed below, only when the village places an employee in a
job position, or assigns a task that requires the applicable license or
certification.
      (1)   Minimum License Required - Water - Class I      Approx. 60 hours +
state exam
         (a)   Additional compensation                  + $1/hour
         (b)   Additional water licenses, i.e. Class II, etc.   + $.75/hour
            with prior approval by the Administrator
         (c)   Lesser courses, i.e. Water Distrib. I & II      + $.25/hour
      (2)   Minimum License Required - Wastewater - Class I   Approx. 60 hours
+ state exam
         (a)   Additional compensation - Class I            + $1/hour
         (b)   Additional wastewater licenses, i.e. Class II,   + $.75/hour
            with prior approval by the Administrator
         (c)   Lesser courses, i.e. wastewater collection,
            lab course, etc.                         + $.25/hour
      (3)   Wastewater III. No additional compensation at this time.
   (B)   The Village Administrator shall be responsible for determining the
need for the above licenses and who shall be authorized to take the required
training and examinations, and who must actually use these licenses on a
regular basis in the course of their work. Only those actually working in a
position requiring such license will receive the additional compensation
described above.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.200 TRAINING AND EXAM FEES.
   (A)   The village will pay the cost of the training course and state
examination fees leading to the granting of a Class I or Class II Water or
Wastewater Treatment Operator's License, Water Distribution or Wastewater
Collection License, Laboratory Technician's License, not more than twice for
those persons authorized and approved by the Administrator to seek these
licenses.
   (B)   In consideration of the payment of tuition and/or examination fees,
and if the employee is successful in obtaining a license, the employee agrees
that he/she will remain in the employment of the village for a period of at
least one year from the date of issue of the license. If an employee leaves the
employment of the village voluntarily before the completion of this one-year
period, he/she agrees to reimburse the full tuition and exam fees to the
village upon leaving village employment.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.210 GENERAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Promotions. Promotions are made from within the organization when it
is both reasonable and prudent. However, it is in the village's best interests
to hire or promote the most qualified person available. Work experience, formal
education and special training will be qualifying factors.
   (B)   Bulletin boards. The bulletin boards, located in various places in the
Village Hall, are for your general information. Check bulletin boards daily and
stay alert for notices of interest and of activities. Anything which would
generally be considered obscene or contrary to the policies of the village may
not be posted on any bulletin board.
   (C)   Personal mail. Employees shall not have personal mail delivered to the
Village Hall except upon approval by their supervisor. All mail addressed to
and received by the village will be considered business mail and may be opened
by other village employees.
   (D)   Timesheets/activity logs. Employees must maintain daily time sheets
and activity logs as provided by the village accurately documenting work start
times and ending times as well as the nature of the work activities during each
shift. These records must be reviewed and approved by the department supervisor
prior to submission to the Fiscal Officer for payroll calculation. Incomplete
time sheets or time sheets with major errors or omissions may result in a delay
in calculation of a paycheck for the employee in question. Please make sure
your time sheets are accurate and complete. Making alterations or entries on
another person's time sheets is strictly prohibited and may result in
disciplinary action up to and including dismissal. Falsification of your
personal time sheet is strictly prohibited and may result in disciplinary
action up to and including dismissal.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.220 REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES.
   (A)   An employee authorized by the Mayor and/or Administrator to travel on
official business may be reimbursed for the actual, reasonable, and necessary
expenses incurred for lodging.
      (1)   All employees must have prior approval by the appropriate
department head.
      (2)   The Fiscal Officer, Village Administrator and Chief of Police must
have prior approval by the Mayor.
   (B)   The maximum allowable reimbursement for meals is $10 for breakfast,
$15 for lunch, and $20 for supper, unless meal functions are included, in which
case the actual cost of the meal function will be reimbursed.
   (C)   A village supplied vehicle shall be the preferred method for village
employees to travel on official village business. When a village vehicle is not
available, employees will be reimbursed for use of their personal vehicle at
the maximum rate which Internal Revenue Service allows as a business travel
expense deduction for federal income tax purposes. Employees will also be
reimbursed for actual necessary and reasonable miscellaneous expenses such as
registration, tolls or parking.
   (D)   Receipts for all actual expense must be secured and presented to your
supervisor and/or Finance Director for approval of payment. Internal Revenue
Service regulations will determine whether any reimbursement constitutes
taxable or non-taxable income.
   (E)   No reimbursements shall be made for the purchase of any alcoholic
beverages. No alcoholic beverages may be consumed during the period that an
employee is on the clock.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.230 VILLAGE VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT.
   The use of village vehicles is intended for employees only. Under special or
emergency conditions, the Mayor or Village Administrator may temporarily waive
this regulation. Employees may not use MOTORIZED equipment belonging to the
village for personal use.
   (A)   Village owned tools and equipment that is NOT MOTORIZED may be
borrowed for personal use with prior approval by the Administrator or the Mayor
and approval by that department supervisor that would have normal control of
such equipment. A request form must be filled out and approved prior to said
use providing a complete list of any borrowed tools or equipment and the
specific dates, times and locations they will be used. The employee accepts
complete financial responsibility for any repairs or damage to such tools and
equipment while they are being used for personal purposes.
   (B)   The village's insurance for vehicle and equipment and general
liability does not extend coverage while village equipment is being used for
personal use.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.240 DRIVING PRIVILEGES.
   General regulations for employees.
   (A)   A commercial driver's license (CDL) may be required for the operation
of certain vehicles as required by state and federal regulations. No employee
may knowingly operate a motor vehicle in violation of these regulations.
   (B)   The Village Administrator shall be notified within 30 days of a
conviction for any moving traffic violation.
   (C)   Village employees with a commercial driver's license shall notify the
Motor Vehicle Licensing Agency within 30 days if you are convicted in any other
state of any traffic violation (except parking).
   (D)   All village employees who drive any village vehicles including police
auxiliary members shall advise the Village Administrator immediately if his/her
license is suspended, revoked, canceled or if you are disqualified from
driving.
   (E)   All full-time village employees in the Street and Parks Departments
and Water/Sewer Department shall have a commercial driver's license.
   (F)   Village employees required to have a commercial driver's license shall
take the test during regular business hours. If the test has to be taken after
regular business hours the employee shall be compensated.
   (G)   The village will reimburse the employee for the fees required to
obtain a commercial driver's license of the appropriate class and with only the
endorsements needed for village employment under R.C. Chapter 4506, minus the
fee that would be payable to obtain a driver's license under R.C. Chapter 4507.
However, the fee shall be reimbursed by the employee if he/she does not stay
with the village as an employee for one year following the application for the
license. The employee shall also reimburse the village if his/her license is
suspended, revoked, canceled or they become disqualified for any reason.
   (H)   Village employees required to take a skills test to obtain a
commercial driver's license shall be permitted to use the village vehicle that
pertains to the skill test he/she is taking.
   (I)   Any employee holding a commercial driver's license who is convicted of
any motor vehicle traffic control ordinance or statute violation in any type of
motor vehicle and in any state or jurisdiction shall notify the Administrator
of the conviction in writing within 30 days. The written notice shall contain
the driver's full name, license number, date of conviction, the specific
offense for which the person was convicted; any suspension, revocation or
cancellation imposed whether the violation occurred in a commercial motor
vehicle, the location of the offense and the employee's signature.
   (J)   Violations of any of the above rules are subject to disciplinary
action by the village and possible suspension of your CDL by the State of Ohio.
   (K)   The employee authorizes the village to run a driving record at a
minimum annually or at the employers discretion.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.250 SAFETY.
   (A)   It is the objective of the village to conduct all operations as safely
as possible and to comply with all requirements of the Public Employment Risk
Reduction Program and other applicable regulations. To accomplish this, the
responsibility, authority and accountability for safe work practice is assigned
to all supervisory personnel within their individual area of operations.
   (B)   The Mayor may appoint a Safety Coordinator who will work with the
Safety Service Committee of Village Council in developing safety policies,
training programs and record keeping procedures.
   (C)   The village will periodically offer safety education and training to
village employees and shall provide at least minimal safety equipment such as
hard hats, protective eye wear, hearing protection, gloves for specific hazard
protection, and other appropriate items. It is the responsibility of the
department supervisor to alert the Safety Coordinator or Administrator of any
safety equipment needs of his/her department and to instruct and direct village
employees within his/her department on the proper use of safety equipment and
hazard avoidance.
   (D)   Any employee of the village shall have the right to refuse to work in
certain circumstances because of health or safety violations. If an employee is
aware of such hazards in the workplace, he/she should notify his/her immediate
supervisor of the nature of this hazard, and if he/she takes no action to
correct this condition, the employee may file a written complaint with the
designated Safety Coordinator or the Administrator. The Safety Coordinator and/
or Administrator shall take appropriate action to address this hazardous
condition or work practice within ten days or a complaint may be filed with the
State of Ohio Department of Industrial Relations, Division of Safety and
Hygiene at 1-800-282-3045, Fax: 614-644-5707.
   (E)   If a village employee experiences a work-related accident resulting in
injury or work-related illness, he/she should notify their immediate supervisor
as soon as possible following the injury or illness so that an investigation
may be initiated by the Safety Coordinator or Administrator into causes of the
accident or illness. The investigation shall document the nature of the injury
or illness, all of the circumstances surrounding the incident and any
determination made as to probable causes or contributing factors.
   (F)   The Safety Coordinator shall meet periodically with the Administrator
and Chief of Police and the Safety Committee of Village Council to review
accident reports, discuss work policy or practices and explain safety concerns,
new laws, regulations and requirements to Council and the Administration.
Safety needs and required funding should also be addressed to the Safety
Service Committee of Council.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.260 AUTOMOBILE COLLISIONS.
   In the event you are involved in a collision while driving a village
vehicle:
   (A)   Call local law enforcement for a police report.
   (B)   Obtain names and addresses of any witnesses, any injured person,
driver of the other vehicle, and owner of the other vehicle.
   (C)   Do not commit yourself as to responsibility.
   (D)   Do not authorize any repairs to other vehicles.
   (E)   Give the information in division (B) of this section to the Mayor or
Village Administrator. Prepare a written report of the collision and indicate
the serial number, year and make of the vehicle. Promptness in reporting to the
insurance company is important.
   (F)   Prepare an accident report which should include (the Police Department
has the appropriate forms):
      (1)   Serial number, make and type of village-owned vehicle;
      (2)   Driver's name and home address;
      (3)   Location, time and date of collision;
      (4)   Name and address of person(s) involved or witnesses;
      (5)   Name of law enforcement officer who visited the accident scene;
      (6)   Name and address of owner and license number of other vehicle
involved;
      (7)   Nature and details of the collision.
      (8)   If you have access to a camera, photograph damage to each vehicle
involved.
   (G)   If anyone was injured in the collision, or the damage to either
automobile was in excess of $1,000, you are required to file a Motor Vehicle
Accident Report with the State of Ohio. The Police Department has the
appropriate forms.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.270 HANDLING CITIZENS' COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Complaints are important to the village administration, primarily
because they indicate that the desired level of service to the community is not
being performed. We, as employees of the village, are called upon to handle
many complaints, and the manner in which we handle them may have far reaching
results. By ignoring a complaint, an already bad situation may be aggravated;
handled promptly and efficiently, the village's public relations with the
citizens are improved for the betterment of all.
   (B)   When a citizen makes a complaint, it must be remembered; to them their
problem is a real and important one, regardless of what you may think of it. It
is our responsibility to treat the matter with this thought in mind.
   (C)   When handling complaints, be polite and firm but never become angry or
argue with the complainant, even if he/she is unreasonable, angry and insulting
toward you and the village. You should not take their comments personally -
always say "we" instead of "I." Some suggestions for handling an unreasonable
person are:
      (1)   Let the person talk himself/herself out. After a complainant tells
you what is on his/her mind, he/she may calm down and listen to what you have
to say.
      (2)   In your friendliest manner, tell the complainant that you are sorry
that he/she has not received the services they need; do not try to excuse or
justify the actions of the village or yourself.
      (3)   Offer to do what you can to solve the caller's problems. If he/she
wants to see the Mayor or Administrator, try to schedule this for them. This is
no reflection on your own ability, and may go far in calming the complainant
down.
      (4)   Assure the complainant of the good will of the village, and when
the conversation is ended, thank them for calling.
      (5)   Follow-up on all complaints defining the problem and what action
was taken. Notify the appropriate department supervisor of the nature of the
complaint and the relative urgency to resolve the complaint. It is important
that this stage be in written form in case reference is made to the problem at
a later date.
      (6)   Finally, notify the complainant as to what action has been, or will
be taken regarding their complaint.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.280 PURCHASING.
   See § 34.01, Central Purchasing Under Direction of the Village
Administrator.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.290 DISPOSITION OF SURPLUS VILLAGE PROPERTY.
   (A)   It is the policy of this village that all property of the village,
including equipment, supplies, tools and certain saleable refuse is jointly
owned by the residents of this village.
   (B)   Therefore, it follows that any property disposed of shall be done
according to the laws of the State of Ohio and this policy of the village.
   (C)   Any surplus tools, equipment, supplies and saleable refuse including
but not limited to wood, wood chips, paving bricks, etc. shall be disposed of
in accordance with the appropriate procedure.
   (D)   In general, if the property or items to be disposed of has a market
value in excess of $1,000 (per R.C. § 721.15) the sale of such items shall
first be authorized by an ordinance approved by Village Council. The sale shall
be to the highest bidder by public auction or by sealed bid. This sale will
take place after proper advertisement of at least two weeks in a newspaper of
general circulation. The village may also use the internet to post property
listed for sale.
   (E)   If the fair market value is less than $1,000, the property may be
disposed of by the Administrator by sale to anyone offering a fair and
reasonable price for such property. Every effort shall be made to secure the
best sale price for any property sold. Non-saleable items may be disposed of in
any manner deemed appropriate by the Administrator.
   (F)   All funds received from the sale shall be paid to the Fiscal Officer
with a proper receipt issued to the purchaser. With proof of purchase, proper
arrangements for removal of the goods sold will be made with the Administrator
or Mayor.
   (G)   Disposal or removal of surplus goods, equipment or refuse by any
officer or employee of the village, except in conformance with this procedure,
is a violation of village policy and may be construed to be a violation of Ohio
Ethics laws regarding an unlawful interest in a public contract or theft in
office. An exception to this policy is provided to the Police Department for
disposition of seized property or evidence which has been released from custody
which may be disposed of in accordance with specific directives provided under
the Ohio Revised Code.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.300 TELEPHONE, CELLULAR AND/OR RADIO COMMUNICATION ASSIGNMENT AND USE.
   (A)   Personal calls during working hours on any village telephone are
discouraged; however, in the event of an emergency, calls will be accepted and
the message delivered as quickly as possible.
   (B)   The village will provide and pay for a cellular device for the Utility
Department Superintendent and the Village Police Chief. The village will also
provide and pay for a cellular device to be used as a patrol phone. The Mayor,
Village Administrator, Utility Department Staff, Cemetery Sexton, and Cemetery
Clerk will be given a monthly allowance toward their personal cell phones for
using them for village business in the amount of $45 per month.
      (1)   The use of a village cell phone for personal calls is strictly
prohibited. Department supervisors shall monitor the use of village
telecommunications equipment and report any violations to the Fiscal Officer or
Mayor.
      (2)   Employees must safeguard any cellular/radio and pager equipment in
their possession.
      (3)   The loss, or damage, of any cellular/radio device or pager
equipment shall be reported to the employee's supervisor immediately. If theft
is suspected, the Police should also be notified immediately and a Police
report must be completed.
      (4)   Using their cell phone is prohibited while driving. Unless
utilizing a "hands-free" speakerphone option, employees shall stop their
vehicle as soon as safely possible before using a cellular/radio device.
      (5)   Employees shall limit all cell calls to what is reasonably
necessary to conduct village business.
      (6)   When an employee no longer has a demonstrated need for the
cellular/radio device or pager, or when the employee terminates employment with
any village department, that employee shall return any cellular/radio device
and pager equipment to that department.
      (7)   Cost that is associated with excessive and/or personal costs that
are not reimbursed by the employee may be considered theft and will result in
appropriate corrective action.
      (8)   If an employee uses their personal phone to make personal calls,
these calls shall be infrequent and of an emergency nature. Employees may bring
camera phones into the workplace, but they are banned from using the camera
feature except for official village use.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018; Ord. 37-
2021, passed 10-19-2021)
§ 38.310 VILLAGE CREDIT CARD POLICY.
   (A)   Credit cards are for use only when purchase orders are not accepted by
the vendor or to facilitate out of town travel on village business by employees
or officials.
   (B)   The Fiscal Officer is hereby designated as responsible for all credit
card issues, including issuing to employees, collecting receipts, monitoring
statements to compare to receipts, and reporting lost or stolen cards. The
Fiscal Officer and the Mayor shall monitor the use of village credit cards. The
Finance Committee chairman shall review all credit card activity. Only cards
with no annual fees will be acquired, and all accounts shall be paid within the
grace period so no interest is paid. All credit cards shall be issued in the
name of the village unless an individual must be designated.
   (C)   Credit cards may only be used for village purchases. Personal use,
even if reimbursed, is never permitted. Cash advances are never permitted.
   (D)   Lost or stolen credit cards must be reported immediately by the
employee to the Fiscal Officer, who shall report to the issuer as soon as
possible. Any cash back, discounts, coupons, bonuses or other benefits derived
based upon use of the credit card belongs to the village, not to the employee.
   (E)   Any violation of this policy is a basis for discipline up to and
including termination and restitution if necessary.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.320 DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE.
   (A)   The village believes that it is important to provide a safe workplace
for all of its employees. The village is taking steps to address the problem of
substance use that negatively affects every workplace, including ours. The
village is concerned with the health and well-being of all employees. Behaviors
related to substance use can endanger all employees, not just substance users.
We cannot condone, and will not tolerate, behaviors on the part of employees
that relate to substance use and may be grounds for termination of employment,
such as:
      (1)   Use of illegal drugs or misuse of prescription drugs;
      (2)   Misuse of alcohol;
      (3)   Sale, purchase, transfer, trafficking, use or possession of any
illegal drugs; or
      (4)   Arrival or return to work under the influence of any drug (legal or
illegal) or alcohol to the extent that job performance is affected.
   (B)   The village is committed to maintaining a workplace free of illegal
drugs as well as the use of all intoxicating or mind altering substances.
      (1)   The unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or
use of an illegal or controlled substance is prohibited in the workplace and
during working hours.
      (2)   The use of an illegal or controlled substance or alcohol prior to
beginning work or during meal or break periods is prohibited.
      (3)   Use of any illegal substance or abuse of a legal drug is
prohibited. An employee is prohibited from being under the influence of alcohol
or an illegal substance at work.
      (4)   The possession or distribution of alcohol in the workplace is
prohibited.
      (5)   If a supervisor has documented reasonable suspicion to believe that
an employee may have violated division (B)(1) through (4) of this section, the
employer may require the employee to undergo tests for the use of drugs or
alcohol. The employee shall submit to the drug or alcohol testing immediately
upon the request of the employer.
      (6)   Failure to pass a drug or alcohol test may result in immediate
termination of employment.
      (7)   An employee who must use a prescribed medication during work hours
that may impair his or her safety or the safety of others or may otherwise
impair the employee's ability to perform his or her normal work duties shall so
notify the supervisor or department head. The department head may then, at his/
her discretion (1) place the employee on sick leave; (2) reassign the employee
to duties posing no such risk; or (3) have the employee's ability to work
without impairment evaluated by the employee's physician or a physician
selected and paid for by the village.
      (8)   Any village employee involved in a motor vehicle accident or
involved in an accident while operating any motorized village equipment shall
be subject to post accident testing for the possible influence of drugs or
alcohol. At the discretion of the Administrator or Mayor testing will be
conducted following the same protocol applied for random drug tests.
      (9)   An employee who has been convicted of a violation of a criminal
drug statute shall notify his or her department head no later than five days
after such conviction. The village may impose appropriate disciplinary action,
up to and including termination for the first offense.
      (10)   Storage of test results and right to review test results. All
records of drug/alcohol testing will be stored separately and apart from the
employee's general personnel documents. These records shall be maintained under
lock and key at all times. Access is limited to designated village officials.
The information contained in these files shall be utilized only to properly
administer the policy and to provide to certifying agencies for review as
required by law. Designated village officials that shall have access to these
records are charged with the responsibility of maintaining the confidentiality
of these records. Any breach of confidentiality with regard to these records
may be an offense resulting in termination of employment. Any employees tested
under this policy have the right to review and/or receive a copy of their own
test results. An employee may request from the Drug-Free Coordinator, in
writing, presenting a duly notarized Employee Request for Release of Drug Test
Results form, requesting that a copy of the test be provided. The village will
use its best efforts to promptly comply with this request and will issue to the
employee a copy of the results personally or by U.S. Certified Mail, return
receipt requested.
      (11)   Positive test results. Employees who are found to have a confirmed
positive drug or alcohol test will be immediately taken off safety-sensitive
duties and are subject to discipline up to and including termination.
      (12)   Termination notices. In those cases where substance testing
results in the termination of employment, all termination shall be deemed "for
cause."
   (C)   In order to ensure a drug free workplace, all applicants for full-time
employment positions must submit to urine drug tests. An employee-applicant is
not required to submit to a urine drug test if:
      (1)   The village can verify that the employee-applicant has participated
in a valid drug testing program within the proceeding 30 days;
      (2)   While participating in that program, the employee-applicant was
either tested in within the past six months or participated in a random
selection program for the previous 12 months; and
      (3)   No prior employer has knowledge that the employee violated any part
of the regulations within the last six months.
   (D)   Random drug testing.
      (1)   The Mayor of the Village of Bellville shall conduct random drug and
alcohol testing. The village or its agents will submit all employees' names to
a random selection system. The random selection system shall provide an equal
chance for each employee to be selected each time random selection occurs.
Random selections will be reasonably spread throughout the year. The village
shall drug test, at minimum, 50% of the average number of employee positions in
a calendar year or at a higher rate established by the Department of
Transportation for the given year. Random selection, by nature, may result in
employees being selected for successive selections or more than once a calendar
year. Alternatively, some employees may not be testing in a selected calendar
year.
      (2)   If an employee is selected at random, for either drug or alcohol
testing, a village official will notify the employee. Once notified, the
employee must ensure collection occurs as soon as possible but no more than
four hours after receipt of notification. If an employee engages in intentional
conduct that does not lead to a collection within four hours after
notification, such conduct may be considered a refusal to test and may be
treated with the same consequences as a positive drug or alcohol test.
      (3)   The consequences for a positive drug or alcohol test shall be that
same as found in §
38.320(B)(11).
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018; Ord. 12-
2021, passed 4-6-2021)
§ 38.330 HARASSMENT.
   (A)   The village is committed to maintaining a professional and collegial
work environment. Harassment interferes with this desired environment because
it is unwarranted and unwanted verbal or nonverbal conduct which threatens,
intimidates, or insults another person, where such conduct has the effect of
creating an offensive, intimidating, or hostile environment, or interferes with
or adversely affects a person's work performance.
   (B)   The village will not tolerate harassment. All employees are prohibited
from engaging in the harassment of any other employee or other person in the
course of their employment or at village-sponsored functions.
   (C)   Sexual harassment. Sexual harassment includes unwelcome and unwanted
sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal or physical
advances of a sexual nature. It is village policy to fully support enforcement
of state and federal anti-discrimination laws which provide that sexual
harassment is prohibited where:
      (1)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used
as the basis for employment decisions (hiring, evaluating, promoting) affecting
such individuals; or
      (2)   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of interfering with an
individual's work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile, or
offensive working environment.
   (D)   Examples of sexual harassment include, but are not limited to,
unwanted sexual advances; demands for sexual favors in exchange for favorable
treatment or continued employment; sexual jokes, flirtations, advances, or
propositions; verbal abuse of a sexual nature; graphic, verbal commentary about
an individual's body, sexual prowess or sexual deficiencies; touching;
pinching; assault; coerced sexual acts; suggestive insulting, obscene comments,
or gestures; and display in the workplace of sexually suggestive objects or
images.
   (E)   The village will investigate all allegations of harassment and
encourages reporting of all incidents as soon as possible, regardless of who
the offender may be.
   (F)   In any case in which the supervisor is witness to or confronted with a
situation of harassment, the supervisor shall immediately notify the offending
party that the harassment is not appropriate and will not be tolerated. A
supervisor shall report harassment cases to his/her department head, who in
turn, shall report the matter to the Mayor.
   (G)   How to report a complaint:
      (1)   The employee who believes that they are being harassed is
encouraged to confront the individual and let them know the behavior is
unwelcome and ask them to stop.
      (2)   If for any reason, a person being harassed does not wish to
approach the offender directly, or if such action proves unproductive, then the
employee should promptly report the conduct to his or her non-involved
supervisor, department head, or the Mayor. If the accused offender is the
Mayor, then the employee may contact the Law Director.
      (3)   All complaints will be handled in a timely and confidential manner.
Anyone involved should not discuss the subject outside the investigation in
order that the confidentiality of the employee who filed a complaint will be
protected and to encourage the reporting of any incidents of harassment, as
well as to protect the reputation of any employee wrongfully charged with
harassment. Confidentiality cannot be guaranteed, however, as applicable state
and federal sunshine and freedom of information laws makes it impossible to
maintain confidentiality.
      (4)   Protection against retaliation. No employee shall intimidate,
coerce, threaten, retaliate or discriminate against any other employee for
filing a complaint of harassment or for participating in the investigation of a
complaint.
   (H)   An employee may be guilty of abusing this process if the employee
maliciously makes a false claim of unlawful harassment. Abuse of this process
may subject an employee to disciplinary action up to and including termination.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.340 ELECTRONIC MAIL, INTERNET AND COMPUTER USE POLICY.
   (A)   Scope. This policy applies to the use of all village-owned or leased
computers, including desktop, laptop and other portable computers such as
iPads, and also including cellular telephones (i.e. BlackBerry, Palm, Apple and
other "smart phones" with text message capabilities as well as access to the
internet, and the receipt, sending and storage of electronic messages,
hereinafter referred to as "computer equipment and system." This computer
equipment and system is provided in order to allow village employees to perform
their duties more efficiently and may be used only in full compliance with this
policy.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this policy is to ensure the proper,
acceptable use of the village's computer equipment and system. The village
reserves the right to amend this policy at its discretion. Internet, e-mail or
online services users expressly waive any right of privacy in anything they
create, store, send or receive on the village's computer system. The village
may at any time or from time to time and without notice monitor internet, e-
mail or online services usage without prior notification. If there is evidence
of violation of this policy, the village may initiate disciplinary action,
including termination and/or legal action. This policy does not grant the
employee any contractual rights.
   (C)   Requirements. The computer equipment and system are business tools.
Users are obliged to use these tools in a responsible, effective and lawful
manner and in accordance with this policy. The following rules are hereby
created by the village and are to be strictly adhered to:
      (1)   The computer equipment and system are intended to be used primarily
for village business purposes. Uses which involve solicitation or are
associated with any outside for-profit business activities or activities which
could potentially embarrass the village are strictly forbidden.
      (2)   Employees shall not use the computer equipment and system for
operating an outside business for personal gain, sending chain letters,
forwarding non-village related e-mails, soliciting money for religious,
political or any other cause, or visiting social networking sites such as
Facebook or Twitter. An exception is granted to Police Officers during the
conduct of a specific investigation.
      (3)   Employees shall not use the computer equipment and system to
transmit or download material that is offensive, obscene, pornographic,
threatening, or racially or sexually harassing.
      (4)   Employees shall not use the computer equipment and system to make
unauthorized entry or illegal entry into any part of the village's computer
which the employee is not authorized to access.
      (5)   Employees shall not use the computer equipment and system to
disseminate or print copyrighted materials (including articles and software) in
violation of copyright laws.
      (6)   Employees shall not use the computer equipment and system to gain
access to confidential information except as part of the employee's job
responsibility. Employees shall not use these services to provide access to
public information without following the existing rules and procedures of the
village and/or the Ohio Revised Code for dissemination.
      (7)   Employees shall not use an internet, e-mail or online services
account or signature line other than their own, nor shall any employee disguise
or attempt to disguise the source of an e-mail sent.
      (8)   Employees shall take all reasonable precautions to prevent the
inadvertent dissemination of anyone else's information via the internet, e-mail
or online services.
      (9)   The computer equipment and system are subject to limitations as
imposed by this policy to prevent excessive or improper use. Although the
computer equipment and system are meant for business use, the village allows
occasional personal usage if it does not interfere with work. However, all
messages distributed or received via the village's e-mail system are the
village's property.
      (10)   Employees are also reminded that access to and use of the
internet, including communication by e-mail, is not confidential.
      (11)   Employees shall not delete an e-mail message which constitutes a
public record that has not met or exceeded the appropriate retention period as
set forth by the Village Records Commission unless printed and retained. E-
mails that are strictly of a personal or incidental nature and having no
administrative necessity, and not defined as a public record may be
periodically deleted.
      (12)   Employees are reminded that deleted e-mails can still be recovered
by the village.
      (13)   Employees shall not engage in unauthorized interference or
tampering with any hardware device which is used within the system or in the
connection to an outside network, shall not delete any browsing history or
cookies, and shall not add any hardware or software, including screen savers,
without approval.
   (D) Records management and e-mail retention. E-mail and/or online services
are a means of transmission of messages or information and are considered a
record if they meet the criteria of Ohio's public records laws, R.C. § 149.01.1
(G). The content of e-mail or online services messages will vary considerably,
and therefore this content must be evaluated to determine the length of time
the e-mail must be retained. Scheduling and retaining e-mail or online services
messages shall be established by the Village Records Commission.
   (E)   Encryption. Users may not encrypt any e-mails, except in PDF where
appropriate, without obtaining written permission from the village.
   (F)   Avoidance of confidential information. Because e-mail and/or online
services transmissions are public records, they should not be used to discuss
questions of liability or any matters that could or do involve potential,
threatened or pending claims or lawsuits against the village. Certain
confidential communications between the Police Department and the Law Director
or another attorney may be exempt from Public Records Law under attorney/client
privilege or under R.C. § 149.43.
   (G)   Viruses. Computer viruses are more and more prevalent in today's
world. They can cause considerable damage to a computer or entire network. An
infected computer may not be readily identified, even though damage may be
occurring. The utmost care must be taken in adhering to strict anti-virus
precautions. These include:
      (1)   Do not use or exchange disks or diskettes with other outside
computers, including an employee's home computer.
      (2)   Do not download programs from the internet or electronic bulletin
boards without express approval.
      (3)   Do not activate programs that have been attached to an e-mail
message unless necessary to carry out village business and received from a
reliable source.
      (4)   Do not open e-mails from unknown or suspicious sources. Seek
technical assistance whenever necessary to avoid infection of the village
system with a virus.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.350 DISCIPLINE AND GRIEVANCES.
   (A)   An employee may be disciplined for just cause which includes
incompetence, inefficiency, dishonesty, alcohol/drug abuse, immoral conduct,
insubordination, neglect of duty, conviction of criminal charges, misfeasance
(improper performance), malfeasance (misconduct), or nonfeasance (failure to
act), violent conduct, violation of village policies and procedures or an
accumulation of minor infractions.
   (B)   The following may be considered in determining appropriate discipline:
      (1)   Seriousness of incident;
      (2)   Circumstances surrounding the incident;
      (3)   Employee's disciplinary history with village;
      (4)   Overall negative impact of incident on the organization;
      (5)   Probability of future similar infractions; and
      (6)   Other pertinent factors.
   (C)   The following types of disciplinary action may be administered:
      (1)   Verbal reprimand;
      (2)   Written reprimand;
      (3)   Suspension without pay;
      (4)   Demotion; and
      (5)   Termination.
   (D)   Disciplinary action should be initiated at the immediate supervisory
level. Disciplinary cases shall be discussed with and approved by the Mayor and
Village Solicitor prior to taking disciplinary action.
   (E)   A copy of all recommended disciplinary actions shall be sent to the
Fiscal Officer for inclusion in the employee's personnel file following
disciplinary action.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.351 PRE-DISCIPLINARY CONFERENCE.
   (A)   All disciplinary action involving reduction, suspension or removal of
any employee shall be subject to a pre-disciplinary conference before the Mayor
prior to formal disciplinary action. The Fiscal Officer or the Village
Administrator will be asked to serve as a witness in this process.
   (B)   At this pre-disciplinary conference, the employee is entitled to have
a representative or an attorney present at his/her own expense to respond to
the notice of the charges against them and a statement of the evidence
supporting the charges. An employee shall be granted an opportunity to respond
in person, or through an attorney, or in writing to any charges.
   (C)   Within 14 days following the pre-disciplinary conference, the Mayor
shall implement the appropriate disciplinary action, and will issue a final
written decision to the employee. In matters of discipline of police officers,
the procedures of the Ohio Revised Code shall be followed.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.352 APPEALS FROM DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS.
   Appeals from disciplinary actions may be taken in accordance with, and to
the extent provided by the Ohio Revised Code. This policy does NOT grant or
authorize any right of appeal not otherwise granted by the Ohio Revised Code.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.360 MISCELLANEOUS POLICIES.
   (A)   Employee work areas, lockers, cabinets and vehicles. In order to
maintain security and to operate efficiently, village management reserves the
right to have complete access to all village work areas, property, offices, and
equipment. Accordingly, employees who store personal items in village-owned
lockers, desks, cabinets, storage areas, or vehicles do so at their own risk
and should have no expectation of privacy for items maintained in these areas.
   (B)   Personnel files.
      (1)   The village shall maintain official personnel files for all
employees.
      (2)   Under current Ohio public records law, the village cannot assure
absolute confidentiality of these records.
      (3)   Employees must advise their department head, Administrator, Chief
of Police, or Fiscal Officer, as appropriate, of any change in name, address,
marital status, telephone number, and any other pertinent personnel-related
information.
      (4)   An employee shall have a right to inspection of their own personnel
files.
   (C)   Employment-related reference checks. All requests for a reference for
a current or former employee, whether in writing or by telephone, shall be
referred to the Mayor or Chief of Police. No other employee shall respond to
any request for a reference or other information regarding the work performance
of a current or former employee.
   (D)   Tobacco policy.
      (1)   Employees shall not smoke or use smokeless tobacco products while
on duty unless they are on break and remain in a designated smoking area.
      (2)   Employees are not permitted to smoke or use smokeless tobacco
products while in any village owned vehicle or facility.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.370 RESIGNATION AND DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Should an employee wish to resign and the village requests sufficient
notice to fill the vacated position. For clerical and non-professional
positions, this will be two week's notice which does not include scheduled time
off; for professional and supervisory personnel this will be a minimum of one
month. Final paychecks will be issued on the next scheduled pay day following
the last day worked.
   (B)   Employees who are discharged will be notified of such discharge in
person by their immediate supervisor and/or the Mayor. The employee shall be
asked to turn in all village property and to leave their workplace immediately
after termination. No advance notice of discharge, or salary in lieu thereof,
will be given the employee whose conduct jeopardizes the work of the village.
Should it become necessary to discharge an employee, his/her check will be
ready on the next payroll processing date after discharge, and will only be
issued upon surrender of all village owned property, uniforms or equipment.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.380 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of these rules and
regulations is found to be illegal, such findings shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portions of these rules and regulations. In the event of a
conflict between any sections of these regulations, or with another village
ordinance, the Village Solicitor will determine which regulations take
precedence.
(Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
POLICE HANDBOOK
§ 38.510 INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   This manual has been prepared by the village to provide guidance with
respect to your job; its benefits and responsibilities. Please read this manual
carefully to become familiar with your employment responsibilities and the
benefits provided for you. After reading this manual, if you still have
questions, you are welcome to discuss them with your supervisor or the Village
Administrator, Mayor, or Fiscal Officer. The policies and procedures set forth
in this manual are designed to promote safety, high morale, and foster good
working relationships among employees of the various departments and offices of
the village by providing consistent and well-understood personnel policies,
equal opportunities for advancement, and appropriate consideration of employee
needs.
   (B)   The village hopes your employment with us will be rewarding. We are a
dynamic organization that will occasionally implement changes in these policies
and regulations for the betterment of our village.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.520 ESTABLISHMENT OF POSITIONS AND COMPENSATION.
   All positions to be staffed by village employees shall be first established
by Village Council. Village Council shall also possess the exclusive authority
to establish rates of compensation and benefits for village employees.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.530 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY.
   (A)   (1)   It is hereby declared personnel policy of the village that the
village will provide equal employment opportunity for all qualified applicants
and employees consistent with the requirements of state and federal law.
Accordingly, discrimination against any person or employee because of race,
color, religion, sex, age, marital status, national origin, citizenship status,
disability, or veteran status in each instance as proscribed by state or
federal law shall be prohibited.
      (2)   Equal opportunity extends to all aspects of the employment
relationship, including hiring, promotions, training, dismissals, working
conditions, compensation, benefits, and other terms and conditions of
employment.
   (B)   Village policy expressly prohibits discriminatory hiring and personnel
practices against qualified individuals with disabilities. Reasonable
accommodation of known physical or mental limitations will be made, unless the
accommodation would pose an undue hardship on the village. Individuals will not
be placed in positions where, with or without a reasonable accommodation, they
create a direct threat to the safety or health of themselves or others. The
determination that an individual poses a direct threat will be confirmed by an
opinion in writing from an appropriate professional selected by the village.
   (C)   An employee or applicant for employment who believes that he/she has
been discriminated against on the grounds of age, race, national origin, color,
religion, sex, marital status, ancestry, or disability may consult with the
Fiscal Officer who is hereby designated the village's Equal Employment
Opportunity Officer (EEOO) in an effort to resolve the matter. If the matter
cannot be resolved to the aggrieved party's satisfaction, the aggrieved party
shall be informed in writing of his/her right to file a formal complaint with
the EEOC of Ohio.
   (D)   In addition to the duties described above, the EEOO shall be
responsible for (1) seeing that all announcements or advertisements for
positions of employment with this village contain information that informs
applicants that the village is an equal opportunity employer; (2) collect and
keep in a separate confidential file all voluntary data forms compiled for
affirmative action purposes.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.540 APPLICANTS.
   Each prospective employee shall complete and submit an application form with
qualifications to be reviewed by the Police Chief and Mayor then submitted for
approval by the Village Council.
   (A)   An applicant shall be required to provide any information and undergo
any examinations necessary to demonstrate qualification for the position
sought, insofar as such information or examination is job-related, including
criminal background checks, driving history checks, medical examinations,
fitness tests, and any other information requests and testing as deemed
necessary for evaluation of the candidate for employment.
   (B)   The appointing authority shall make the appointment conditional
pending the passing of the necessary checks or tests as referenced in division
(A) of this section.
   (C)   The applicant may be scheduled for a post-offer medical examination
and may subsequently receive a drug test by a village-contracted medical
facility. Such examinations are taken to ensure that the selected job
applicants are professionally qualified to perform the essential duties of the
position. Failure to pass a physical and/or drug test may be grounds for
elimination from the selection process.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.550 WAGES AND COMPENSATION.
   (A)   An annual salary and pay rate schedule for the village employees shall
be prepared by the Finance Committee of the Village Council and presented to
Council by the second meeting in February of each year. Said pay rate shall be
effective the first pay period of April in that year. In the event of inaction,
the schedule then existing shall remain in place.
   (B)   No employee of the village work force shall be paid a wage lower than
the minimum rates as established in the Fair Labor Standards Act 29 U.S.C. 201
et seq. or pursuant to Article II, Section 34(a) of the Ohio Constitution,
whichever is higher. Every village employee shall be advised of the starting
rate of pay before beginning employment.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.560 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Mayor and Council shall appoint officers in accordance with the
Ohio Revised Code.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall serve as the appointing authority for all
non-uniformed employees of this department subject to approval by the Mayor.
   (C)   Nepotism.
      (1)   Immediate family members shall not be hired into the same
department. The employment of persons who establish immediate family
relationships after employment shall be prohibited if such employment will
result in one immediate family member exercising supervision over the other or
otherwise having the ability to influence the terms or conditions of the
other's employment.
      (2)   For the purpose of this policy, IMMEDIATE FAMILY shall be defined
as the following relatives of the employee or the employee's spouse: spouse,
parent, child or sibling including the spouse of any such relatives; and the
following relatives of the employee: aunt, uncle, nephew, niece, first cousin,
grandparent or grandchild including the spouse of any such relatives. In the
case of village employees who become immediate family members after employment
and whose relationship would violate the policy as set forth herein, the
employees shall determine which of them will seek employment elsewhere in the
village or, as necessary, outside the organization. Said decision shall be
conveyed in writing to the appropriate department head and Human Resources
Director no later than 30 days from  the date the relationship was legally
established. Said employees will be given a reasonable period of time, not to
exceed 90 days from the date the relationship is legally established, to make
that decision. If the decision is not made within 90 days, the village reserves
the right to transfer, demote or dismiss the affected employee(s) to resolve
the nepotism violation. In the case of dismissal, the most senior of the
employees, as determined by length of service with the village, will be
retained. If seniority is equal, the village shall consider the qualifications
and job performance of the employees in determining which will be retained.
      (3)   This policy shall cover the immediate family relationships of all
employees of the village whether they are part-time or full-time.
      (4)   This policy is not intended to alter the employment terms of any
current full-time or part-time employee whose employment violates the above
provision but did not violate the policy in force at the time of employment or
at the time the immediate family relationship took place. In the case of a
part-time employee who is separated from employment at the end of a season,
said employee shall be allowed to reapply for employment, providing re-
application is made for the next season and is in the same capacity that the
village the employee worked prior to separation. Department managers shall
assure that supervisory and work assignments of said employees minimize the
appearance of and opportunity for conflicts of interest or impropriety.
Department managers and the Human Resources Division shall assure that these
"grandfathered" exceptions gradually cease as attrition occurs.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.570 ORIENTATION/PROBATION PERIOD.
   (A)   Your immediate supervisor will see that you are acquainted with your
fellow employees and informed of the duties and responsibilities of your job.
He/she will be available to answer questions, offer advice and to inform you of
your work progress. You should also receive any specific rules/regulations
regarding your specific job, starting and ending times for your shift, and
forms for recording work time, work logs, and any other required documents that
you may be expected to maintain and file. The first 90 calendar days of
employment shall be considered an orientation/probation period during which you
have an opportunity to acclimate yourself to your job and your fellow
employees, and it gives your supervisor an opportunity to observe your work
habits, skills, and suitability for your job. At the end of the orientation
period, or sooner, your performance will be evaluated by your supervisor. This
evaluation will be reviewed with you and your supervisor may offer suggestions
of how your performance can be improved. Your supervisor will submit one of the
following recommendations:
      (1)   Retain as permanent employee;
      (2)   Extension of orientation period for no more than 90 calendar days;
or
      (3)   Unsuited for employment.
   (B)   While full-time and part-time permanently appointed sworn police
officers are entitled to continuing employment once they have completed their
probationary period and can be removed only for just cause, other employees of
the village have no guarantee of permanent employment. Such employees work at
the pleasure of Village Council and nothing in this handbook shall be construed
to create any right to permanent or continuing employment of any other village
employee. The general law of Ohio as it applies to village employees pertains
in Bellville and nothing in this handbook shall be construed to create any
property right or expectancy of continued employment for village employees
except that provided by law for full-time and part-time permanently appointed
sworn police officers. No employee or official of this village is authorized to
change this policy or otherwise promise any employee a position for a specific
period of time. This policy does not apply to auxiliary police officers.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.580 EMPLOYEE STATUS.
   (A)   All village employees are to be classified as full-time, part-time,
temporary or seasonal, auxiliary, or probationary employee as defined below:
      (1)   Full-time regular employee. An employee normally scheduled to work
a minimum of 32 hours per week, or some other regular and consistent work
schedule such as Utilities Department shifts.
      (2)   Part-time employee. An employee who is normally scheduled to work
less than 32 hours per week.
      (3)   A contractual employee. One who is employed by a special contract,
ordinance, or other agreement within the village.
      (4)   Probationary employees. Serve at the will of the appointing
authority, and may be removed at any time during the probationary period.
      (5)   Exempt employees are those supervisory employees who are paid a
fixed salary and meet the criteria for exempt employees under the Federal Fair
Labor Standards Act.
      (6)   Non-exempt employees are all those who do not meet the criteria for
exempt employees.
   (B)   Part-time employees who work 20 or more hours per week are entitled to
paid life insurance benefits. All employees are eligible for Bureau of Workers'
Compensation coverage.
   (C)   Auxiliary employees are not entitled to any benefits except Workers’
Compensation insurance unless they meet the criteria above.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.590 COMPENSATION AND HOURS OF WORK.
   (A)   Pay periods. The employee of the village shall be paid every two weeks
by Friday, with department heads approving and submitting time sheets to the
Administrator or Mayor for the pay period by 9:00 a.m. on the Monday
immediately preceding each payday. Should a payday fall on a holiday, the
payday will move to the day before the holiday.
   (B)   Elected officials, including Council members, zoning inspectors, and
members of the Cemetery Board, shall be paid monthly except as determined by
separate contract.
   (C)   Overtime, non-exempt. Supervisors will be accountable for controlling
overtime situations and the associated expense. Whenever possible, work
schedules shall be adjusted to avoid or reduce routine overtime work. In
situations where unexpected changes in workload require additional hours
mandated by the supervisor, overtime hours may be authorized.
   (D)   Overtime work shall, whenever possible, be on a voluntary basis,
however an employee's supervisor, or the supervisor's designee, reserves the
right to require any employee to work extra hours when the need arises. All
overtime must be authorized by the appropriate department head or the Mayor or
Administrator.
   (E)   Scheduled hours.
      (1)   The current weekly payroll period shall begin at 12:01 a.m. on
Monday and continue for seven consecutive days to end at 12:00 midnight the
following Sunday. Department heads shall establish the appropriate work
schedule for their department, in consideration of public service, workload,
and operational needs after approval by the Administrator or Mayor.
      (2)   All employees working a full work shift will, to the extent
practicable, receive a meal period that is normally one unpaid half hour,
except those working in the Police Department. Designated lunch periods are not
compensated as work time; therefore, employees shall be relieved from work for
that time period. Employees shall not waive/forfeit their meal or break periods
to reduce their workday or work week.
      (3)   With the exception of employees exempt from overtime according to
the Fair Labor Standards Act, employees shall be entitled to overtime
compensation at the rate of one and one-half hours for each hour worked in
excess of 40 hours or other permitted work schedule in the designated work
week. For purposes of calculating overtime pay, sick leave shall be excluded.
      (4)   Compensatory time may be granted to nonexempt employees only in
lieu of cash for any overtime worked. Compensatory time is accrued at a rate of
one and one-half time basis, and may be used at a time mutually convenient to
the employee and the village. Employees may "bank" compensatory time, but under
no circumstances shall an employee "bank" more than 80 hours of unused
compensatory time without the approval of the Village Mayor. Compensatory time
will be used by the last pay period of November in each year and if not used it
will be paid out the first pay of December in each year in which there will not
be retirement benefits included per OP&F pension rules.
      (5)   Whenever a nonexempt employee is called into work at a time other
than his/her planned work schedule, thereby necessitating additional travel to
and from work, he/she shall be guaranteed two hours of pay. Utility Department
employees required to perform weekend checks and sampling shall be compensated
for a minimum of two hours for each day, or for actual hours worked, whichever
is greater.
      (6)   During any given work week, a supervisor may alter an employee's
schedule, hour for hour, to avoid the employee working in excess of the regular
scheduled work week of 40 hours.
      (7)   Village employees shall not serve as a volunteer for the same job
in which he/she is employed full time by the village.
      (8)   Break periods shall be granted only at the discretion of the
supervisor and may be granted only to the extent practicable without
interference with normal work operations.
      (9)   The workweek in the Police Department will vary from the normal
workweek stated above. The Chief of Police will establish specific shift
schedules for that department.
      (10)   In order to avoid undue hardship on employees, advance notice of
schedule changes will be given whenever possible. You are expected to be at
your assigned job punctually at starting time and remain until proper quitting
time.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.591 MILITARY LEAVE.
   The village will comply with federal and state laws regarding military duty.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.600 PAID TIME OFF.
   (A)   Scheduled paid time off is distinguished from unscheduled paid time
off by the degree of control or discretion that the village, through its
supervisors and department heads, exercises in the scheduling of leave time.
   (B)   Scheduled leave.
      (1)   The scheduling of time off shall be at the discretion of the
supervisor and/or department head based upon operational considerations. Every
effort will be made to accommodate the employee's requested dates for paid time
off.
      (2)   To be considered scheduled leave, a leave request form must be
submitted in advance of the use of the leave to the supervisor or department
head and the supervisor or department head shall have the option of denying or
rescheduling the leave to another date and/or time based upon operational or
business considerations.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.601 SICK LEAVE.
   Sick leave is a benefit provided to eligible employees to aid them in
offsetting the financial burden of an illness. Employees are expected to be in
attendance daily, and sick leave is only to be used in cases of illness or
recovery from an injury. Sick leave is a form of insurance, and is not intended
to be extra days off.
   (A)   An employee may request sick leave for absence resulting from illness
or injury as described below:
      (1)   Illness or injury of the employee or a member of his or her
immediate family: mother, father, brother, sister, child, step-child or spouse.
      (2)   Exposure of an employee or a member of his or her immediate family
to a contagious disease, that would have the potential of seriously
jeopardizing the health of the employee or the health of others.
      (3)   Death of a member of the employee's immediate family or extended
family (family of spouse), in excess of what is permitted under funeral leave
in §
38.606. This extended leave is at the discretion of the department head.
      (4)   Medical, dental, optical, or psychological examinations or
treatment of employee or a member of his or her immediate family, requiring the
employee's presence.
      (5)   Pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions of the
employee or member of his or her immediate family.
   (B)   Sick leave accrual. All eligible employees of the village shall earn
sick leave at a rate of six hours per month that are actually worked, which
time may be accumulated to a maximum of 960 hours.
   (C)   Transfer of sick leave. Employees who transfer from another public
agency, or who are reappointed to the workforce may be credited with a
negotiated amount of sick leave. The words "public agency" as used above
include the state, counties, municipalities, all boards of education,
libraries, townships, and other public appointing authorities within the State
of Ohio.
   (D)   Notification. In the event that the employee is unable to work due to
unforeseen personal illness or injury, or for other unforeseen reasons, the
following provisions shall apply:
      (1)   If unable to report for work for any reason, employees shall
communicate this fact to the supervisor or his/her designee, as early as
required by the individual operating department but not less than one-half hour
before the start of your shift. Such notification shall be made each time a
scheduled work shift will be missed unless authorization has been granted by
the supervisor covering a prolonged absence of specified duration. Employees
failing to comply with this provision (except for a showing of good cause to
the appropriate supervisor, and if approved for pay by the department head),
shall not be paid for an unscheduled absence. Furthermore, absences not
reported in accordance with these provisions shall be subject to disciplinary
action.
      (2)   Three unscheduled occurrences without medical documentation in a
six-month period could result in disciplinary action. All consecutive workday
absences due to the same illness shall be considered as one occasion for the
purpose of this policy.
      (3)   Any employee of the village who shall miss more than three
consecutive days of regularly scheduled work without written prior notice and
written approval by the Mayor, Administrator or Chief of Police or without a
reasonable and verifiable excuse may be subjected to immediate termination.
   (E)   Medical assessment prior to return to work. In the case of any
unscheduled use of general leave due to personal illness or injury, the
supervisor or department head may require, at the expense of the employee,
medical confirmation that the employee was unable to perform work during said
leave. The village reserves the right to require that such confirmation is
obtained from the village's health care provider. If the employee is required
to obtain confirmation from the village's health care provider, said
confirmation shall be at the village's expense.
   (F)   Transitional work.
      (1)   The village recognizes that in particular circumstances of an
employee's injury or illness, an employee is not able to return to work in a
full duty work status; but is capable of performing limited job assignments.
Such assignments are temporary, and are not to be considered an accommodation
to a permanent illness or injury.
      (2)   The determination of placing an employee on transitional work
status shall be made by the Village Administrator and Mayor. The village is not
required to provide transitional work.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.602 HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   All full-time employees are entitled to the following paid holidays,
also holidays are paid to the Administrator and part-time office personnel when
the holiday falls on a scheduled work day.
      New Year's Day
      Good Friday
      Memorial Day
      Independence Day
      Labor Day
      Veterans Day
      Thanksgiving Day
      Day after Thanksgiving
      Christmas Eve
      Christmas Day
      New Year's Eve
   (B)   If a holiday falls on a Saturday, then it will be observed on the
preceding Friday. If the holiday falls on a Sunday, the holiday will be
observed on the following Monday.
   (C)   In observance of each authorized holiday, employees will normally be
granted the day off from work. Full-time employees shall receive eight hours'
straight time pay for each authorized holiday. Employees on alternative work
schedules, such as the Utilities Department or Police Department shall be paid
accordingly.
   (D)   When a full-time employee is required to work on the day observed as a
holiday, he/she shall be entitled to pay for such time actually worked at one
and one-half times his/her regular base rate of pay.
   (E)   If a holiday occurs while an employee is on vacation, that day will
not be charged against the employee's leave (i.e., one day off with pay, as if
not on vacation).
   (F)   Employees must be in active duty status the day before and the day
after the holiday and at the commencement of the holiday in order to receive
holiday pay unless on approved scheduled leave.
   (G)   Upon the request of the supervisor, an employee must produce a
satisfactory physician's statement to verify any use of sick leave on the day
before or the day after a holiday. Failure to produce such a requested
statement may result in denial of both holiday and sick leave pay and such
disciplinary action as may be appropriate.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.603 VACATION, PERSONAL LEAVE, AND PAID TIME OFF.
   (A)   All full-time employees who have more than one year of continuous
service with the village are eligible for vacation in accordance with the
following schedule. Each employee's eligibility for vacation shall be
determined on each employee's anniversary date of employment.
 
TIME EMPLOYED
After six months of employment      16 hours of vacation
One year but less than two years    40 hours of vacation (less any hours
                                    already taken)
Two years but less than seven years 80 hours of vacation
Seven years but less than 14 years  120 hours of vacation
Fifteen years or more               160 hours of vacation
 
   (B)   Vacation leave accrues while on paid status except injury leave. No
vacation credit is earned while an employee is on unpaid status.
   (C)   Vacation leave shall be taken in units of not less than one hour.
   (D)   Vacations are scheduled at management's discretion in accordance with
workload requirements of the individual departments.
   (E)   Due to department operational requirements, management may block out
periods of time which are not available for vacation.
   (F)   Up to 40 hours of an employee's unused yearly vacation leave may be
carried over into the next vacation year only under extenuating circumstances
and only with prior approval by the Mayor. No more than one week of unused
vacation leave may be carried forward at any time.
   (G)   Vacation time will be credited upon the employee's anniversary date of
employment. Upon an employee's retirement, vacation time earned by that
employee will be pro-rated. If an employee leaves the village for any other
reason, vacation hours will not be pro-rated.
   (H)   In the case of death of an employee, the employee's accrued vacation
leave will be converted to a lump sum payment payable to the employee's
beneficiary or estate.
   (I)   Personal leave. After six months of employment or completion of the
employee's probation period, each full-time employee shall be allowed three
personal leave days per year. Time off for personal business shall be taken in
no less than two-hour increments, at the discretion of the department head.
Personal days cannot be carried over to the next calendar year.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.604 FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE.
   Consistent with the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (FMLA), full-time,
part-time and seasonal employees may be entitled to a family or medical leave
of absence if certain conditions are met.
   (A)   Eligibility for family and medical leave.
      (1)   Any employee who has been employed by the village for at least 12
months, and who has worked at least 1,250 hours with the village during the 12
months preceding the request for a leave of absence, shall be eligible for a
family or medical leave of up to 12 weeks in a 12 month period.
      (2)   An eligible employee may take family or medical leave for the
following reasons:
         (a)   To care for a newborn child or newly adopted or newly placed
foster care child, as long as the leave is taken in the year following the
child's birth or placement;
         (b)   To care for their child, spouse, or parent who has a serious
health condition; or
         (c)   To attend to their own serious health condition which prevents
them from performing the functions of their job.
   (B)   Length of leave.
      (1)   Each eligible employee may be granted FMLA leave for a period up to
12 workweeks during any 12-month period, measured backward from the date an
employee uses FMLA, with the following exception.
      (2)   When a husband and wife both work for the village, the two
employees are limited to a combined total of 12 weeks of leave during any 12
month period following the birth or placement of a child. If the leave is
necessitated by the serious health condition of the employee or that of the
employee's spouse or child, the employees are not limited to a combined total
of 12 weeks.
   (C)   Substitution of other leave programs. If an employee is entitled to
paid leave the employee must take the paid leave as provided under the other
leave programs and must simultaneously request FMLA leave. Use of paid leave
does not extend the family or medical leave of absence period. The total of
paid and unpaid leave provided shall not exceed 12 workweeks unless
specifically approved by the employee's department head. When accrued leave has
been exhausted or does not apply, FMLA leave shall be without pay.
   (D)   Reduced work schedule/intermittent leave.
      (1)   Employees taking leave because of their own or their eligible
family member's serious health condition may take their 12 weeks of FMLA leave
intermittently or on a reduced hour's basis, if such leave is medically
necessary. Certification of medical necessity shall be required. If
intermittent or reduced hours leave is required, the village may, in its sole
discretion, temporarily transfer the employee to another job with equivalent
pay and benefits that better accommodates the employee's recurring periods of
leave.
      (2)   Employees taking leave to care for a newly born or newly placed
child do not have the legal right to take intermittent leave; such a request
for intermittent leave may be approved by the employee's department head.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.605 COURT LEAVE.
   (A)   The village shall pay court leave according to an employee's regular
salary when an employee is summoned for any jury duty or subpoenaed as a
witness by any court or other legal proceeding regarding village business
during the employee's regularly scheduled work day.
   (B)   Employees should honor any subpoena issued to them for testimony
involving village business, including those from state or local agencies
involving workers' compensation and unemployment compensation.
   (C)   All compensation received from the summoning agency for such duty
shall be paid to the village unless such duty is performed completely outside
of normal work hours.
   (D)   The employee will be expected to report to work following jury duty,
if a reasonable amount of time remains during his or her scheduled work day.
   (E)   An employee shall not be entitled to paid court leave for any matter
in which the employee has a personal interest or in which the village is an
adverse party.
   (F)   If an employee is taking part in a court case not related to their
village employment, he/she must use vacation leave, compensatory time off, or
leave without pay for the period of absence.
   (G)   The village will have to evaluate, on a case-by-case basis, paying for
extended leaves for jury duty beyond 30 workdays.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.606 FUNERAL LEAVE.
   (A)   Full-time employees will be granted up to three days leave with pay at
their regular hourly rate of pay for scheduled work days lost because of death
in their immediate family. Immediate family means the employees mother, father,
mother-in-law, father-in-law, spouse, children, stepchildren, brother, and
sister, grandparents, grandchildren, grandparents-in-law.
   (B)   Full-time employees will be granted one day leave due to death of non-
immediate family member. Non-immediate family means the employees brother-in-
law, sister-in-law, aunts and uncles and other village employees.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.607 MATERNITY LEAVE.
   The expectant mother must furnish the payroll office with a physician's
statement giving anticipated date of delivery. The village may request a
written authorization from your physician for you to continue working during
any time of your pregnancy or before your return to work. Maternity leave shall
be considered the same as any other sick leave accumulated by village
employees. Unused vacation time may be used to supplement accrued sick leave.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.608 UNSCHEDULED LEAVE.
   In the event that an employee must be off the job on an unscheduled basis
and has not accrued paid time off to cover the absence, he/she may request
leave without pay which must be approved by the Mayor, Administrator or Chief
of Police.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.609 LEAVE WITHOUT PAY.
   (A)   The appointing authority may grant a leave of absence without pay to a
regular full-time or part-time employee for a maximum duration of one year for
an extraordinary personal reason. Such leave may not be renewed or extended
beyond one year.
   (B)   Leave without pay may be granted for a maximum period of one year for
purposes of education, training, or specialized experience which would be of
benefit to the village service by improved performance at any level; or for
voluntary service in any government-sponsored program.
   (C)   The decision whether to grant a leave of absence without pay lies in
the sole discretion of the appointing authority.
   (D)   Excessive use of unscheduled general leave. The unscheduled use of
paid time off, which is considered excessive by the supervisor and department
head, may be subject to progressive discipline.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.610 EXPECTATIONS OF EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Work habits. All employees are expected to maintain competency to
properly perform the duties of their position. Employees shall perform their
duties in a manner which reflects the high standards of the village with
regards to effectiveness in safely and efficiently carrying out our mission,
functions, and objectives.
   (B)   Punctuality. It is essential that you report for work at your
scheduled hour. Late reporting and early departing shall be paid accordingly
and may be subject to disciplinary action.
   (C)   Conflict of interest.
      (1)   No employee will accept from any contractor or supplier doing
business with the village, any material or service for the private use of the
employee.
      (2)   No employee shall represent private interests in any action or
proceedings against the interest of the village in any matter in which the
village is part.
      (3)   State law prohibits employees and officials from having a financial
interest in companies which do business with public agencies with minor
exemptions. Employees who have any doubt concerning possible violation of these
statutes are advised to consult their own attorney.
      (4)   Violations of this code may constitute a cause of suspension,
removal from office or employment to other disciplinary action.
   (D)   Courtesy. Village employees are representatives of the Village of
Bellville and as such, their behavior and courtesy reflect upon the village.
Therefore, it is expected that all village employees will display tact and
courtesy when dealing with the public and with other village employees at all
times. Rude or inconsiderate behavior or public insults or profanity will not
be tolerated.
   (E)   Political activity. Village employees are prohibited from engaging in
political activity while on duty.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.611 APPEARANCE AND UNIFORMS.
   (A)   Village Council and the administration shall prescribe the appropriate
standards for dress and grooming that presents a positive image for the
village.
   (B)   Uniformed employees. Employees required to wear a uniform are expected
to wear them properly and keep them well maintained. Your uniform identifies
you as a village employee. Safety shoes shall be worn by employees of the
cemetery, streets, parks, and utilities staff.
   (C)   Non-uniformed employees.
      (1)   Business-casual attire is the minimal acceptable level of attire.
Logo clothing in support of the Village of Bellville, Clear Fork Local Schools,
or other colleges and universities are permitted, unless otherwise specified.
Employees are still expected to present a neat appearance.
      (2)   Employees are not permitted at any time to wear flip-flop sandals,
cut-off pants, halter or crop tops, or any other clothing that may be
considered offensive or inappropriate.
      (3)   Any employee who does not meet the standards of this policy will be
required to take corrective action which may include leaving the premises.
Employees will not be compensated for any work time missed because of failure
to comply with this policy.
      (4)   Failure to present a professional appearance may also be cause for
disciplinary action.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.620 RETIREMENT BENEFITS.
   (A)   Police and Firemen's Disability and Pension Fund and Public Employees
Retirement System deductions from gross salary are mandatory for all employees.
These funds are credited to the employee's savings account with the respective
funds, and a statement of the balance in the account as of December 31 is
mailed to each member in early February. Upon enrollment in OPERS or PFDPF you
will receive a member handbook for your information.
   (B)   An employee shall be compensated for 25% of his/her unused accumulated
sick time as part of their final pay.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.630 PAY DAY AND DEDUCTIONS.
   (A)   Paychecks will be distributed every other Friday by your supervisor.
Each paycheck covers a working period of the two calendar weeks ending the
previous Saturday at midnight. Thus, there is an interval of five days between
the end of that working period ending Saturday and the issuance of your
paycheck on Friday.
   (B)   Department supervisors may pick up pay stubs from the Fiscal Officer
by 3:00 p.m. the day before pay day.
   (C)   When you believe there is an error in your paycheck or you have
questions, contact your supervisor, or in his/her absence, the Fiscal Officer,
immediately before cashing your check. An employee may not draw money in
advance of his/her regular pay.
   (D)   Department heads shall see to the maintenance and accuracy of daily
time and attendance records for their various divisions. Approval for payment
and input of time and attendance records into the payroll system shall be
completed by 9:00 a.m. on the Monday proceeding the pay date, unless otherwise
authorized.
   (E)   Each time you are paid, your payroll stub will show the amount earned,
all deductions, and net amount you receive. The village is required to withhold
deductions for income taxes and OPERS (Ohio Public Employment Retirement
System) or Police Pension. Any court ordered deductions, optional insurance
coverage and Credit Union deposits may be made through payroll deduction. The
amount withheld is determined by the number of exemptions you claim on the
Government Form W-4 for federal income tax and on Form IT-4 State of Ohio for
state income tax. It is the employee's responsibility to be aware of
withholdings and if there is a concern contact the Fiscal Officer.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.640 INSURANCE BENEFITS.
   (A)   Health insurance coverage is provided for full-time employees and
their dependents. Enrollment forms are available from the Fiscal Officer and
shall be completed upon date of hire for insurance to become effective upon the
first day of work.
   (B)   The village reserves the right to require employees to contribute a
share of the cost of the insurance premiums based on market conditions and the
village's financial resources. Each employee on the village’s health insurance
shall contribute 15% of each individual's monthly premium per pay.
   (C)   Health insurance and employee group life insurance coverage ends
immediately upon separation from village employment or upon the due date of the
next premium payment unless otherwise negotiated.
   (D)   Life insurance. The village provides a group life insurance policy
($40,000) for each full-time employee and for each part-time employee who
regularly works more than 20 hours per week. Premiums will be paid by the
village.
   (E)   Health reimbursement account. For each full-time employee that
participates in the village's health insurance there is money put in the
account for them. If an employee is on a single policy they get $1,500,
employee + 1 $1,750, family $2,000 per calendar year. When an employee joins
the village's health insurance the money will not be put in the HRA account
until one year after their hire date. One year after their hire date the money
will be prorated for that year and then the following they will get the full
amount. If an employee does not use any of the HRA money in a year's time, the
remaining balance will be rolled into the next year. An employee can only carry
a maximum balance in their HRA up to the said employee's deductible amount for
their health insurance.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.650 WORKER’S COMPENSATION.
   Every employee is covered by Worker’s Compensation for injuries received
while on duty. The coverage is in complete compliance with Ohio laws. The
employee shall follow the instructions provided by the village's third party
administrator for Worker's Compensation. Failure to promptly report an accident
could endanger your eligibility for coverage for such accident.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.660 UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION.
   Employees may be eligible to receive unemployment compensation according to
the regulations of the State of Ohio. If you terminate employment with the
village before securing another position, you may contact the Department of Job
and Family Services to determine whether you qualify for benefits.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.670 CLOTHING ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   All full-time Police Officers shall receive an annual clothing
allowance of $500.
   (B)   Part-time police officers, who work more than 400 hours during the
previous year shall, after one year of employment, be eligible for an annual
clothing allowance of $200 per year.
   (C)   The Police Chief handles the ordering for all police officers and
keeps track of each individual's amount spent on uniform supplies.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.680 TRAINING AND LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall be appointed as a regular police officer of the Village of
Bellville prior to receiving a satisfactory completion of the basic Peace
Officer Training Course from the Executive Director of the Ohio Peace Officer
Training Council.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.700 TRAINING AND EXAM FEES.
   There is a contract for each new hire at the Bellville Police Department.
The agreement is for training and physical expenses. Each new hire at the
Police Department is required to sign the agreement.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.710 GENERAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Promotions. Promotions are made from within the organization when it
is both reasonable and prudent. However, it is in the village's best interests
to hire or promote the most qualified person available. Work experience, formal
education and special training will be qualifying factors.
   (B)   Bulletin boards. The bulletin boards, located in various places in the
Village Hall, are for your general information. Check bulletin boards daily and
stay alert for notices of interest and of activities. Anything which would
generally be considered obscene or contrary to the policies of the village may
not be posted on any bulletin board.
   (C)   Personal mail. Employees shall not have personal mail delivered to the
Village Hall except upon approval by their supervisor. All mail addressed to
and received by the village will be considered business mail and may be opened
by other village employees.
   (D)   Timesheets/activity logs. Employees must maintain daily time sheets
and activity logs as provided by the village accurately documenting work start
times and ending times as well as the nature of the work activities during each
shift. These records must be reviewed and approved by the department supervisor
prior to submission to the Fiscal Officer for payroll calculation. Incomplete
time sheets or time sheets with major errors or omissions may result in a delay
in calculation of a paycheck for the employee in question. Please make sure
your time sheets are accurate and complete. Making alterations or entries on
another person's time sheets is strictly prohibited and may result in
disciplinary action up to and including dismissal. Falsification of your
personal time sheet is strictly prohibited and may result in disciplinary
action up to and including dismissal.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.720 REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES.
   (A)   An employee authorized by the Mayor and/or Administrator to travel on
official business may be reimbursed for the actual, reasonable, and necessary
expenses incurred for lodging.
      (1)   All employees must have prior approval by the appropriate
department head.
      (2)   The Fiscal Officer, Village Administrator and Chief of Police must
have prior approval by the Mayor.
   (B)   The maximum allowable reimbursement for meals is $10 for breakfast,
$15 for lunch, and $20 for supper, unless meal functions are included, in which
case the actual cost of the meal function will be reimbursed.
   (C)   A village supplied vehicle shall be the preferred method for village
employees to travel on official village business. When a village vehicle is not
available, employees will be reimbursed for use of their personal vehicle at
the maximum rate which Internal Revenue Service allows as a business travel
expense deduction for federal income tax purposes. Employees will also be
reimbursed for actual necessary and reasonable miscellaneous expenses such as
registration, tolls or parking.
   (D)   Receipts for all actual expense must be secured and presented to your
supervisor and/or Finance Director for approval of payment. Internal Revenue
Service regulations will determine whether any reimbursement constitutes
taxable or non-taxable income.
   (E)   No reimbursements shall be made for the purchase of any alcoholic
beverages. No alcoholic beverages may be consumed during the period that an
employee is on the clock.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.730 VILLAGE VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT.
   The use of village vehicles is intended for employees only. Under special or
emergency conditions, the Mayor or Village Administrator may temporarily waive
this regulation. Employees may not use MOTORIZED equipment belonging to the
village for personal use.
   (A)   Village owned tools and equipment that is NOT MOTORIZED may be
borrowed for personal use with prior approval by the Administrator or the Mayor
and approval by that department supervisor that would have normal control of
such equipment. A request form must be filled out and approved prior to said
use providing a complete list of any borrowed tools or equipment and the
specific dates, times and locations they will be used. The employee accepts
complete financial responsibility for any repairs or damage to such tools and
equipment while they are being used for personal purposes.
   (B)   The village's insurance for vehicle and equipment and general
liability does not extend coverage while village equipment is being used for
personal use.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.740 DRIVING PRIVILEGES.
   General regulations for employees.
   (A)   A commercial driver's license (CDL) may be required for the operation
of certain vehicles as required by state and federal regulations. No employee
may knowingly operate a motor vehicle in violation of these regulations.
   (B)   The Village Administrator shall be notified within 30 days of a
conviction for any moving traffic violation.
   (C)   Village employees with a commercial driver's license shall notify the
Motor Vehicle Licensing Agency within 30 days if you are convicted in any other
state of any traffic violation (except parking).
   (D)   All village employees who drive any village vehicles including police
auxiliary members shall advise the Village Administrator immediately if his/her
license is suspended, revoked, canceled or if you are disqualified from
driving.
   (E)   All full-time village employees in the Street and Parks Departments
and Water/Sewer Department shall have a commercial driver's license.
   (F)   Village employees required to have a commercial driver's license shall
take the test during regular business hours. If the test has to be taken after
regular business hours the employee shall be compensated.
   (G)   The village will reimburse the employee for the fees required to
obtain a commercial driver's license of the appropriate class and with only the
endorsements needed for village employment under R.C. Chapter 4506, minus the
fee that would be payable to obtain a driver's license under R.C. Chapter 4507.
However, the fee shall be reimbursed by the employee if he/she does not stay
with the village as an employee for one year following the application for the
license. The employee shall also reimburse the village if his/her license is
suspended, revoked, canceled or they become disqualified for any reason.
   (H)   Village employees required to take a skills test to obtain a
commercial driver's license shall be permitted to use the village vehicle that
pertains to the skill test he/she is taking.
   (I)   Any employee holding a commercial driver's license who is convicted of
any motor vehicle traffic control ordinance or statute violation in any type of
motor vehicle and in any state or jurisdiction shall notify the Administrator
of the conviction in writing within 30 days. The written notice shall contain
the driver's full name, license number, date of conviction, the specific
offense for which the person was convicted; any suspension, revocation or
cancellation imposed whether the violation occurred in a commercial motor
vehicle, the location of the offense and the employee's signature.
   (J)   Violations of any of the above rules are subject to disciplinary
action by the village and possible suspension of your CDL by the State of Ohio.
   (K)   The employee authorizes the village to run a driving record at a
minimum annually or at the employer’s discretion.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.750 SAFETY.
   (A)   It is the objective of the village to conduct all operations as safely
as possible and to comply with all requirements of the Public Employment Risk
Reduction Program and other applicable regulations. To accomplish this, the
responsibility, authority and accountability for safe work practice is assigned
to all supervisory personnel within their individual area of operations.
   (B)   The Mayor may appoint a Safety Coordinator who will work with the
Safety Service Committee of Village Council in developing safety policies,
training programs and record keeping procedures.
   (C)   The village will periodically offer safety education and training to
village employees and shall provide at least minimal safety equipment such as
hard hats, protective eye wear, hearing protection, gloves for specific hazard
protection, and other appropriate items. It is the responsibility of the
department supervisor to alert the Safety Coordinator or Administrator of any
safety equipment needs of his/her department and to instruct and direct village
employees within his/her department on the proper use of safety equipment and
hazard avoidance.
   (D)   Any employee of the village shall have the right to refuse to work in
certain circumstances because of health or safety violations. If an employee is
aware of such hazards in the workplace, he/she should notify his/her immediate
supervisor of the nature of this hazard, and if he/she takes no action to
correct this condition, the employee may file a written complaint with the
designated Safety Coordinator or the Administrator. The Safety Coordinator and/
or Administrator shall take appropriate action to address this hazardous
condition or work practice within ten days or a complaint may be filed with the
State of Ohio Department of Industrial Relations, Division of Safety and
Hygiene at 1-800-282-3045, Fax: 614-644-5707.
   (E)   If a village employee experiences a work-related accident resulting in
injury or work-related illness, he/she should notify their immediate supervisor
as soon as possible following the injury or illness so that an investigation
may be initiated by the Safety Coordinator or Administrator into causes of the
accident or illness. The investigation shall document the nature of the injury
or illness, all of the circumstances surrounding the incident and any
determination made as to probable causes or contributing factors.
   (F)   The Safety Coordinator shall meet periodically with the Administrator
and Chief of Police and the Safety Committee of Village Council to review
accident reports, discuss work policy or practices and explain safety concerns,
new laws, regulations and requirements to Council and the Administration.
Safety needs and required funding should also be addressed to the Safety
Service Committee of Council.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.760 AUTOMOBILE COLLISIONS.
   In the event you are involved in a collision while driving a village
vehicle:
   (A)   Call local law enforcement for a police report.
   (B)   Obtain names and addresses of any witnesses, any injured person,
driver of the other vehicle, and owner of the other vehicle.
   (C)   Do not commit yourself as to responsibility.
   (D)   Do not authorize any repairs to other vehicles.
   (E)   Give the information in division (B) of this section to the Mayor or
Village Administrator. Prepare a written report of the collision and indicate
the serial number, year and make of the vehicle. Promptness in reporting to the
insurance company is important.
   (F)   Prepare an accident report which should include (the Police Department
has the appropriate forms):
      (1)   Serial number, make and type of village-owned vehicle;
      (2)   Driver's name and home address;
      (3)   Location, time and date of collision;
      (4)   Name and address of person(s) involved or witnesses;
      (5)   Name of law enforcement officer who visited the accident scene;
      (6)   Name and address of owner and license number of other vehicle
involved;
      (7)   Nature and details of the collision.
      (8)   If you have access to a camera, photograph damage to each vehicle
involved.
   (G)   If anyone was injured in the collision, or the damage to either
automobile was in excess of $1,000, you are required to file a Motor Vehicle
Accident Report with the State of Ohio. The Police Department has the
appropriate forms.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.770 HANDLING CITIZENS' COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Complaints are important to the village administration, primarily
because they indicate that the desired level of service to the community is not
being performed. We, as employees of the village, are called upon to handle
many complaints, and the manner in which we handle them may have far reaching
results. By ignoring a complaint, an already bad situation may be aggravated;
handled promptly and efficiently, the village's public relations with the
citizens are improved for the betterment of all.
   (B)   When a citizen makes a complaint, it must be remembered; to them their
problem is a real and important one, regardless of what you may think of it. It
is our responsibility to treat the matter with this thought in mind.
   (C)   When handling complaints, be polite and firm but never become angry or
argue with the complainant, even if he/she is unreasonable, angry and insulting
toward you and the village. You should not take their comments personally -
always say "we" instead of "I." Some suggestions for handling an unreasonable
person are:
      (1)   Let the person talk himself/herself out. After a complainant tells
you what is on his/her mind, he/she may calm down and listen to what you have
to say.
      (2)   In your friendliest manner, tell the complainant that you are sorry
that he/she has not received the services they need; do not try to excuse or
justify the actions of the village or yourself.
      (3)   Offer to do what you can to solve the caller's problems. If he/she
wants to see the Mayor or Administrator, try to schedule this for them. This is
no reflection on your own ability, and may go far in calming the complainant
down.
      (4)   Assure the complainant of the good will of the village, and when
the conversation is ended, thank them for calling.
      (5)   Follow-up on all complaints defining the problem and what action
was taken. Notify the appropriate department supervisor of the nature of the
complaint and the relative urgency to resolve the complaint. It is important
that this stage be in written form in case reference is made to the problem at
a later date.
      (6)   Finally, notify the complainant as to what action has been, or will
be taken regarding their complaint.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.780 PURCHASING.
   See § 34.01, Central Purchasing Under Direction of the Village
Administrator.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.790 DISPOSITION OF SURPLUS VILLAGE PROPERTY.
   (A)   It is the policy of this village that all property of the village,
including equipment, supplies, tools and certain saleable refuse is jointly
owned by the residents of this village.
   (B)   Therefore, it follows that any property disposed of shall be done
according to the laws of the State of Ohio and this policy of the village.
   (C)   Any surplus tools, equipment, supplies and saleable refuse including
but not limited to wood, wood chips, paving bricks, etc. shall be disposed of
in accordance with the appropriate procedure.
   (D)   In general, if the property or items to be disposed of has a market
value in excess of $1,000 (per R.C. § 721.15) the sale of such items shall
first be authorized by an ordinance approved by Village Council. The sale shall
be to the highest bidder by public auction or by sealed bid. This sale will
take place after proper advertisement of at least two weeks in a newspaper of
general circulation. The village may also use the internet to post property
listed for sale.
   (E)   If the fair market value is less than $1,000, the property may be
disposed of by the Administrator by sale to anyone offering a fair and
reasonable price for such property. Every effort shall be made to secure the
best sale price for any property sold. Non-saleable items may be disposed of in
any manner deemed appropriate by the Administrator.
   (F)   All funds received from the sale shall be paid to the Fiscal Officer
with a proper receipt issued to the purchaser. With proof of purchase, proper
arrangements for removal of the goods sold will be made with the Administrator
or Mayor.
   (G)   Disposal or removal of surplus goods, equipment or refuse by any
officer or employee of the village, except in conformance with this procedure,
is a violation of village policy and may be construed to be a violation of Ohio
Ethics laws regarding an unlawful interest in a public contract or theft in
office. An exception to this policy is provided to the Police Department for
disposition of seized property or evidence which has been released from custody
which may be disposed of in accordance with specific directives provided under
the Ohio Revised Code.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.800 TELEPHONE, CELLULAR AND/OR RADIO COMMUNICATION ASSIGNMENT AND USE.
   (A)   Personal calls during working hours on any village telephone are
discouraged; however, in the event of an emergency, calls will be accepted and
the message delivered as quickly as possible.
   (B)   Cellular/radio devices and pagers shall be issued only to those
employees with a demonstrated need for these types of communication. Cellular/
radio devices and pagers shall be requested only by authorized personnel within
departments. Employees who use a village issued cellular/radio device agree to
the following rules of use:
      (1)   The use of a village cell phone for personal calls is strictly
prohibited. Department supervisors shall monitor the use of village
telecommunications equipment and report any violations to the Fiscal Officer or
Mayor.
      (2)   Employees must safeguard any cellular/radio and pager equipment in
their possession.
      (3)   The loss, or damage, of any cellular/radio device or pager
equipment shall be reported to the employee's supervisor immediately. If theft
is suspected, the Police should also be notified immediately and a police
report must be completed.
      (4)   Using their cell phone is prohibited while driving. Unless
utilizing a "hands-free" speakerphone option, employees shall stop their
vehicle as soon as safely possible before using a cellular/radio device.
      (5)   Employees shall limit all cell calls to what is reasonably
necessary to conduct village business.
      (6)   When an employee no longer has a demonstrated need for the
cellular/radio device or pager, or when the employee terminates employment with
any village department, that employee shall return any cellular/radio device
and pager equipment to that department.
      (7)   Cost that is associated with excessive and/or personal costs that
are not reimbursed by the employee may be considered theft and will result in
appropriate corrective action.
      (8)   If an employee uses their personal phone to make personal calls,
these calls shall be infrequent and of an emergency nature. Employees may bring
camera phones into the workplace, but they are banned from using the camera
feature except for official village use.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.810 VILLAGE CREDIT CARD POLICY.
   (A)   Credit cards are for use only when purchase orders are not accepted by
the vendor or to facilitate out of town travel on village business by employees
or officials.
   (B)   The Fiscal Officer is hereby designated as responsible for all credit
card issues, including issuing to employees, collecting receipts, monitoring
statements to compare to receipts, and reporting lost or stolen cards. The
Fiscal Officer and the Mayor shall monitor the use of village credit cards. The
Finance Committee chairman shall review all credit card activity. Only cards
with no annual fees will be acquired, and all accounts shall be paid within the
grace period so no interest is paid. All credit cards shall be issued in the
name of the village unless an individual must be designated.
   (C)   Credit cards may only be used for village purchases. Personal use,
even if reimbursed, is never permitted. Cash advances are never permitted.
   (D)   Lost or stolen credit cards must be reported immediately by the
employee to the Fiscal Officer, who shall report to the issuer as soon as
possible. Any cash back, discounts, coupons, bonuses or other benefits derived
based upon use of the credit card belongs to the village, not to the employee.
   (E)   Any violation of this policy is a basis for discipline up to and
including termination and restitution if necessary.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.820 DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE.
   (A)   The village believes that it is important to provide a safe workplace
for all of its employees. The village is taking steps to address the problem of
substance use that negatively affects every workplace, including ours. The
village is concerned with the health and well being of all employees. Behaviors
related to substance use can endanger all employees, not just substance users.
We cannot condone, and will not tolerate, behaviors on the part of employees
that relate to substance use and may be grounds for termination of employment,
such as:
      (1)   Use of illegal drugs or misuse of prescription drugs;
      (2)   Misuse of alcohol;
      (3)   Sale, purchase, transfer, trafficking, use or possession of any
illegal drugs;
      (4)   Arrival or return to work under the influence of any drug (legal or
illegal) or alcohol to the extent that job performance is affected.
   (B)   The village is committed to maintaining a workplace free of illegal
drugs as well as the use of
all intoxicating or mind altering substances.
      (1)   The unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or
use of an illegal or controlled substance is prohibited in the workplace and
during working hours.
      (2)   The use of an illegal or controlled substance or alcohol prior to
beginning work or during meal or break periods is prohibited.
      (3)   Use of any illegal substance or abuse of a legal drug is
prohibited. An employee is prohibited from being under the influence of alcohol
or an illegal substance at work.
      (4)   The possession or distribution of alcohol in the workplace is
prohibited.
      (5)   If a supervisor has documented reasonable suspicion to believe that
an employee may have violated division (B)(1) through (4) of this section, the
employer may require the employee to undergo tests for the use of drugs or
alcohol. The employee shall submit to the drug or alcohol testing immediately
upon the request of the employer.
      (6)   Failure to pass a drug or alcohol test may result in immediate
termination of employment.
      (7)   An employee who must use a prescribed medication during work hours
that may impair his or her safety or the safety of others or may otherwise
impair the employee's ability to perform his or her normal work duties shall so
notify the supervisor or department head. The department head may then, at his/
her discretion (1) place the employee on sick leave, (2) reassign the employee
to duties posing no such risk, or (3) have the employee's ability to work
without impairment evaluated by the employee's physician or a physician
selected and paid for by the village.
      (8)   Any village employee involved in a motor vehicle accident or
involved in an accident while operating any motorized village equipment shall
be subject to post accident testing for the possible influence of drugs or
alcohol. At the discretion of the Administrator or Mayor testing will be
conducted following the same protocol applied for random drug tests.
      (9)   An employee who has been convicted of a violation of a criminal
drug statute shall notify his or her department head no later than five days
after such conviction. The village may impose appropriate disciplinary action,
up to and including termination for the first offense.
      (10)   Storage of test results and right to review test results. All
records of drug/alcohol testing will be stored separately and apart from the
employee's general personnel documents. These records shall be maintained under
lock and key at all times. Access is limited to designated village officials.
The information contained in these files shall be utilized only to properly
administer the Policy and to provide to certifying agencies for review as
required by law. Designated village officials that shall have access to these
records are charged with the responsibility of maintaining the confidentiality
of these records. Any breach of confidentiality with regard to these records
may be an offense resulting in termination of employment. Any employees tested
under this Policy have the right to review and/or receive a copy of their own
test results. An employee may request from the Drug-Free Coordinator, in
writing, presenting a duly notarized Employee Request for Release of Drug Test
Results form, requesting that a copy of the test be provided. The village will
use its best efforts to promptly comply with this request and will issue to the
employee a copy of the results personally or by U.S. Certified Mail, return
receipt requested.
      (11)   Positive test results. Employees who are found to have a confirmed
positive drug or alcohol test will be immediately taken off safety-sensitive
duties and are subject to discipline up to and including termination.
      (12)   Termination notices. In those cases where substance testing
results in the termination of employment, all termination notices will list
"misconduct" as the reason. Termination shall be deemed "for cause."
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.830 HARASSMENT.
   (A)   The village is committed to maintaining a professional and collegial
work environment. Harassment interferes with this desired environment because
it is unwarranted and unwanted verbal or nonverbal conduct which threatens,
intimidates, or insults another person, where such conduct has the effect of
creating an offensive, intimidating, or hostile environment, or interferes with
or adversely affects a person's work performance.
   (B)   The village will not tolerate harassment. All employees are prohibited
from engaging in the harassment of any other employee or other person in the
course of their employment or at village-sponsored functions.
   (C)   Sexual harassment. Sexual harassment includes unwelcome and unwanted
sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal or physical
advances of a sexual nature. It is village policy to fully support enforcement
of state and federal anti-discrimination laws which provide that sexual
harassment is prohibited where:
      (1)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used
as the basis for employment decisions (hiring, evaluating, promoting) affecting
such individuals; or
      (2)   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of interfering with an
individual's work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile, or
offensive working environment.
   (D)   Examples of sexual harassment include, but are not limited to,
unwanted sexual advances; demands for sexual favors in exchange for favorable
treatment or continued employment; sexual jokes, flirtations, advances, or
propositions; verbal abuse of a sexual nature; graphic, verbal commentary about
an individual's body, sexual prowess or sexual deficiencies; touching;
pinching; assault; coerced sexual acts; suggestive insulting, obscene comments,
or gestures; and display in the workplace of sexually suggestive objects or
images.
   (E)   The village will investigate all allegations of harassment and
encourages reporting of all incidents as soon as possible, regardless of who
the offender may be.
   (F)   In any case in which the supervisor is witness to or confronted with a
situation of harassment, the supervisor shall immediately notify the offending
party that the harassment is not appropriate and will not be tolerated. A
supervisor shall report harassment cases to his/her department head, who in
turn, shall report the matter to the Mayor.
   (G)   How to report a complaint:
      (1)   The employee who believes that they are being harassed is
encouraged to confront the individual and let them know the behavior is
unwelcome and ask them to stop.
      (2)   If for any reason, a person being harassed does not wish to
approach the offender directly, or if such action proves unproductive, then the
employee should promptly report the conduct to his or her non-involved
supervisor, department head, or the Mayor. If the accused offender is the
Mayor, then the employee may contact the Law Director.
      (3)   All complaints will be handled in a timely and confidential manner.
Anyone involved should not discuss the subject outside the investigation in
order that the confidentiality of the employee who filed a complaint will be
protected and to encourage the reporting of any incidents of harassment, as
well as to protect the reputation of any employee wrongfully charged with
harassment. Confidentiality cannot be guaranteed, however, as applicable state
and federal sunshine and freedom of information laws makes it impossible to
maintain confidentiality.
      (4)   Protection against retaliation. No employee shall intimidate,
coerce, threaten, retaliate or discriminate against any other employee for
filing a complaint of harassment or for participating in the investigation of a
complaint.
   (H)   An employee may be guilty of abusing this process if the employee
maliciously makes a false claim of unlawful harassment. Abuse of this process
may subject an employee to disciplinary action up to and including termination.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.840 ELECTRONIC MAIL, INTERNET AND COMPUTER USE POLICY.
   (A)   Scope. This policy applies to the use of all village-owned or leased
computers, including desktop, laptop and other portable computers such as
iPads, and also including cellular telephones (i.e. BlackBerry, Palm, Apple and
other "smart phones" with text message capabilities as well as access to the
internet, and the receipt, sending and storage of electronic messages,
hereinafter referred to as "computer equipment and system." This computer
equipment and system is provided in order to allow village employees to perform
their duties more efficiently and may be used only in full compliance with this
policy.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this policy is to ensure the proper,
acceptable use of the village's computer equipment and system. The village
reserves the right to amend this policy at its discretion. Internet, e-mail or
online services users expressly waive any right of privacy in anything they
create, store, send or receive on the village's computer system. The village
may at any time or from time to time and without notice monitor internet, e-
mail or online services usage without prior notification. If there is evidence
of violation of this policy, the village may initiate disciplinary action,
including termination and/or legal action. This policy does not grant the
employee any contractual rights.
   (C)   Requirements. The computer equipment and system are business tools.
Users are obliged to use these tools in a responsible, effective and lawful
manner and in accordance with this policy. The following rules are hereby
created by the village and are to be strictly adhered to:
      (1)   The computer equipment and system are intended to be used primarily
for village business purposes. Uses which involve solicitation or are
associated with any outside for-profit business activities or activities which
could potentially embarrass the village are strictly forbidden.
      (2)   Employees shall not use the computer equipment and system for
operating an outside business for personal gain, sending chain letters,
forwarding non-village related e-mails, soliciting money for religious,
political or any other cause, or visiting social networking sites such as
Facebook or Twitter. An exception is granted to Police Officers during the
conduct of a specific investigation.
      (3)   Employees shall not use the computer equipment and system to
transmit or download material that is offensive, obscene, pornographic,
threatening, or racially or sexually harassing.
      (4)   Employees shall not use the computer equipment and system to make
unauthorized entry or illegal entry into any part of the village's computer
which the employee is not authorized to access.
      (5)   Employees shall not use the computer equipment and system to
disseminate or print copyrighted materials (including articles and software) in
violation of copyright laws.
      (6)   Employees shall not use the computer equipment and system to gain
access to confidential information except as part of the employee's job
responsibility. Employees shall not use these services to provide access to
public information without following the existing rules and procedures of the
village and/or the Ohio Revised Code for dissemination.
      (7)   Employees shall not use an internet, e-mail or online services
account or signature line other than their own, nor shall any employee disguise
or attempt to disguise the source of an e-mail sent.
      (8)   Employees shall take all reasonable precautions to prevent the
inadvertent dissemination of anyone else's information via the internet, e-mail
or online services.
      (9)   The computer equipment and system are subject to limitations as
imposed by this policy to prevent excessive or improper use. Although the
computer equipment and system are meant for business use, the village allows
occasional personal usage if it does not interfere with work. However, all
messages distributed or received via the village's e-mail system are the
village's property.
      (10)   Employees are also reminded that access to and use of the
internet, including communication by e-mail, is not confidential.
      (11)   Employees shall not delete an e-mail message which constitutes a
public record that has not met or exceeded the appropriate retention period as
set forth by the Village Records Commission unless printed and retained. E-
mails that are strictly of a personal or incidental nature and having no
administrative necessity, and not defined as a public record may be
periodically deleted.
      (12)   Employees are reminded that deleted e-mails can still be recovered
by the village.
      (13)   Employees shall not engage in unauthorized interference or
tampering with any hardware device which is used within the system or in the
connection to an outside network, shall not delete any browsing history or
cookies, and shall not add any hardware or software, including screen savers,
without approval.
   (D)   Records management and e-mail retention. E-mail and/or online services
are a means of transmission of messages or information and are considered a
record if they meet the criteria of Ohio's public records laws, R.C. § 149.01.1
(G). The content of e-mail or online services messages will vary considerably,
and therefore this content must be evaluated to determine the length of time
the e-mail must be retained. Scheduling and retaining e-mail or online services
messages shall be established by the Village Records Commission.
   (E)   Encryption. Users may not encrypt any e-mails, except in PDF where
appropriate, without obtaining written permission from the village.
   (F)   Avoidance of confidential information. Because e-mail and/or online
services transmissions are public records, they should not be used to discuss
questions of liability or any matters that could or do involve potential,
threatened or pending claims or lawsuits against the village. Certain
confidential communications between the Police Department and the Law Director
or another attorney may be exempt from Public Records Law under attorney/client
privilege or under R.C. § 149.43.
   (G)   Viruses. Computer viruses are more and more prevalent in today's
world. They can cause considerable damage to a computer or entire network. An
infected computer may not be readily identified, even though damage may be
occurring. The utmost care must be taken in adhering to strict anti-virus
precautions. These include:
      (1)   Do not use or exchange disks or diskettes with other outside
computers, including an employee's home computer.
      (2)   Do not download programs from the internet or electronic bulletin
boards without express approval.
      (3)   Do not activate programs that have been attached to an e-mail
message unless necessary to carry out village business and received from a
reliable source.
      (4)   Do not open e-mails from unknown or suspicious sources. Seek
technical assistance whenever necessary to avoid infection of the village
system with a virus.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.850 DISCIPLINE AND GRIEVANCES.
   (A)   Disciplinary actions for all Police Officers will be handled in
accordance with the Ohio Revised Code.
   (B)   Non-officer employees of the Police Department shall be handled in the
same manner as other employees of the village under procedures provided in the
Employee Handbook of the village.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.851 APPEALS FROM DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS.
   Appeals from disciplinary actions may be taken in accordance with, and to
the extent provided by the Ohio Revised Code. This policy does NOT grant or
authorize any right of appeal not otherwise granted by the Ohio Revised Code.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.860 MISCELLANEOUS POLICIES.
   (A)   Employee work areas, lockers, cabinets and vehicles. In order to
maintain security and to operate efficiently, village management reserves the
right to have complete access to all village work areas, property, offices, and
equipment. Accordingly, employees who store personal items in village-owned
lockers, desks, cabinets, storage areas, or vehicles do so at their own risk
and should have no expectation of privacy for items maintained in these areas.
   (B)   Personnel files.
      (1)   The village shall maintain official personnel files for all
employees.
      (2)   Under current Ohio public records law, the village cannot assure
absolute confidentiality of these records.
      (3)   Employees must advise their department head, Administrator, Chief
of Police, or Fiscal Officer, as appropriate, of any change in name, address,
marital status, telephone number, and any other pertinent personnel-related
information.
      (4)   An employee shall have a right to inspection of their own personnel
files.
   (C)   Employment-related reference checks. All requests for a reference for
a current or former employee, whether in writing or by telephone, shall be
referred to the Mayor or Chief of Police. No other employee shall respond to
any request for a reference or other information regarding the work performance
of a current or former employee.
   (D)   Tobacco policy.
      (1)   Employees shall not smoke or use smokeless tobacco products while
on duty unless they are on break and remain in a designated smoking area.
      (2)   Employees are not permitted to smoke or use smokeless tobacco
products while in any village owned vehicle or facility.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.870 RESIGNATION AND DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Should an employee wish to resign and the village requests sufficient
notice to fill the vacated position. For clerical and non-professional
positions, this will be two weeks notice which does not include scheduled time
off; for professional and supervisory personnel this will be a minimum of one
month. Final paychecks will be issued on the next scheduled pay day following
the last day worked.
   (B)   Employees who are discharged will be notified of such discharge in
person by their immediate supervisor and/or the Mayor. The employee shall be
asked to turn in all village property and to leave their workplace immediately
after termination. No advance notice of discharge, or salary in lieu thereof,
will be given the employee whose conduct jeopardizes the work of the village.
Should it become necessary to discharge an employee, his/her check will be
ready on the next payroll processing date after discharge, and will only be
issued upon surrender of all village owned property, uniforms or equipment.
(Ord. 49-2017, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 38.880 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of these rules and
regulations is found to be illegal, such findings shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portions of these rules and regulations. In the event of a
conflict between any sections of these regulations, or with another village
ordinance, the Village Solicitor will determine which regulations take
precedence.
(Ord. 42-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
CHAPTER 39: INCOME TAX REGULATIONS
Section
   
39.01   Authority to levy tax; purpose of tax
   
39.02   Definitions
   
39.03   Imposition of tax
   
39.04   Collection at source
   
39.05   Annual return; filing
   
39.06   Credits for tax paid to other municipalities
   
39.07   Estimated taxes
   
39.08   Rounding of amounts
   
39.09   Requests for refunds
   
39.10   Second municipality imposing tax after time period allowed for refund
   
39.11   Amended returns
   
39.12   Limitations
   
39.13   Audits
   
39.14   Service of assessment
   
39.15   Administration of claims
   
39.16   Tax information confidential
   
39.17   Fraud
   
39.18   Interest and penalties
   
39.19   Authority of Tax Administrator; verification of information
   
39.20   Request for opinion of the Tax Administrator
   
39.21   Board of Tax review
   
39.22   Authority to create rules and regulations
   
39.23   Rentals and leased property
   
39.24   Savings clause
   
39.25   Collection of tax after termination of chapter
   
39.26   Rules and regulations for income tax, under authority of Ordinance 32-
72, adopted
   
39.27   Opt-in for filing through the Ohio Business Gateway for businesses
 
   
39.99   Violations; penalties
Editor’s Note: For income tax regulations effective until December 31, 2015,
see §§
35.125 through
35.136.
§ 39.01 AUTHORITY TO LEVY TAX; PURPOSE OF TAX.
   (A)   To provide funds for the purposes of General Municipal Operations Fund
1000, 75%, Street Maintenance and Repair Fund 2011, 14%, Income Tax Fund 2071,
11%, enlargement of municipal services and facilities, the village hereby
levies an annual municipal income tax on income, qualifying wages, commissions
and other compensation, and on net profits as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   The annual tax is levied at a rate of 1%. The tax is levied at a
uniform rate on all persons residing in or earning or receiving income in the
village. The tax is levied on income, qualifying wages, commissions and other
compensation, and on net profits as hereinafter provided in this chapter, and
other sections as they may apply.
   (C)   The tax on income and the withholding tax established by the
ordinances and Municipal Code of Bellville, Ohio are authorized by Article
XVIII, Section 3 of the Ohio Constitution. The tax is levied in accordance
with, and is intended to be consistent with, the provisions and limitations of
R.C. Chapter 718.
(Ord. 33-2015, passed 11-3-2015)
§ 39.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Any term used in this chapter that is not otherwise defined in this
chapter has the same meaning as when used in a comparable context in laws of
the United States relating to federal income taxation or in R.C. Title LVII,
unless a different meaning is clearly required. If a term used in this chapter
that is not otherwise defined in this chapter is used in a comparable context
in both the laws of the United States relating to federal income tax and in
R.C. Title LVII and the use is not consistent, then the use of the term in the
laws of the United States relating to federal income tax shall control over the
use of the term in R.C. Title LVII.
   (B)   The singular shall include the plural, and the masculine shall include
the feminine and the gender-neutral.
   (C)   As used in this chapter:
      (1)   ADJUSTED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME. For a person required to file as a
C corporation, or for a person that has elected to be taxed as a C corporation
under division (C)(24)(d) of this section, means a C corporation's federal
taxable income before net operating losses and special deductions as determined
under the Internal Revenue Code, adjusted as follows:
         (a)   Deduct intangible income to the extent included in federal
taxable income. The deduction shall be allowed regardless of whether the
intangible income relates to assets used in a trade or business or assets held
for the production of income.
         (b)   Add an amount equal to 5% of intangible income deducted under
division (C)(1)(a) of this section, but excluding that portion of intangible
income directly related to the sale, exchange, or other disposition of property
described in section 1221 of the Internal Revenue Code;
         (c)   Add any losses allowed as a deduction in the computation of
federal taxable income if the losses directly relate to the sale, exchange, or
other disposition of an asset described in section 1221 or 1231 of the Internal
Revenue Code;
         (d)   1.   Except as provided in division (C)(l)(d)2. of this section,
deduct income and gain included in federal taxable income to the extent the
income and gain directly relate to the sale, exchange, or other disposition of
an asset described in section 1221 or 1231 of the Internal Revenue Code;
            2.   Division (C) (l)(d)1. of this section does not apply to the
extent the income or gain is income or gain described in section 1245 or 1250
of the Internal Revenue Code.
         (e)   Add taxes on or measured by net income allowed as a deduction in
the computation of federal taxable income;
         (f)   In the case of a real estate investment trust or regulated
investment company, add all amounts with respect to dividends to, distributions
to, or amounts set aside for or credited to the benefit of investors and
allowed as a deduction in the computation of federal taxable income;
         (g)   Deduct, to the extent not otherwise deducted or excluded in
computing federal taxable income, any income derived from a transfer agreement
or from the enterprise transferred under that agreement under R.C. § 4313.02;
         (h)   1.   Except as limited by divisions (C) (1) (h)2., 3., and 4. of
this section, deduct any net operating loss incurred by the person in a taxable
year beginning on or after January 1, 2017. The amount of such net operating
loss shall be deducted from net profit that is reduced by exempt income to the
extent necessary to reduce municipal taxable income to zero, with any remaining
unused portion of the net operating loss carried forward to not more than five
consecutive taxable years following the taxable year in which the loss was
incurred, but in no case for more years than necessary for the deduction to be
fully utilized.
            2.   No person shall use the deduction allowed by division (C)(1)
(h) of this section to offset qualifying wages.
            3.   A.   For taxable years beginning in 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, or
2022, a person may not deduct, for purposes of an income tax levied by a
municipal corporation that levies an income tax before January 1, 2016, more
than 50% of the amount of the deduction otherwise allowed by division (C)(l)
(h)1. of this section.
               B.   For taxable years beginning in 2023 or thereafter, a person
may deduct, for purposes of an income tax levied by a municipal corporation
that levies an income tax before January 1, 2016, the full amount allowed by
division (C)(l)(h)1. of this section.
            4.   Any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward deduction that is
available must be utilized before a taxpayer may deduct any amount pursuant to
division (C)(1)(h) of this section.
            5.   Nothing in division (C)(l)(h)3.A. of this section precludes a
person from carrying forward, use with respect to any return filed for a
taxable year beginning after 2018, any amount of net operating loss that was
not fully utilized by operation of division (C)(l)(h)3.A. of this section. To
the extent that an amount of net operating loss that was not fully utilized in
one or more taxable years by operation of division (C)(l)(h)3.A. of this
section is carried forward for use with respect to a return filed for a taxable
year beginning in 2019, 2020, 2021, or 2022, the limitation described in
division (C)(l)(h)3.A. of this section shall apply to the amount carried
forward.
         (i)   Deduct any net profit of a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer's federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that net profit in
the group's federal taxable income in accordance with §
39.05(V)(3)(b).
         (j)   Add any loss incurred by a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer's federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that loss in the
group's federal taxable income in accordance with §
39.05(V)(3)(b).
   If the taxpayer is not a C corporation, is not a disregarded entity that has
made an election described in division (C)(48)(b) of this section, is not a
publicly traded partnership that has made the election described in division
(C)(24)(d) of this section, and is not an individual, the taxpayer shall
compute adjusted federal taxable income under this section as if the taxpayer
were a C corporation, except guaranteed payments and other similar amounts paid
or accrued to a partner, former partner, shareholder, former shareholder,
member, or former member shall not be allowed as a deductible expense unless
such payments are in consideration for the use of capital and treated as
payment of interest under section 469 of the Internal Revenue Code or United
States Treasury regulations. Amounts paid or accrued to a qualified self-
employed retirement plan with respect to a partner, former partner,
shareholder, former shareholder, member, or former member of the taxpayer,
amounts paid or accrued to or for health insurance for a partner, former
partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member, or former member, and amounts
paid or accrued to or for life insurance for a partner, former partner,
shareholder, former shareholder, member, or former member shall not be allowed
as a deduction.
Nothing in division (C)(1) of this section shall be construed as allowing the
taxpayer to add or deduct any amount more than once or shall be construed as
allowing any taxpayer to deduct any amount paid to or accrued for purposes of
federal self-employment tax.
      (2)   (a)   ASSESSMENT. A written finding by the Tax Administrator that a
person has underpaid municipal income tax, or owes penalty and interest, or any
combination of tax, penalty, or interest, to the municipal corporation that
commences the person's time limitation for making an appeal to the Board of Tax
Review pursuant to §
39.21, and has "ASSESSMENT" written in all capital letters at the top of such
finding.
         (b)   ASSESSMENT. Does not include a notice denying a request for
refund issued under §
39.09(C)(3), a billing statement notifying a taxpayer of current or past-due
balances owed to the municipal corporation, a Tax Administrator's request for
additional information, a notification to the  taxpayer of mathematical errors,
or a Tax Administrator's other written correspondence to a person or taxpayer
that does not meet the criteria prescribed by division (C)(2)(a) of this
section.
      (3)   AUDIT. The examination of a person or the inspection of the books,
records, memoranda, or accounts of a person, ordered to appear before the Tax
Administrator, for the purpose of determining liability for a municipal income
tax.
      (4)   BOARD OF TAX REVIEW or BOARD OF REVIEW or BOARD OF TAX APPEALS, or
other named local board constituted to hear appeals of municipal income tax
matters, means the entity created under §
39.21.
      (5)   CALENDAR QUARTER. The three-month period ending on the last day of
March, June, September, or December.
      (6)   CASINO OPERATOR and CASINO FACILITY. Have the same meanings as in
R.C. § 3772.01.
      (7)   CERTIFIED MAIL, EXPRESS MAIL, UNITED STATES MAIL, POSTAL SERVICE,
and similar terms include any delivery service authorized pursuant to R.C. §
5703.056.
      (8)   DISREGARDED ENTITY. A single member limited liability company, a
qualifying subchapter S subsidiary, or another entity if the company,
subsidiary, or entity is a disregarded entity for federal income tax purposes.
      (9)   DOMICILE. The true, fixed, and permanent home of a taxpayer and to
which, whenever absent, the taxpayer intends to return. A taxpayer may have
more than one residence but not more than one domicile.
      (10)   EMPLOYEE. An individual who is an employee for federal income tax
purposes.
      (11)   EMPLOYER. A person that is an employer for federal income tax
purposes.
      (12)   EXEMPT INCOME. Means all of the following:
         (a)   The military pay or allowances of members of the Armed Forces of
the United States or members of their reserve components, including the
national guard of any state.
         (b)   Intangible income. However, a municipal corporation that taxed
any type of intangible income on March 29, 1988, pursuant to Section 3 of S.B.
238 of the 116th General Assembly, may continue to tax that type of income if a
majority of the electors of the municipal corporation voting on the question of
whether to permit the taxation of that type of intangible income after 1988
voted in favor thereof at an election held on November 8, 1988.
         (c)   Social Security benefits, railroad retirement benefits,
unemployment compensation, pensions, retirement benefit payments, payments from
annuities, and similar payments made to an employee or to the beneficiary of an
employee under a retirement program or plan, disability payments received from
private industry or local, state, or federal governments or from charitable,
religious or educational organizations, and the proceeds of sickness, accident,
or liability insurance policies. As used in division (C)(12)(c) of this
section, UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION does not include supplemental unemployment
compensation described in section 3402(o)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code.
         (d)   The income of religious, fraternal, charitable, scientific,
literary, or educational institutions to the extent such income is derived from
tax-exempt real estate, tax-exempt tangible or intangible property, or tax-
exempt activities.
         (e)   Compensation paid under R.C. § 3501.28 or 3501.36 to a person
serving as a precinct election official to the extent that such compensation
does not exceed $1,000 for the taxable year. Such compensation in excess of
$1,000 for the taxable year may be subject to taxation by a municipal
corporation. A municipal corporation shall not require the payer of such
compensation to withhold any tax from that compensation.
         (f)   Dues, contributions, and similar payments received by
charitable, religious, educational, or literary organizations or labor unions,
lodges, and similar organizations.
         (g)   Alimony and child support received.
         (h)   Compensation for personal injuries or for damages to property
from insurance proceeds or otherwise, excluding compensation paid for lost
salaries or wages or compensation from punitive damages.
         (i)   Income of a public utility when that public utility is subject
to the tax levied under R.C. § 5727.24 or 5727.30. Division (C)(12)(i) of this
section does not apply for purposes of R.C. Chapter 5745.
         (j)   Gains from involuntary conversions, interest on federal
obligations, items of income subject to a tax levied by the state and that a
municipal corporation is specifically prohibited by law from taxing, and income
of a decedent's estate during the period of administration except such income
from the operation of a trade or business.
         (k)   Compensation or allowances excluded from federal gross income
under section 107 of the Internal Revenue Code.
         (l)   Employee compensation that is not qualifying wages as defined in
division (C)(35) of this section.
         (m)   Compensation paid to a person employed within the boundaries of
a United States Air Force base under the jurisdiction of the United States Air
Force that is used for the housing of members of the United States Air Force
and is a center for Air Force operations, unless the person is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile. If the compensation is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile, tax on such income shall be payable
only to the municipal corporation of residence or domicile.
         (n)   An S corporation shareholder's share of net profits of the S
corporation, other than any part of the share of net profits that represents
wages as defined in section 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue Code or net
earnings from self-employment as defined in section 1402(a) of the Internal
Revenue Code.
         (o)   To the extent authorized under a resolution or ordinance adopted
by the village before January 1, 2016, all of the income of individuals under
16 years of age.
         (p)   1.   Except as provided in divisions (C)(12)(p)2., 3., and 4. of
this section, qualifying wages described in §
39.04(C)(2) or (C)(5) to the extent the qualifying wages are not subject to
withholding for the village under either of those divisions.
            2.   The exemption provided in division (C)(12)(p)1. of this
section does not apply with respect to the municipal corporation in which the
employee resided at the time the employee earned the qualifying wages.
            3.   The exemption provided in division (C)(12)(p)1. of this
section does not apply to qualifying wages that an employer elects to withhold
under §
39.04(C)(4)(b).
            4.   The exemption provided in division (C)(12)(p)1. of this
section does not apply to qualifying wages if both of the following conditions
apply:
               A.   For qualifying wages described in §
39.04(C)(2), the employee's employer withholds and remits tax on the qualifying
wages to the municipal corporation in which the employee's principal place of
work is situated, or, for qualifying wages described in §
39.04(C)(5), the employee's employer withholds and remits tax on the qualifying
wages to the municipal corporation in which the employer's fixed location is
located;
               B.   The employee receives a refund of the tax described in
division (C)(12)(p)4.A. of this section on the basis of the employee not
performing services in that municipal corporation.
         (q)   1.   Except as provided in division (C)(12)(q)2. or 3. of this
section, compensation that is not qualifying wages paid to a nonresident
individual for personal services performed in the village on not more than 20
days in a taxable year.
            2.   The exemption provided in division (C)(12)(q)2. of this
section does not apply under either of the following circumstances:
               A.   The individual's base of operation is located in the
municipal corporation.
               B.   The individual is a professional athlete, professional
entertainer, or public figure, and the compensation is paid for the performance
of services in the individual's capacity as a professional athlete,
professional entertainer, or public figure. For purposes of division (C)(12)
(q)2.B. of this section, PROFESSIONAL ATHLETE, PROFESSIONAL ENTERTAINER, and
PUBLIC FIGURE have the same meanings as in §
39.04 (C).
            3.   Compensation to which division (C)(12)(q) of this section
applies shall be treated as earned or received at the individual's base of
operation. If the individual does not have a base of operation, the
compensation shall be treated as earned or received where the individual is
domiciled.
            4.   For purposes of division (C)(12)(q) of this section, BASE OF
OPERATION means the location where an individual owns or rents an office,
storefront, or similar facility to which the individual regularly reports and
at which the individual regularly performs personal services for compensation.
         (r)   Compensation paid to a person for personal services performed
for a political subdivision on property owned by the political subdivision,
regardless of whether the compensation is received by an employee of the
subdivision or another person performing services for the subdivision under a
contract with the subdivision, if the property on which services are performed
is annexed to a municipal corporation pursuant to R.C. § 709.023 on or after
March 27, 2013, unless the person is subject to such taxation because of
residence. If the compensation is subject to taxation because of residence,
municipal income tax shall be payable only to the municipal corporation of
residence.
         (s)   Income the taxation of which is prohibited by the constitution
or laws of the United States.
Any item of income that is exempt income of a pass-through entity under
division (C) of this section is exempt income of each owner of the pass-through
entity to the extent of that owner's distributive or proportionate share of
that item of the entity's income.
      (13)   FORM 2106. Internal Revenue Service form 2106 filed by a taxpayer
pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (14)   GENERIC FORM. An electronic or paper form that is not prescribed
by a particular municipal corporation and that is designed for reporting taxes
withheld by an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer, estimated
municipal income taxes, or annual municipal income tax liability or for filing
a refund claim.
      (15)   GROSS RECEIPTS. The total revenue derived from sales, work done,
or service rendered.
      (16)   INCOME.
         (a)   1.   For residents, all income, salaries, qualifying wages,
commissions, and other compensation from whatever source earned or received by
the resident, including the resident's distributive share of the net profit of
pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by the resident and any net
profit of the resident, except as provided in division (C)(24)(d) of this
section.
            2.   For the purposes of division (C)(16)(a)1. of this section:
               A.   Any net operating loss of the resident incurred in the
taxable year and the resident's distributive share of any net operating loss
generated in the same taxable year and attributable to the resident's ownership
interest in a pass-through entity shall be allowed as a deduction, for that
taxable year and the following five taxable years, against any other net profit
of the resident or the resident's distributive share of any net profit
attributable to the resident's ownership interest in a pass-through entity
until fully utilized, subject to division (C)(16)(a)4. of this section;
               B.   The resident's distributive share of the net profit of each
pass-through entity owned directly or indirectly by the resident shall be
calculated without regard to any net operating loss that is carried forward by
that entity from a prior taxable year and applied to reduce the entity's net
profit for the current taxable year.
            3.   Division (C)(16)(a)2. of this section does not apply with
respect to any net profit or net operating loss attributable to an ownership
interest in an S corporation unless shareholders' shares of net profits from S
corporations are subject to tax in the municipal corporation as provided in
division (C)(12)(n) or (C)(16)(e) of this section.
            4.   Any amount of a net operating loss used to reduce a taxpayer's
net profit for a taxable year shall reduce the amount of net operating loss
that may be carried forward to any subsequent year for use by that taxpayer. In
no event shall the cumulative deductions for all taxable years with respect to
a taxpayer's net operating loss exceed the original amount of that net
operating loss available to that taxpayer.
         (b)   In the case of nonresidents, all income, salaries, qualifying
wages, commissions, and other compensation from whatever source earned or
received by the nonresident for work done, services performed or rendered, or
activities conducted in the municipal corporation, including any net profit of
the nonresident, but excluding the nonresident's distributive share of the net
profit or loss of only pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by
the nonresident.
         (c)   For taxpayers that are not individuals, net profit of the
taxpayer;
         (d)   Lottery, sweepstakes, gambling and sports winnings, winnings
from games of chance, and prizes and awards as defined in IRS W-2G and 5754. If
the taxpayer is a professional gambler for federal income tax purposes, the
taxpayer may deduct related wagering losses and expenses to the extent
authorized under the Internal Revenue Code and claimed against such winnings
      (17)   INTANGIBLE INCOME. Income of any of the following types: income
yield, interest, capital gains, dividends, or other income arising from the
ownership, sale, exchange, or other disposition of intangible property
including, but not limited to, investments, deposits, money, or credits as
those terms are defined in R.C. Chapter 5701, and patents, copyrights,
trademarks, tradenames, investments in real estate investment trusts,
investments in regulated investment companies, and appreciation on deferred
compensation. INTANGIBLE INCOME does not include prizes, awards, or other
income associated with any lottery winnings, gambling winnings, or other
similar games of chance.
      (18)   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5747.01.
      (19)   LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY. A limited liability company formed
under R.C. Chapter 1705 or under the laws of another state.
      (20)   MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. Includes a joint economic development
district or joint economic development zone that levies an income tax under
R.C. § 715.691, 715.70, 715.71, or 715.74.
      (21)   (a)   MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME.
            1.   For a person other than an individual, income reduced by
exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income and then, as
applicable, apportioned or sitused to village under §
39.03, and further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward
available to the person for the village.
            2.   A.   For an individual who is a resident of the village,
income reduced by exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income,
then reduced as provided in division (C)(21)(b) of this section, and further
reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward available to the
individual for the municipal corporation.
               B.   For an individual who is a nonresident of the village
income reduced by exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income and
then, as applicable, apportioned or sitused to the municipal corporation under
§
39.03, then reduced as provided in division (C)(21)(b) of this section, and
further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward available to
the individual for the village.
         (b)   In computing the municipal taxable income of a taxpayer who is
an individual, the taxpayer may subtract, as provided in division (C)(21)
(a)2.A. or (C)(21)(b) of this section, the amount of the individual's employee
business expenses reported on the individual's form 2106 that the individual
deducted for federal income tax purposes for the taxable year, subject to the
limitation imposed by section 67 of the Internal Revenue Code. For the
municipal corporation in which the taxpayer is a resident, the taxpayer may
deduct all such expenses allowed for federal income tax purposes, but to the
extent the expenses do not relate to exempt income. For a municipal corporation
in which the taxpayer is not a resident, the taxpayer may deduct such expenses
only to the extent the expenses are related to the taxpayer's performance of
personal services in that nonresident municipal corporation and are not related
to exempt income.
      (22)   MUNICIPALITY. The same as the Village of Bellville. If the terms
are capitalized in the chapter they are referring to the Village of Bellville.
If not capitalized they refer to a municipal corporation other than the Village
of Bellville.
      (23)   NET OPERATING LOSS. A loss incurred by a person in the operation
of a trade or business. NET OPERATING LOSS does not include unutilized losses
resulting from basis limitations, at-risk limitations, or passive activity loss
limitations.
      (24)   (a)   NET PROFIT for a person other than an individual means
adjusted federal taxable income.
         (b)   NET PROFIT for a person who is an individual means the
individual's net profit required to be reported on schedule C, schedule E, or
schedule F reduced by any net operating loss carried forward. For the purposes
of division (C)(24)(b) of this section, the net operating loss carried forward
shall be calculated and deducted in the same manner as provided in division (C)
(1)(h) of this section.
         (c)   For the purposes of this chapter, and notwithstanding division
(C)(24)(a) of this section, net profit of a disregarded entity shall not be
taxable as against that disregarded entity, but shall instead be included in
the net profit of the owner of the disregarded entity.
         (d)   A publicly traded partnership that is treated as a partnership
for federal income tax purposes, and that is subject to tax on its net profits
by the village, may elect to be treated as a C corporation for the village. The
election shall be made on the annual return for the village. The village will
treat the publicly traded partnership as a C corporation if the election is so
made.
      (25)   NONRESIDENT. An individual that is not a resident.
      (26)   OHIO BUSINESS GATEWAY. The online computer network system, created
under R.C. § 125.30, that allows persons to electronically file business reply
forms with state agencies and includes any successor electronic filing and
payment system.
      (27)   OTHER PAYER. Any person, other than an individual's employer or
the employer's agent that pays an individual any amount included in the federal
gross income of the individual. OTHER PAYER includes casino operators and video
lottery terminal sales agents.
      (28)   PASS-THROUGH ENTITY. A partnership not treated as an association
taxable as a C corporation for federal income tax purposes, a limited liability
company not treated as an association taxable as a C corporation for federal
income tax purposes, an S corporation, or any other class of entity from which
the income or profits of the entity are given pass-through treatment for
federal income tax purposes. PASS-THROUGH ENTITY does not include a trust,
estate, grantor of a grantor trust, or disregarded entity.
      (29)   PENSION. Any amount paid to an employee or former employee that is
reported to the recipient on an IRS form 1099-R, or successor form. PENSION
does not include deferred compensation, or amounts attributable to nonqualified
deferred compensation plans, reported as FICA/Medicare wages on an IRS form W-
2, Wage and Tax Statement, or successor form.
      (30)   PERSON. Includes individuals, firms, companies, joint stock
companies, business trusts, estates, trusts, partnerships, limited liability
partnerships, limited liability companies, associations, C corporations, S
corporations, governmental entities, and any other entity.
      (31)   POSTAL SERVICE. The United States postal service.
      (32)   POSTMARK DATE, DATE OF POSTMARK, and similar terms include the
date recorded and marked in the manner described in division (B)(3) of R.C. §
5703.056.
      (33)   (a)   PRE-2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD. Any net operating
loss incurred in a taxable year beginning before January 1, 2017, to the extent
such loss was permitted, by a resolution or ordinance of the municipal
corporation that was adopted by the municipal corporation before January 1,
2016, to be carried forward and utilized to offset income or net profit
generated in such municipal corporation in future taxable years.
         (b)   For the purpose of calculating municipal taxable income, any
pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward may be carried forward to any taxable
year, including taxable years beginning in 2017 or thereafter, for the number
of taxable years provided in the resolution or ordinance or until fully
utilized, whichever is earlier.
      (34)   PUBLICLY TRADED PARTNERSHIP. Any partnership, an interest in which
is regularly traded on an established securities market. A PUBLICLY TRADED
PARTNERSHIP may have any number of partners.
      (35)   QUALIFYING WAGES. Wages, as defined in section 3121(a) of the
Internal Revenue Code, without regard to any wage limitations, adjusted as
follows:
         (a)   Deduct the following amounts:
            1.   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes
compensation attributable to a plan or program described in section 125 of the
Internal Revenue Code.
            2.   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes payment
on account of a disability related to sickness or an accident paid by a party
unrelated to the employer, agent of an employer, or other payer.
            3.   Any amount included in wages if the amount arises from the
sale, exchange, or other disposition of a stock option, the exercise of a stock
option, or the sale, exchange, or other disposition of stock purchased under a
stock option.
            4.   Any amount included in wages that is exempt income.
         (b)   Add the following amounts:
            1.   Any amount not included in wages solely because the employee
was employed by the employer before April 1, 1986.
            2.   Any amount not included in wages if the amount is an amount
described in section 401(k), 403(b), or 457 of the Internal Revenue Code.
Division (C)(35)(b)2. of this section applies only to employee contributions
and employee deferrals.
            3.   Any amount that is supplemental unemployment compensation
benefits described in section 3402(o)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code and not
included in wages.
            4.   Any amount received that is treated as self-employment income
for federal tax purposes in accordance with section 1402(a)(8) of the Internal
Revenue Code.
            5.   Any amount not included in wages if all of the following
apply:
               A.   For the taxable year the amount is employee compensation
that is earned outside the United States and that either is included in the
taxpayer's gross income for federal income tax purposes or would have been
included in the taxpayer's gross income for such purposes if the taxpayer did
not elect to exclude the income under section 911 of the Internal Revenue Code;
               B.   For no preceding taxable year did the amount constitute
wages as defined in section 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue Code;
               C.   For no succeeding taxable year will the amount constitute
wages; and
               D.   For any taxable year the amount has not otherwise been
added to wages pursuant to either division (C)(35)(b) of this section or §
39.04, as that section existed before the effective date of H.B. 5 of the 130th
General Assembly, March 23, 2015.
      (36)   RELATED ENTITY.
         (a)   An individual stockholder, or a member of the stockholder's
family enumerated in section 318 of the Internal Revenue Code, if the
stockholder and the members of the stockholder's family own directly,
indirectly, beneficially, or constructively, in the aggregate, at least 50% of
the value of the taxpayer's outstanding stock;
         (b)   A stockholder, or a stockholder's partnership, estate, trust, or
corporation, if the stockholder and the stockholder's partnerships, estates,
trusts, or corporations own directly, indirectly, beneficially, or
constructively, in the aggregate, at least 50% of the value of the taxpayer's
outstanding stock;
         (c)   A corporation, or a party related to the corporation in a manner
that would require an attribution of stock from the corporation to the party or
from the party to the corporation under division (C)(36)(d) of this section,
provided the taxpayer owns directly, indirectly, beneficially, or
constructively, at least 50% of the value of the corporation's outstanding
stock;
         (d)   The attribution rules described in section 318 of the Internal
Revenue Code apply for the purpose of determining whether the ownership
requirements in divisions (C)(36)(a) to (c) of this section have been met.
      (37)   RELATED MEMBER. A person that, with respect to the taxpayer during
all or any portion of the taxable year, is either a related entity, a component
member as defined in section 1563(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, or a person
to or from whom there is attribution of stock ownership in accordance with
section 1563(e) of the Internal Revenue Code except, for purposes of
determining whether a person is a related member under this division, “twenty
percent (20%)” shall be substituted for “five percent (5%)” wherever “five
percent (5%)” appears in section 1563(e) of the Internal Revenue Code.
      (38)   RESIDENT. An individual who is domiciled in the municipal
corporation as determined under §
39.03(E).
      (39)   S CORPORATION. A person that has made an election under subchapter
S of Chapter 1 of Subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code for its taxable year.
      (40)   SCHEDULE C. Internal Revenue Service schedule C (form 1040) filed
by a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (41)   SCHEDULE E. Internal Revenue Service schedule E (form 1040) filed
by a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (42)   SCHEDULE F. Internal Revenue Service schedule F (form 1040) filed
by a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (43)   SINGLE MEMBER LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY. A limited liability
company that has one direct member.
      (44)   SMALL EMPLOYER. Any employer that had total revenue of less than
$500,000 during the preceding taxable year. For purposes of this division,
TOTAL REVENUE means receipts of any type or kind, including, but not limited
to, sales receipts; payments; rents; profits; gains, dividends, and other
investment income; compensation; commissions; premiums; money; property;
grants; contributions; donations; gifts; program service revenue; patient
service revenue; premiums; fees, including premium fees and service fees;
tuition payments; unrelated business revenue; reimbursements; any type of
payment from a governmental unit, including grants and other allocations; and
any other similar receipts reported for federal income tax purposes or under
generally accepted accounting principles. SMALL EMPLOYER does not include the
federal government; any state government, including any state agency or
instrumentality; any political subdivision; or any entity treated as a
government for financial accounting and reporting purposes.
      (45)   TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The Director of Finance has the direct
responsibility for administration of an income tax levied by the village in
accordance with this chapter.
      (46)   TAX RETURN PREPARER. Any individual described in section 7701(a)
(36) of the Internal Revenue Code and 26 C.F.R. 301.7701-15.
      (47)   TAXABLE YEAR. The corresponding tax reporting period as prescribed
for the taxpayer under the Internal Revenue Code.
      (48)   (a)   TAXPAYER. A person subject to a tax levied on income by a
municipal corporation in accordance with this chapter. TAXPAYER does not
include a grantor trust or, except as provided in division (C)(48)(b)1. of this
section, a disregarded entity.
         (b)   1.   A single member limited liability company that is a
disregarded entity for federal tax purposes may be a separate taxpayer from its
single member in all Ohio municipal corporations in which it either filed as a
separate taxpayer or did not file for its taxable year ending in 2003, if all
of the following conditions are met:
               A.   The limited liability company's single member is also a
limited liability company.
               B.   The limited liability company and its single member were
formed and doing business in one or more Ohio municipal corporations for at
least five years before January 1, 2004.
               C.   Not later than December 31, 2004, the limited liability
company and its single member each made an election to be treated as a separate
taxpayer under division (C)(38) of this section as this section existed on
December 31, 2004.
               D.   The limited liability company was not formed for the
purpose of evading or reducing Ohio municipal corporation income tax liability
of the limited liability company or its single member.
               E.   The Ohio municipal corporation that was the primary place
of business of the sole member of the limited liability company consented to
the election.
            2.   For purposes of division (C)(48)(b)2. of this section, a
municipal corporation was the primary place of business of a limited liability
company if, for the limited liability company's taxable year ending in 2003,
its income tax liability was greater in that municipal corporation than in any
other municipal corporation in Ohio, and that tax liability to that municipal
corporation for its taxable year ending in 2003 was at least $400,000.
      (49)   TAXPAYERS' RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES. The rights provided to
taxpayers in §§
39.09,
39.12,
39.13,
39.19(B),
39.20,
39.21 and R.C. §§ 5717.011 and 5717.03, and the responsibilities of taxpayers
to file, report, withhold, remit, and pay municipal income tax and otherwise
comply with R.C. Chapter 718 and resolutions, ordinances, and rules and
regulations adopted by the village for the imposition and administration of a
municipal income tax.
      (50)   VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3770.21.
      (51)   VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINAL SALES AGENT. A lottery sales agent licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3770 to conduct video lottery terminals on behalf of the
state pursuant to R.C. § 3770.21.
(Ord. 33-2015, passed 11-3-2015)
§ 39.03 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   The income tax levied by the village at a rate of 1% is levied on the
municipal taxable income of every person residing in and/or earning and/or
receiving income in the village.
Individuals.
   (A)   For residents of the village the income tax levied herein shall be on
all income, salaries, qualifying wages, commissions, and other compensation
from whatever source earned or received by the resident, including the
resident's distributive share of the net profit of pass-through entities owned
directly or indirectly by the resident and any net profit of the resident. This
is further detailed in the definition of income (§
39.02(C)(16)).
   (B)   For nonresidents, all income, salaries, qualifying wages, commissions,
and other compensation from whatever source earned or received by the
nonresident for work done, services performed or rendered, or activities
conducted in the municipal corporation, including any net profit of the
nonresident, but excluding the nonresident's distributive share of the net
profit or loss of only pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by
the nonresident.
   (C)   For residents and nonresidents, income can be reduced to MUNICIPAL
TAXABLE INCOME as defined in §
39.02 (C)(21). Exemptions which may apply are specified in §
39.02 (C)(12).
Refundable Credit for Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan.
   (D)   (1)   As used in this division:
         (a)   NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN means a compensation
plan described in section 3121(v)(2)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code.
         (b)   QUALIFYING LOSS means the amount of compensation attributable to
a taxpayer's nonqualified deferred compensation plan, less the receipt of money
and property attributable to  distributions from the nonqualified deferred
compensation plan. Full loss is sustained if no distribution of money and
property is made by the nonqualified deferred compensation plan. The taxpayer
sustains a qualifying loss only in the taxable year in which the taxpayer
receives the final distribution of money and property pursuant to that
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
         (c)   1.   QUALIFYING TAX RATE means the applicable tax rate for the
taxable year for which the taxpayer paid income tax to the village with respect
to any portion of the total amount of compensation the payment of which is
deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
            2.   If different tax rates applied for different taxable years,
then the QUALIFYING TAX RATE is a weighted average of those different tax
rates. The weighted average shall be based upon the tax paid to the village
each year with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
         (d)   REFUNDABLE CREDIT means the amount of the village income tax
that was paid on the non-distributed portion, if any, of a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan.
      (2)   If, in addition to the village, a taxpayer has paid tax to other
municipal corporations with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation
plan, the amount of the credit that a taxpayer may claim from each municipal
corporation shall be calculated on the basis of each municipal corporation's
proportionate share of the total municipal corporation income tax paid by the
taxpayer to all municipal corporations with respect to the nonqualified
deferred compensation plan.
      (3)   In no case shall the amount of the credit allowed under this
section exceed the cumulative income tax that a taxpayer has paid to the
village for all taxable years with respect to the nonqualified deferred
compensation plan.
      (4)   The credit allowed under this division is allowed only to the
extent the taxpayer's qualifying loss is attributable to:
         (a)   The insolvency or bankruptcy of the employer who had established
the nonqualified deferred compensation plan; or
         (b)   The employee's failure or inability to satisfy all of the
employer's terms and conditions necessary to receive the nonqualified deferred
compensation.
Domicile.
   (E)   (1)   (a)   An individual is presumed to be domiciled in the village
for all or part of a taxable year if the individual was domiciled in the
village on the last day of the immediately preceding taxable year or if the Tax
Administrator reasonably concludes that the individual is domiciled in the
village for all or part of the taxable year.
         (b)   An individual may rebut the presumption of domicile described in
division (E)(1)(a) of this section if the individual establishes by a
preponderance of the evidence that the individual was not domiciled in the
village for all or part of the taxable year.
      (2)   For the purpose of determining whether an individual is domiciled
in the village for all or part of a taxable year, factors that may be
considered include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   The individual's domicile in other taxable years;
         (b)   The location at which the individual is registered to vote;
         (c)   The address on the individuals driver's license;
         (d)   The location of real estate for which the individual claimed a
property tax exemption or reduction allowed on the basis of the individual's
residence or domicile;
         (e)   The location and value of abodes owned or leased by the
individual;
         (f)   Declarations, written or oral, made by the individual regarding
the individual's residency;
         (g)   The primary location at which the individual is employed;
         (h)   The location of educational institutions attended by the
individual's dependents as defined in section 152 of the Internal Revenue Code,
to the extent that tuition paid to such educational institution is based on the
residency of the individual or the individual's spouse in the municipal
corporation where the educational institution is located;
         (i)   The number of contact periods the individual has with the
village. For the purposes of this division, an individual has one “contact
period” with the village if the individual is away overnight from the
individual's abode located outside of the village and while away overnight from
that abode spends at least some portion, however minimal, of each of two
consecutive days in the village.
      (3)   All additional applicable factors are provided in the village Rules
and Regulations.
Businesses.
   (F)   This division applies to any taxpayer engaged in a business or
profession in the village, unless the taxpayer is an individual who resides in
the village or the taxpayer is an electric company, combined company, or
telephone company that is subject to and required to file reports under R.C.
Chapter 5745.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (F)(2) of this section,
net profit from a business or profession conducted both within and without the
boundaries of the village shall be considered as having a taxable status in the
village for purposes of municipal income taxation in the same proportion as the
average ratio of the following:
         (a)   The average original cost of the real property and tangible
personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in the business or profession
in the village during the taxable period to the average original cost of all of
the real and tangible personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in the
business or profession during the same period, wherever situated;
As used in the preceding paragraph, tangible personal or real property shall
include property rented or leased by the taxpayer and the value of such
property shall be determined by multiplying the annual rental thereon by eight;
         (b)   Wages, salaries, and other compensation paid during the taxable
period to individuals employed in the business or profession for services
performed in the village to wages, salaries, and other compensation paid during
the same period to individuals employed in the business or profession, wherever
the individual's services are performed, excluding compensation from which
taxes are not required to be withheld under §
39.04(C);
         (c)   Total gross receipts of the business or profession from sales
and rentals made and services performed during the taxable period in the
village to total gross receipts of the business or profession during the same
period from sales, rentals, and services, wherever made or performed.
      (2)   (a)   If the apportionment factors described in division (F)(1) of
this section do not fairly represent the extent of a taxpayer's business
activity in the village, the taxpayer may request, or the Tax Administrator of
the village may require, that the taxpayer use, with respect to all or any
portion of the income of the taxpayer, an alternative apportionment method
involving one or more of the following:
            1.   Separate accounting;
            2.   The exclusion of one or more of the factors;
            3.   The inclusion of one or more additional factors that would
provide for a more fair apportionment of the income of the taxpayer to the
municipal corporation;
            4.   A modification of one or more of the factors.
         (b)   A taxpayer request to use an alternative apportionment method
shall be in writing and shall accompany a tax return, timely filed appeal of an
assessment, or timely filed amended tax return. The taxpayer may use the
requested alternative method unless the Tax Administrator denies the request in
an assessment issued within the period prescribed by §
39.12(A).
         (c)   The Tax Administrator may require a taxpayer to use an
alternative apportionment method as described in division (F)(2)(a) of this
section, but only by issuing an assessment to the taxpayer within the period
prescribed by §
39.12(A).
         (d)   Nothing in division (F)(2) of this section nullifies or
otherwise affects any alternative apportionment arrangement approved by the Tax
Administrator or otherwise agreed upon by both the Tax Administrator and
taxpayer before January 1, 2016.
      (3)   As used in division (F)(1)(b) of this section, “wages, salaries,
and other compensation” includes only wages, salaries, or other compensation
paid to an employee for services performed at any of the following locations:
         (a)   A location that is owned, controlled, or used by, rented to, or
under the possession of one of the following:
            1.   The employer;
            2.   A vendor, customer, client, or patient of the employer, or a
related member of such a vendor, customer, client, or patient;
            3.   A vendor, customer, client, or patient of a person described
in division (F)(3)(a)2. of this section, or a related member of such a vendor,
customer, client, or patient.
         (b)   Any location at which a trial, appeal, hearing, investigation,
inquiry, review, court-martial, or similar administrative, judicial, or
legislative matter or proceeding is being conducted, provided that the
compensation is paid for services performed for, or on behalf of, the employer
or that the employee's presence at the location directly or indirectly benefits
the employer;
         (c)   Any other location, if the Tax Administrator determines that the
employer directed the employee to perform the services at the other location in
lieu of a location described in division (F)(3)(a) or (b) of this section
solely in order to avoid or reduce the employer's municipal income tax
liability. If the Tax Administrator makes such a determination, the employer
may dispute the determination by establishing, by a preponderance of the
evidence, that the Tax Administrator's determination was unreasonable.
      (4)   For the purposes of division (F)(1)(c) of this section, receipts
from sales and rentals made and services performed shall be sitused to a
municipal corporation as follows:
         (a)   Gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property shall
be sitused to the municipal corporation in which the sale originated. For the
purposes of this division, a sale of property originates in the village if,
regardless of where title passes, the property meets any of the following
criteria:
            1.   The property is shipped to or delivered within the village
from a stock of goods located within the village.
            2.   The property is delivered within the village from a location
outside the village, provided the taxpayer is regularly engaged through its own
employees in the solicitation or promotion of sales within the village and the
sales result from such solicitation or promotion.
            3.   The property is shipped from a place within the village to
purchasers outside the municipal corporation, provided that the taxpayer is
not, through its own employees, regularly engaged in the solicitation or
promotion of sales at the place where delivery is made.
         (b)   Gross receipts from the sale of services shall be sitused to the
village to the extent that such services are performed in the village.
         (c)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from the sale
of real property located in the village shall be sitused to the village.
         (d)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from rents and
royalties from real property located in the village shall be sitused to the
village.
         (e)   Gross receipts from rents and royalties from tangible personal
property shall be sitused to the village based upon the extent to which the
tangible personal property is used in the village.
      (5)   The net profit received by an individual taxpayer from the rental
of real estate owned directly by the individual, or by a disregarded entity
owned by the individual, shall be subject to the village’s tax only if the
property generating the net profit is located in the village or if the
individual taxpayer that receives the net profit is a resident of the village.
The village shall allow such taxpayers to elect to use separate accounting for
the purpose of calculating net profit sitused under this division to the
municipal corporation in which the property is located
      (6)   (a)   Commissions received by a real estate agent or broker
relating to the sale, purchase, or lease of real estate shall be sitused to the
municipal corporation in which the real estate is located. Net profit reported
by the real estate agent or broker shall be allocated to, if applicable, based
upon the ratio of the commissions the agent or broker received from the sale,
purchase, or lease of real estate located in the village to the commissions
received from the sale, purchase, or lease of real estate everywhere in the
taxable year.
         (b)   An individual who is a resident of the village shall report the
individual's net profit from all real estate activity on the individual's
annual tax return for the village. The individual may claim a credit for taxes
the individual paid on such net profit to another municipal corporation to the
extent that such a credit is allowed under the village’s income tax ordinances.
      (7)   When calculating the ratios described in division (F)(1) of this
section for the purposes of that division or division (F)(2) of this section,
the owner of a disregarded entity shall include in the owner's ratios the
property, payroll, and gross receipts of such disregarded entity.
(Ord. 33-2015, passed 11-3-2015)
§ 39.04 COLLECTION AT SOURCE.
Withholding Provisions.
   (A)   Each employer, agent of an employer, or other payer located or doing
business in the village shall withhold an income tax from the qualifying wages
earned and/or received by each employee in the village. Except for qualifying
wages for which withholding is not required under §
39.03 or division (B)(4) or (B)(6) of this section, the tax shall be withheld
at the rate, specified in §
39.01(B)(1), of 1%. An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer shall
deduct and withhold the tax from qualifying wages on the date that the
employer, agent, or other payer directly, indirectly, or constructively pays
the qualifying wages to, or credits the qualifying wages to the benefit of, the
employee.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, an
employer, agent of an employer, or other payer shall remit to the Tax
Administrator of the village the greater of the income taxes deducted and
withheld or the income taxes required to be deducted and withheld by the
employer, agent, or other payer according to the following schedule:
         (a)   Taxes required to be deducted and withheld shall be remitted
monthly to the Tax Administrator if the total taxes deducted and withheld or
required to be deducted and withheld by the employer, agent, or other payer on
behalf of the village in the preceding calendar year exceeded $2,399, or if the
total amount of taxes deducted and withheld or required to be deducted and
withheld on behalf of the village in any month of the preceding calendar
quarter exceeded $200.
   Payment under division (B)(1)(a) of this section shall be made so that the
payment is received by the Tax Administrator not later than 15 days after the
last day of each month for which the tax was withheld.
         (b)   Any employer, agent of an employer, or other payer not required
to make payments under division (B)(1)(a) of this section of taxes required to
be deducted and withheld shall make quarterly payments to the Tax Administrator
not later than the 15th day of the month following the end of each calendar
quarter.
      (2)   If the employer, agent of an employer, or other payer is required
to make payments electronically for the purpose of paying federal taxes
withheld on payments to employees under section 6302 of the Internal Revenue
Code, 26 C.F.R. 31.6302-1, or any other federal statute or regulation, the
payment shall be made by electronic funds transfer to the Tax Administrator of
all taxes deducted and withheld on behalf of the village. The payment of tax by
electronic funds transfer under this division does not affect an employer's,
agents, or other payer's obligation to file any return as required under this
section.
      (3)   An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer shall make and
file a return showing the amount of tax withheld by the employer, agent, or
other payer from the qualifying wages of each employee and remitted to the Tax
Administrator. A return filed by an employer, agent, or other payer under this
division shall be accepted by Tax Administrator and the village as the return
required of a nonresident employee whose sole income subject to the tax under
this chapter is the qualifying wages reported by the employee's employer, agent
of an employer, or other payer.
      (4)   An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer is not required
to withhold the village income tax with respect to an individual's
disqualifying disposition of an incentive stock option if, at the time of the
disqualifying disposition, the individual is not an employee of either the
corporation with respect to whose stock the option has been issued or of such
corporation's successor entity.
      (5)   (a)   An employee is not relieved from liability for a tax by the
failure of the employer, agent of an employer, or other payer to withhold the
tax as required under this chapter or by the employer's, agent's, or other
payer's exemption from the requirement to withhold the tax.
         (b)   The failure of an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer
to remit to the village the tax withheld relieves the employee from liability
for that tax unless the employee colluded with the employer, agent, or other
payer in connection with the failure to remit the tax withheld.
      (6)   Compensation deferred before June 26, 2003, is not subject to the
village income tax or income tax withholding requirement to the extent the
deferred compensation does not constitute qualifying wages at the time the
deferred compensation is paid or distributed.
      (7)   Each employer, agent of an employer, or other payer required to
withhold taxes is liable for the payment of that amount required to be
withheld, whether or not such taxes have been withheld, and such amount shall
be deemed to be held in trust for the village until such time as the withheld
amount is remitted to the Tax Administrator.
      (8)   On or before the last day of February of each year, an employer
shall file a withholding reconciliation return with the Tax Administrator
listing:
         (a)   The names, addresses, and Social Security numbers of all
employees from whose qualifying wages tax was withheld or should have been
withheld for the village during the preceding calendar year;
         (b)   The amount of tax withheld, if any, from each such employee, the
total amount of qualifying wages paid to such employee during the preceding
calendar year;
         (c)   The name of every other municipal corporation for which tax was
withheld or should have been withheld from such employee during the preceding
calendar year;
         (d)   Any other information required for federal income tax reporting
purposes on Internal Revenue Service form W-2 or its equivalent form with
respect to such employee;
         (e)   Other information as may be required by the Tax Administrator.
      (9)   The officer or the employee of the employer, agent of an employer,
or other payer with control or direct supervision of or charged with the
responsibility for withholding the tax or filing the reports and making
payments as required by this section, shall be personally liable for a failure
to file a report or pay the tax due as required by this section. The
dissolution of an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer does not
discharge the officer's or employee's liability for a failure of the employer,
agent of an employer, or other payer to file returns or pay any tax due.
      (10)   An employer is required to deduct and withhold the village income
tax on tips and gratuities received by the employer's employees and
constituting qualifying wages, but only to the extent that the tips and
gratuities are under the employer's control. For the purposes of this division,
a tip or gratuity is under the employer's control if the tip or gratuity is
paid by the customer to the employer for subsequent remittance to the employee,
or if the customer pays the tip or gratuity by credit card, debit card, or
other electronic means.
      (11)   The Tax Administrator shall consider any tax withheld by an
employer at the request of an employee, when such tax is not otherwise required
to be withheld by this chapter, to be tax required to be withheld and remitted
for the purposes of this section.
Occasional Entrant - Withholding
   (C)   (1)   As used in this division:
         (a)   EMPLOYER includes a person that is a related member to or of an
employer.
         (b)   FIXED LOCATION means a permanent place of doing business in this
state, such as an office, warehouse, storefront, or similar location owned or
controlled by an employer.
         (c)   PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means the fixed location to which an
employee is required to report for employment duties on a regular and ordinary
basis. If the employee is not required to report for employment duties on a
regular and ordinary basis to a fixed location, PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means
the worksite location in this state to which the employee is required to report
for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis. If the employee is not
required to report for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis to a
fixed location or worksite location, PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means the location
in this state at which the employee spends the greatest number of days in a
calendar year performing services for or on behalf of the employee's employer.
   If there is not a single municipal corporation in which the employee spent
the “greatest number of days in a calendar year” performing services for or on
behalf of the employer, but instead there are two or more municipal
corporations in which the employee spent an identical number of days that is
greater than the number of days the employee spent in any other municipal
corporation, the employer shall allocate any of the employee's qualifying wages
subject to division (C)(2)(a)1. of this section among those two or more
municipal corporations. The allocation shall be made using any fair and
reasonable method, including, but not limited to, an equal allocation among
such municipal corporations or an allocation based upon the time spent or sales
made by the employee in each such municipal corporation. A municipal
corporation to which qualifying wages are allocated under this division shall
be the employee's “principal place of work” with respect to those qualifying
wages for the purposes of this section.
   For the purposes of this division, the location at which an employee spends
a particular day shall be determined in accordance with division (C)(2)(b) of
this section, except that “location” shall be substituted for “municipal
corporation” wherever “municipal corporation” appears in that division.
         (d)   PROFESSIONAL ATHLETE means an athlete who performs services in a
professional athletic event for wages or other remuneration.
         (e)   PROFESSIONAL ENTERTAINER means a person who performs services in
the professional performing arts for wages or other remuneration on a per-event
basis.
         (f)   PUBLIC FIGURE means a person of prominence who performs services
at discrete events, such as speeches, public appearances, or similar events,
for wages or other remuneration on a per-event basis.
         (g)   WORKSITE LOCATION means a construction site or other temporary
worksite in this state at which the employer provides services for more than 20
days during the calendar year. WORKSITE LOCATION does not include the home of
an employee.
      (2)   (a)   Subject to divisions (C)(3), (C)(5), (C)(6), and (C)(7) of
this section, an employer is not required to withhold the village income tax on
qualifying wages paid to an employee for the performance of personal services
in the village the employee performed such services in the village on 20 or
fewer days in a calendar year, unless one of the following conditions applies:
            1.   The employee's principal place of work is located in the
village.
            2.   The employee performed services at one or more presumed
worksite locations in the village. For the purposes of this division, PRESUMED
WORKSITE LOCATION means a construction site or other temporary worksite in the
village at which the employer provides or provided services that can reasonably
be, or would have been, expected by the employer to last more than 20 days in a
calendar year. Services can “reasonably be expected by the employer to last
more than 20 days” if either of the following applies at the time the services
commence:
               A.   The nature of the services are such that it will require
more than 20 days of the services to complete the services;
               B.   The agreement between the employer and its customer to
perform services at a location requires the employer to perform the services at
the location for more than 20 days.
            3.   The employee is a resident of the village and has requested
that the employer withhold tax from the employee's qualifying wages as provided
in §
39.04.
            4.   The employee is a professional athlete, professional
entertainer, or public figure, and the qualifying wages are paid for the
performance of services in the employee's capacity as a professional athlete,
professional entertainer, or public figure.
         (b)   For the purposes of division (C)(2)(a) of this section, an
employee shall be considered to have spent a day performing services in the
village only if the employee spent more time performing services for or on
behalf of the employer in the village than in any other municipal corporation
on that day. For the purposes of determining the amount of time an employee
spent in a particular location, the time spent performing one or more of the
following activities shall be considered to have been spent at the employee's
principal place of work:
            1.   Traveling to the location at which the employee will first
perform services for the employer for the day;
            2.   Traveling from a location at which the employee was performing
services for the employer to any other location;
            3.   Traveling from any location to another location in order to
pick up or load, for the purpose of transportation or delivery, property that
has been purchased, sold, assembled, fabricated, repaired, refurbished,
processed, remanufactured, or improved by the employee's employer;
            4.   Transporting or delivering property described in division (C)
(2)(b)3. of this section, provided that, upon delivery of the property, the
employee does not temporarily or permanently affix the property to real estate
owned, used, or controlled by a person other than the employee's employer;
            5.   Traveling from the location at which the employee makes the
employee's final delivery or pick-up for the day to either the employee's
principal place of work or a location at which the employee will not perform
services for the employer.
      (3)   If the principal place of work of an employee is located in another
Ohio municipal corporation that imposes an income tax, the exception from
withholding requirements described in division (C)(2)(a) of this section shall
apply only if, with respect to the employee's qualifying wages described in
that division, the employer withholds and remits tax on such qualifying wages
to that municipal corporation.
      (4)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(4)(b) of this section, if,
during a calendar year, the number of days an employee spends performing
personal services in the village exceeds the 20-day threshold, the employer
shall withhold and remit tax to the village for any subsequent days in that
calendar year on which the employer pays qualifying wages to the employee for
personal services performed in the village.
         (b)   An employer required to begin withholding tax for the village
under division (C)(4)(a) of this section may elect to withhold tax for the
village for the first 20 days on which the employer paid qualifying wages to
the employee for personal services performed in the village.
      (5)   If an employer's fixed location is the village and the employer
qualifies as a small employer as defined in §
39.02, the employer shall withhold municipal income tax on all of the
employee's qualifying wages for a taxable year and remit that tax only to the
village, regardless of the number of days which the employee worked outside the
corporate boundaries of the village.
   To determine whether an employer qualifies as a small employer for a taxable
year, a the employer will be required to provide the Tax Administrator with the
employer's federal income tax return for the preceding taxable year.
      (6)   Divisions (C)(2)(a) and (C)(4) of this section shall not apply to
the extent that a Tax Administrator and an employer enter into an agreement
regarding the manner in which the employer shall comply with the requirements
of §
39.04.
(Ord. 33-2015, passed 11-3-2015)
§ 39.05 ANNUAL RETURN; FILING.
   (A)   An annual village income tax return shall be completed and filed by
every individual taxpayer 16 years of age or older.
      (1)   The Tax Administrator may accept on behalf of all nonresident
individual taxpayers a return filed by an employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer under this section when the nonresident individual taxpayer's sole
income subject to the tax is the qualifying wages reported by the employer,
agent of an employer, or other payer, and no additional tax is due the village.
      (2)   Retirees having no municipal taxable income for village income tax
purposes may file with the Tax Administrator a written exemption from these
filing requirements on a form prescribed by the Tax Administrator or when
filing their next annual tax return. Disabled individuals should follow the
same process as retirees. The written exemption shall indicate the date of
retirement and the entity from which retired or for disabled individuals the
date of disability. The exemption shall be filed with the village Tax
Administrator every three years, at which time the retiree shall be required to
comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   If an individual is deceased, any return or notice required of that
individual shall be completed and filed by that decedent's executor,
administrator, or other person charged with the property of that decedent.
   (C)   If an individual is unable to complete and file a return or notice
required by the village, the return or notice required of that individual shall
be completed and filed by the individual's duly authorized agent, guardian,
conservator, fiduciary, or other person charged with the care of the person or
property of that individual.
   (D)   Returns or notices required of an estate or a trust shall be completed
and filed by the fiduciary of the estate or trust.
   (E)   The village shall permit spouses to file a joint return.
   (F)   (1)   Each return required to be filed under this division shall
contain the signature of the taxpayer or the taxpayer's duly authorized agent
and of the person who prepared the return for the taxpayer. The return shall
include the taxpayer's Social Security number or taxpayer identification
number. Each return shall be verified by a declaration under penalty of
perjury.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator shall require a taxpayer who is an individual
to include, with each annual return and amended return, copies of the following
documents: all of the taxpayer's Internal Revenue Service form W-2, “Wage and
Tax Statements,” including all information reported on the taxpayer's federal
W-2, as well as taxable wages reported or withheld for any municipal
corporation; the taxpayer's Internal Revenue Service form 1040; and, with
respect to an amended tax return, any other documentation necessary to support
the adjustments made in the amended return. An individual taxpayer who files
the annual return required by this section electronically is not required to
provide paper copies of any of the foregoing to the Tax Administrator unless
the Tax Administrator requests such copies after the return has been filed.
      (3)   The Tax Administrator may require a taxpayer that is not an
individual to include, with each annual net profit return, amended net profit
return, or request for refund required under this section, copies of only the
following documents: the taxpayer's Internal Revenue Service form 1041, form
1065, form 1120, form 1120-REIT, form 1120F, or form 1120S, and, with respect
to an amended tax return or refund request, any other documentation necessary
to support the refund request or the adjustments made in the amended return.
   A taxpayer that is not an individual and that files an annual net profit
return electronically through the Ohio Business Gateway or in some other manner
shall either mail the documents required under this division to the Tax
Administrator at the time of filing or, if electronic submission is available,
submit the documents electronically through the Ohio Business Gateway.
      (4)   After a taxpayer files a tax return, the Tax Administrator may
request, and the taxpayer shall provide, any information, statements, or
documents required by the village to determine and verify the taxpayer's
municipal income tax liability. The requirements imposed under division (F) of
this section apply regardless of whether the taxpayer files on a generic form
or on a form prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, each return
required to be filed under this section shall be completed and filed as
required by the Tax Administrator on or before the date prescribed for the
filing of state individual income tax returns under division (G) of R.C. §
5747.08. The taxpayer shall complete and file the return or notice on forms
prescribed by the Tax Administrator or on generic forms, together with
remittance made payable to the village. No remittance is required if the net
amount s due is $10 or less.
      (2)   Any taxpayer that has duly requested an automatic six-month
extension for filing the taxpayer's federal income tax return shall
automatically receive an extension for the filing of the village income tax
return. The extended due date of the village’s income tax return shall be the
15th day of the tenth month after the last day of the taxable year to which the
return relates (October 15). An extension of time to file under this division
is not an extension of the time to pay any tax due unless the Tax Administrator
grants an extension of that date.
         (a)   A copy of the federal extension request shall be included with
the filing of the village income tax return.
         (b)   A taxpayer that has not requested or received a six-month
extension for filing the taxpayer's federal income tax return may request that
the Tax Administrator grant the taxpayer a six-month extension of the date for
filing the taxpayer's the village income tax return. If the request is received
by the Tax Administrator on or before the date the village income tax return is
due, the Tax Administrator shall grant the taxpayer's requested extension.
      (3)   If the Tax Commissioner extends for all taxpayers the date for
filing state income tax returns under division (G) of R.C. § 5747.08, a
taxpayer shall automatically receive an extension for the filing of the
village’s income tax return. The extended due date of the village income tax
return shall be the same as the extended due date of the state income tax
return.
      (4)   If the Tax Administrator considers it necessary in order to ensure
the payment of the tax imposed by the village, the Tax Administrator may
require taxpayers to file returns and make payments otherwise than as provided
in this division, including taxpayers not otherwise required to file annual
returns.
      (5)   To the extent that any provision in this division (G) of this
section conflicts with any provision in divisions (N), (O), (P), or (Q) of this
section, the provisions in divisions (N), (O), (P), or (Q) prevail.
   (H)   (1)   For taxable years beginning after 2015, the village shall not
require a taxpayer to remit tax with respect to net profits if the net amount
due is $10 or less.
      (2)   Any taxpayer not required to remit tax to the village for a taxable
year pursuant to division (H)(1) of this section shall file with the village an
annual net profit return under division (F)(3) of this section.
   (I)   If a payment is required to be made by electronic funds transfer, the
payment is considered to be made when the payment is credited to an account
designated by the Tax Administrator for the receipt of tax payments, except
that, when a payment made by electronic funds transfer is delayed due to
circumstances not under the control of the taxpayer, the payment is considered
to be made when the taxpayer submitted the payment. This division shall not
apply to payments required to be made under §
39.04(B)(1)(a) or provisions for semi-monthly withholding.
   (J)   Taxes withheld for the village by an employer, the agent of an
employer, or other payer as described in §
39.04 shall be allowed to the taxpayer as credits against payment of the tax
imposed on the taxpayer by the village, unless the amounts withheld were not
remitted to the village and the recipient colluded with the employer, agent, or
other payer in connection with the failure to remit the amounts withheld.
   (K)   Each return required by the village to be filed in accordance with
this division shall include a box that the taxpayer may check to authorize
another person, including a tax return preparer who prepared the return, to
communicate with the Tax Administrator about matters pertaining to the return.
   (L)   The Tax Administrator shall accept for filing a generic form of any
income tax return, report, or document required by the village, provided that
the generic form, once completed and filed, contains all of the information
required by ordinance, resolution, or rules and regulations adopted by the
village or the Tax Administrator, and provided that the taxpayer or tax return
preparer filing the generic form otherwise complies with the provisions of this
chapter and of the village’s ordinance, resolution, or rules and regulations
governing the filing of returns, reports, or documents.
Filing Via Ohio Business Gateway.
   (M)   (l)   Any taxpayer subject to municipal income taxation with respect
to the taxpayer's net profit from a business or profession may file the
village’s income tax return, estimated municipal income tax return, or
extension for filing a municipal income tax return, and may make payment of
amounts shown to be due on such returns, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
With regard to a net profit return being filed via the Ohio Business Gateway,
the taxpayer must also submit a hard copy of their federal tax return showing
the amount paid via the Ohio Business Gateway with the village within a
reasonable amount of time. Keeping in mind the extension process in division
(G)(2) of this section.
      (2)   Any employer, agent of an employer, or other payer may report the
amount of municipal income tax withheld from qualifying wages, and may make
remittance of such amounts, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
      (3)   Nothing in this section affects the due dates for filing employer
withholding tax returns.
Extension for Service in or for the Armed Forces.
   (N)   Each member of the national guard of any state and each member of a
reserve component of the Armed Forces of the United States called to active
duty pursuant to an executive order issued by the President of the United
States or an act of the Congress of the United States, and each civilian
serving as support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in
support of the Armed Forces, may apply to the Tax Administrator of the village
for both an extension of time for filing of the return and an extension of time
for payment of taxes required by the village during the period of the member's
or civilian's duty service, and for 180 days thereafter. The application shall
be filed on or before 180th day after the member's or civilian's duty
terminates. An applicant shall provide such evidence as the Tax Administrator
considers necessary to demonstrate eligibility for the extension.
   (O)   (1)   If the Tax Administrator ascertains that an applicant is
qualified for an extension under this section, the Tax Administrator shall
enter into a contract with the applicant for the payment of the tax in
installments that begin on the 181st day after the applicant's active duty or
service terminates. The Tax Administrator may prescribe such contract terms as
the Tax Administrator considers appropriate. However, taxes pursuant to a
contract entered into under this division are not delinquent, and the Tax
Administrator shall not require any payments of penalties or interest in
connection with those taxes for the extension period.
      (2)   If the Tax Administrator determines that an applicant is qualified
for an extension under this section, the applicant shall neither be required to
file any return, report, or other tax document nor be required to pay any tax
otherwise due to the municipal corporation before the 181st day after the
applicant's active duty or service terminates.
      (3)   Taxes paid pursuant to a contract entered into under division (O)
(1) of this section are not delinquent. The Tax Administrator shall not require
any payments of penalties or interest in connection with those taxes for the
extension period.
   (P)   (l)   Nothing in this division denies to any person described in this
division the application of divisions (N) and (O) of this section.
      (2)   (a)   A qualifying taxpayer who is eligible for an extension under
the Internal Revenue Code shall receive both an extension of time in which to
file any return, report, or other tax document and an extension of time in
which to make any payment of taxes required by a municipal corporation in
accordance with this chapter. The length of any extension granted under
division (P)(2)(a) of this section shall be equal to the length of the
corresponding extension that the taxpayer receives under the Internal Revenue
Code. As used in this division, QUALIFYING TAXPAYER means a member of the
national guard or a member of a reserve component of the Armed Forces of the
United States called to active duty pursuant to either an executive order
issued by the President of the United States or an act of the Congress of the
United States, or a civilian serving as support personnel in a combat zone or
contingency operation in support of the Armed Forces.
         (b)   Taxes whose payment is extended in accordance with division (P)
(2)(a) of this section are not delinquent during the extension period. Such
taxes become delinquent on the first day after the expiration of the extension
period if the taxes are not paid prior to that date. The Tax Administrator
shall not require any payment of penalties or interest in connection with those
taxes for the extension period. The Tax Administrator shall not include any
period of extension granted under division (C)(2)(a) of this section in
calculating the penalty or interest due on any unpaid tax.
   (Q)   For each taxable year to which division (N), (O), or (P) of this
section applies to a taxpayer, the provisions of divisions (O)(2) and (O)(3) of
this section, as applicable, apply to the spouse of that taxpayer if the filing
status of the spouse and the taxpayer is married filing jointly for that year.
Consolidated Municipal Income Tax Return.
   (R)   As used in this section:
      (1)   AFFILIATED GROUP OF CORPORATIONS means an affiliated group as
defined in section 1504 of the Internal Revenue Code, except that, if such a
group includes at least one incumbent local exchange carrier that is primarily
engaged in the business of providing local exchange telephone service in this
state, the affiliated group shall not include any incumbent local exchange
carrier that would otherwise be included in the group.
      (2)   CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL INCOME TAX RETURN means a consolidated return
filed for federal income tax purposes pursuant to section 1501 of the Internal
Revenue Code.
      (3)   CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME means the consolidated taxable
income of an affiliated group of corporations, as computed for the purposes of
filing a consolidated federal income tax return, before consideration of net
operating losses or special deductions. CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME
does not include income or loss of an incumbent local exchange carrier that is
excluded from the affiliated group under division (R)(1) of this section.
      (4)   INCUMBENT LOCAL EXCHANGE CARRIER has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4927.01.
      (5)   LOCAL EXCHANGE TELEPHONE SERVICE has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5727.01.
   (S)   (l)   For taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2016, a
taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations may elect to
file a consolidated municipal income tax return for a taxable year if at least
one member of the affiliated group of corporations is subject to the village’s
income tax in that taxable year, and if the affiliated group of corporations
filed a consolidated federal income tax return with respect to that taxable
year. The election is binding for a five-year period beginning with the first
taxable year of the initial election unless a change in the reporting method is
required under federal law. The election continues to be binding for each
subsequent five-year period unless the taxpayer elects to discontinue filing
consolidated municipal income tax returns under division (S)(2) of this section
or a taxpayer receives permission from the Tax Administrator. The Tax
Administrator shall approve such a request for good cause shown.
      (2)   An election to discontinue filing consolidated municipal income tax
returns under this section must be made in the first year following the last
year of a five-year consolidated municipal income tax return election period in
effect under division (S)(l) of this section. The election to discontinue
filing a consolidated municipal income tax return is binding for a five-year
period beginning with the first taxable year of the election.
      (3)   An election made under division (S)(1) or (S)(2) of this section is
binding on all members of the affiliated group of corporations subject to a
municipal income tax.
   (T)   A taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations
that filed a consolidated federal income tax return for a taxable year shall
file a consolidated village income tax return for that taxable year if the Tax
Administrator determines, by a preponderance of the evidence, that intercompany
transactions have not been conducted at arm's length and that there has been a
distortive shifting of income or expenses with regard to allocation of net
profits to the village. A taxpayer that is required to file a consolidated
village income tax return for a taxable year shall file a consolidated village
income tax return for all subsequent taxable years, unless the taxpayer
requests and receives written permission from the Tax Administrator to file a
separate return or a taxpayer has experienced a change in circumstances.
   (U)   A taxpayer shall prepare a consolidated village income tax return in
the same manner as is required under the United States Department of Treasury
regulations that prescribe procedures for the preparation of the consolidated
federal income tax return required to be filed by the common parent of the
affiliated group of which the taxpayer is a member.
   (V)   (l)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (V)(2), (V)(3), and
(V)(4) of this section, corporations that file a consolidated municipal income
tax return shall compute adjusted federal taxable income, as defined in §
39.02, by substituting “consolidated federal taxable income” for “federal
taxable income” wherever “federal taxable income” appears in that division and
by substituting “an affiliated group of corporation's” for “a C corporation's”
wherever “a C corporation's” appears in that division.
      (2)   No corporation filing a consolidated village income tax return
shall make any adjustment otherwise required under §
39.02(C)(1) to the extent that the item of income or deduction otherwise
subject to the adjustment has been eliminated or consolidated in the
computation of consolidated federal taxable income.
      (3)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having at least
80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group's consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, the
corporation filing a consolidated village income tax return shall do one of the
following with respect to that pass-through entity's net profit or loss for
that taxable year:
         (a)   Exclude the pass-through entity's net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in divisions (R) through (Y) of
this section, exclude the property, payroll, and gross receipts of the pass-
through entity in the computation of the affiliated group's net profit sitused
to a municipal corporation. If the entity's net profit or loss is so excluded,
the entity shall be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis of
the entity's net profits that would otherwise be included in the consolidated
federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
         (b)   Include the pass-through entity's net profit or loss in the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in divisions (R) through (Y) of
this section, include the property, payroll, and gross receipts of the pass-
through entity in the computation of the affiliated group's net profit sitused
to a municipal corporation. If the entity's net profit or loss is so included,
the entity shall not be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis
of the entity's net profits that are included in the consolidated federal
taxable income of the affiliated group.
      (4)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having less than
80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group's consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, all
of the following shall apply:
         (a)   The corporation filing the consolidated municipal income tax
return shall exclude the pass-through entity's net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purposes of making the computations required in divisions (R) through (Y) of
this section, exclude the property, payroll, and gross receipts of the pass-
through entity in the computation of the affiliated group's net profit sitused
to the village;
         (b)   The pass-through entity shall be subject to the village income
taxation as a separate taxpayer in accordance with this chapter on the basis of
the entity's net profits that would otherwise be included in the consolidated
federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
   (W)   Corporations filing a consolidated village income tax return shall
make the computations required under divisions (R) through (Y) of this section
by substituting “consolidated federal taxable income attributable to” for “net
profit from” wherever “net profit from” appears in that section and by
substituting “affiliated group of corporations” for “taxpayer” wherever
“taxpayer” appears in that section.
   (X)   Each corporation filing a consolidated village income tax return is
jointly and severally liable for any tax, interest, penalties, fines, charges,
or other amounts imposed by the village in accordance with this chapter on the
corporation, an affiliated group of which the corporation is a member for any
portion of the taxable year, or any one or more members of such an affiliated
group.
   (Y)   Corporations and their affiliates that made an election or entered
into an agreement with the village before January 1, 2016, to file a
consolidated or combined tax return with the village may continue to file
consolidated or combined tax returns in accordance with such election or
agreement for taxable years beginning on and after January 1, 2016.
(Ord. 33-2015, passed 11-3-2015)
§ 39.06 CREDITS FOR TAX PAID TO OTHER MUNICIPALITIES.
   (A)   Every individual taxpayer domiciled in the village who is required to
and does pay, or has acknowledged liability for, a municipal tax to another
municipality on or measured by the same income, qualifying wages, commissions,
net profits or other compensation taxable under this chapter, may claim a
nonrefundable credit against the tax imposed by this chapter upon satisfactory
evidence that tax has been paid to another municipality. Subject to division
(C) of this section, the credit shall not exceed 50% of the amount obtained by
multiplying the income, qualifying wages, commissions, net profits or other
compensation subject to tax in the other municipality by the LOWER of the tax
rate in such other municipality OR the tax rate of 1/2%.
   (B)   The village shall grant a credit against its tax on income to a
resident of the village who works in a joint economic development zone created
under R.C. § 715.691 or a joint economic development district created under
R.C. § 715.70, 715.71, or 715.72 to the same extent that it grants a credit
against its tax on income to its residents who are employed in another
municipal corporation.
   (C)   If the amount of tax withheld or paid to the other municipality is
less than the amount of tax required to be withheld or paid to the other
municipality, then for purposes of division (A) of this section, “the income,
qualifying wages, commissions, net profits or other compensation” subject to
tax in the other municipality shall be limited to the amount computed by
dividing the tax withheld or paid to the other municipality by the tax rate for
that municipality.
(Ord. 33-2015, passed 11-3-2015)
§ 39.07 ESTIMATED TAXES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   ESTIMATED TAXES means the amount that the taxpayer reasonably
estimates to be the taxpayer's tax liability for the village’s income tax for
the current taxable year.
      (2)   TAX LIABILITY means the total taxes due to the village for the
taxable year, after allowing any credit to which the taxpayer is entitled, and
after applying any estimated tax payment, withholding payment, or credit from
another taxable year.
   (B)   (1)   Every taxpayer shall make a declaration of estimated taxes for
the current taxable year, on the form prescribed by the Tax Administrator, if
the amount payable as estimated taxes is at least $200 for the purposes of this
section:
         (a)   Taxes withheld for the village from qualifying wages shall be
considered as paid to the village in equal amounts on each payment date unless
the taxpayer establishes the dates on which all amounts were actually withheld,
in which case they shall be considered as paid on the dates on which the
amounts were actually withheld.
         (b)   An overpayment of tax applied as a credit to a subsequent
taxable year is deemed to be paid on the date of the postmark stamped on the
cover in which the payment is mailed or, if the payment is made by electronic
funds transfer, the date the payment is submitted. As used in this division,
DATE OF THE POSTMARK means, in the event there is more than one date on the
cover, the earliest date imprinted on the cover by the postal service.
      (2)   Taxpayers filing joint returns shall file joint declarations of
estimated taxes. A taxpayer may amend a declaration under rules prescribed by
the Tax Administrator. A taxpayer having a taxable year of less than 12 months
shall make a declaration under rules prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
      (3)   The declaration of estimated taxes shall be filed on or before the
date prescribed for the filing of municipal income tax returns under §
39.05(G) or on or before the 15th day of the fourth month after the taxpayer
becomes subject to tax for the first time.
      (4)   Taxpayers reporting on a fiscal year basis shall file a declaration
on or before the 15th day of the fourth month after the beginning of each
fiscal year or period.
      (5)   The original declaration or any subsequent amendment may be
increased or decreased on or before any subsequent quarterly payment day as
provided in this section.
   (C)   (1)   The required portion of the tax liability for the taxable year
that shall be paid through estimated taxes made payable to the village,
including the application of tax refunds to estimated taxes and withholding on
or before the applicable payment date, shall be as follows:
         (a)   On or before the 15th day of the fourth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 22.5% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         (b)   On or before the 15th day of the sixth month after the beginning
of the taxable year, 45% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         (c)   On or before the 15th day of the ninth month after the beginning
of the taxable year, 67.5% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         (d)   On or before the 15th day of the 12th month of the taxable year,
90% of the tax liability for the taxable year.
      (2)   When an amended declaration has been filed, the unpaid balance
shown due on the amended declaration shall be paid in equal installments on or
before the remaining payment dates.
      (3)   On or before the 15th day of the fourth month of the year following
that for which the declaration or amended declaration was filed, an annual
return shall be filed and any balance which may be due shall be paid with the
return in accordance with R.C. § 718.05.
   (D)   (1)   In the case of any underpayment of any portion of a tax
liability, penalty and interest may be imposed pursuant to §
39.18 upon the amount of underpayment for the period of underpayment, unless
the underpayment is due to reasonable cause as described in division (E) of
this section. The amount of the underpayment shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   For the first payment of estimated taxes each year, 22.5% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         (b)   For the second payment of estimated taxes each year, 45% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         (c)   For the third payment of estimated taxes each year, 67.5% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         (d)   For the fourth payment of estimated taxes each year, 90% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment.
      (2)   The period of the underpayment shall run from the day the estimated
payment was required to be made to the date on which the payment is made. For
purposes of this section, a payment of estimated taxes on or before any payment
date shall be considered a payment of any previous underpayment only to the
extent the payment of estimated taxes exceeds the amount of the payment
presently required to be paid to avoid any penalty.
   (E)   An underpayment of any portion of tax liability determined under
division (D) of this section shall be due to reasonable cause and the penalty
imposed by this section shall not be added to the taxes for the taxable year if
any of the following apply:
      (1)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 90% of
the tax liability for the current taxable year, determined by annualizing the
income received during the year up to the end of the month immediately
preceding the month in which the payment is due.
      (2)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 100%
of the tax liability shown on the return of the taxpayer for the preceding
taxable year, provided that the immediately preceding taxable year reflected a
period of 12 months and the taxpayer filed a return with the village under §
39.05 for that year.
      (3)   The taxpayer is an individual who resides in the village but was
not domiciled there on the first day of January of the calendar year that
includes the first day of the taxable year.
(Ord. 33-2015, passed 11-3-2015)
§ 39.08 ROUNDING OF AMOUNTS.
   A person may round to the nearest whole dollar all amounts the person is
required to enter on any return, report, voucher, or other document required
under this chapter. Any fractional part of a dollar that equals or exceeds $.50
shall be rounded to the next whole dollar, and any fractional part of a dollar
that is less than $.50 shall be dropped. If a person chooses to round amounts
entered on a document, the person shall round all amounts entered on the
document.
(Ord. 33-2015, passed 11-3-2015)
§ 39.09 REQUESTS FOR REFUNDS.
   (A)   As used in this section, WITHHOLDING TAX has the same meaning as in §
39.18.
   (B)   Upon receipt of a request for a refund, the Tax Administrator, in
accordance with this section, shall refund to employers, agents of employers,
other payers, or taxpayers, with respect to any income or withholding tax
levied by the municipal corporation:
      (1)   Overpayments of more than $10 or more;
      (2)   Amounts paid erroneously if the refund requested exceeds $10 or
more.
   (C)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, requests for
refund shall be filed with the Tax Administrator, on the form prescribed by the
Tax Administrator within three years after the tax was due or paid, whichever
is later. The Tax Administrator may require the requestor to file with the
request any documentation that substantiates the requestor's claim for a
refund.
      (2)   On filing of the refund request, the Tax Administrator shall
determine the amount of refund due and certify such amount to the appropriate
municipal corporation official for payment. Except as provided in division (C)
(3) of this section, the Administrator shall issue an assessment to any
taxpayer whose request for refund is fully or partially denied. The assessment
shall state the amount of the refund that was denied, the reasons for the
denial, and instructions for appealing the assessment.
      (3)   If a Tax Administrator denies in whole or in part a refund request
included within the taxpayer's originally filed annual income tax return, the
Tax Administrator shall notify the taxpayer, in writing, of the amount of the
refund that was denied, the reasons for the denial, and instructions for
requesting an assessment that may be appealed under §
39.21.
   (D)   A request for a refund that is received after the last day for filing
specified in division (C) of this section shall be considered to have been
filed in a timely manner if any of the following situations exist:
      (1)   The request is delivered by the postal service, and the earliest
postal service postmark on the cover in which the request is enclosed is not
later than the last day for filing the request.
      (2)   The request is delivered by the postal service, the only postmark
on the cover in which the request is enclosed was affixed by a private postal
meter, the date of that postmark is not later than the last day for filing the
request, and the request is received within seven days of such last day.
      (3)   The request is delivered by the postal service, no postmark date
was affixed to the cover in which the request is enclosed or the date of the
postmark so affixed is not legible, and the request is received within seven
days of the last day for making the request.
   (E)   Interest shall be allowed and paid on any overpayment by a taxpayer of
any municipal income tax obligation from the date of the overpayment until the
date of the refund of the overpayment, except that if any overpayment is
refunded within 90 days after the final filing date of the annual return or 90
days after the completed return is filed, whichever is later, no interest shall
be allowed on the refund. For the purpose of computing the payment of interest
on amounts overpaid, no amount of tax for any taxable year shall be considered
to have been paid before the date on which the return on which the tax is
reported is due, without regard to any extension of time for filing that
return. Interest shall be paid at the interest rate described in §
39.18(A)(4).
(Ord. 33-2015, passed 11-3-2015)
§ 39.10 SECOND MUNICIPALITY IMPOSING TAX AFTER TIME PERIOD ALLOWED FOR REFUND.
   (A)   Income tax that has been deposited with the village, but should have
been deposited with another municipality, is allowable by the village as a
refund but is subject to the three-year limitation on refunds.
   (B)   Income tax that was deposited with another municipality but should
have been deposited with the village is subject to recovery by the village. If
the village’s tax on that income is imposed after the time period allowed for a
refund of the tax or withholding paid to the other municipality, the village
shall allow a nonrefundable credit against the tax or withholding the village
claims is due with respect to such income or wages, equal to the tax or
withholding paid to the first municipality with respect to such income or
wages.
   (C)   If the village’s tax rate is less than the tax rate in the other
municipality, then the nonrefundable credit shall be calculated using the
village’s tax rate. However, if the village’s tax rate is greater than the tax
rate in the other municipality, the tax due in excess of the nonrefundable
credit is to be paid to the village, along with any penalty and interest that
accrued during the period of nonpayment.
   (D)   Nothing in this section permits any credit carryforward.
(Ord. 33-2015, passed 11-3-2015)
§ 39.11 AMENDED RETURNS.
   (A)   (1)   If a taxpayer's tax liability shown on the annual tax return for
the village changes as a result of an adjustment to the taxpayer's federal or
state income tax return, the taxpayer shall file an amended return with the
village. The amended return shall be filed on a form required by the Tax
Administrator.
      (2)   If a taxpayer intends to file an amended consolidated municipal
income tax return, or to amend its type of return from a separate return to a
consolidated return, based on the taxpayer's consolidated federal income tax
return, the taxpayer shall notify the Tax Administrator before filing the
amended return.
   (B)   (1)   In the case of an underpayment, the amended return shall be
accompanied by payment of any combined additional tax due, together with any
penalty and interest thereon. If the combined tax shown to be due is $10 or
less, no payment need be made. The amended return shall reopen those facts,
figures, computations, or attachments from a previously filed return that are
not affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the
taxpayer's federal or state income tax return only:
         (a)   To determine the amount of tax that would be due if all facts,
figures, computations, and attachments were reopened; or,
         (b)   If the applicable statute of limitations for civil actions or
prosecutions under §
39.12 has not expired for a previously filed return.
      (2)   The additional tax to be paid shall not exceed the amount of tax
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations, and attachments were
reopened; i.e., the payment shall be the lesser of the two amounts.
   (C)   (1)   In the case of an overpayment, a request for refund may be filed
under this division within the period prescribed by division (D) of this
section for filing the amended return, even if it is filed beyond the period
prescribed in that division if it otherwise conforms to the requirements of
that division. If the amount of the refund is less than $10, no refund need be
paid by the village. A request filed under this division shall claim refund of
overpayments resulting from alterations only to those facts, figures,
computations, or attachments required in the taxpayer's annual return that are
affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the taxpayer's
federal or state income tax return, unless it is also filed within the time
prescribed in §
39.09.
      (2)   The amount to be refunded shall not exceed the amount of refund
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations, and attachments were
reopened. All facts, figures, computations, and attachments may be reopened to
determine the refund amount due by inclusion of all facts, figures,
computations, and attachments.
   (D)   Within 60 days after the final determination of any federal or state
tax liability affecting the taxpayer's village tax liability, that taxpayer
shall make and file an amended village return showing income subject to village
income tax based upon such final determination of federal or state tax
liability. The taxpayer shall pay any additional village income tax shown due
thereon or make a claim for refund of any overpayment, unless the tax or
overpayment is less than $10.
(Ord. 33-2015, passed 11-3-2015)
§ 39.12 LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   Civil actions to recover municipal income taxes and
penalties and interest on municipal income taxes shall be brought within the
later of:
            1.   Three years after the tax was due or the return was filed,
whichever is later; or
            2.   One year after the conclusion of the qualifying deferral
period, if any.
         (b)   The time limit described in division (A)(1)(a) of this section
may be extended at any time if both the Tax Administrator and the employer,
agent of the employer, other payer, or taxpayer consent in writing to the
extension. Any extension shall also extend for the same period of time the time
limit described in division (C) of this section.
      (2)   As used in this section, QUALIFYING DEFERRAL PERIOD means a period
of time beginning and ending as follows:
         (a)   Beginning on the date a person who is aggrieved by an assessment
files with the Board of Tax Review the request described in §
39.21. That date shall not be affected by any subsequent decision, finding, or
holding by any administrative body or court that the Board of Tax Review did
not have jurisdiction to affirm, reverse, or modify the assessment or any part
of that assessment.
         (b)   Ending the later of the 60th day after the date on which the
final determination of the Board of Tax Review becomes final or, if any party
appeals from the determination of the Board of Tax Review, the 60th day after
the date on which the final determination of the Board of Tax Review is either
ultimately affirmed in whole or in part or ultimately reversed and no further
appeal of either that affirmation, in whole or in part, or that reversal is
available or taken.
   (B)   Prosecutions for an offense made punishable under a resolution or
ordinance imposing an income tax shall be commenced within three years after
the commission of the offense, provided that in the case of fraud, failure to
file a return, or the omission of 25% or more of income required to be
reported, prosecutions may be commenced within six years after the commission
of the offense.
   (C)   A claim for a refund of municipal income taxes shall be brought within
the time limitation provided in §
39.09.
   (D)   (1)   Notwithstanding the fact that an appeal is pending, the
petitioner may pay all or a portion of the assessment that is the subject of
the appeal. The acceptance of a payment by the village does not prejudice any
claim for refund upon final determination of the appeal.
      (2)   If upon final determination of the appeal an error in the
assessment is corrected by the Tax Administrator, upon an appeal so filed or
pursuant to a final determination of the Board of Tax Review, of the Ohio Board
of Tax Appeals, or any court to which the decision of the Ohio Board of Tax
Appeals has been appealed, so that the resultant amount due is less than the
amount paid, a refund will be paid in the amount of the overpayment as provided
by §
39.09, with interest on that amount as provided by §
39.09(E).
   (E)   No civil action to recover village income tax or related penalties or
interest shall be brought during either of the following time periods:
      (1)   The period during which a taxpayer has a right to appeal the
imposition of that tax or interest or those penalties;
      (2)   The period during which an appeal related to the imposition of that
tax or interest or those penalties is pending.
(Ord. 33-2015, passed 11-3-2015)
§ 39.13 AUDITS.
   (A)   At or before the commencement of an audit, the Tax Administrator shall
provide to the taxpayer a written description of the roles of the Tax
Administrator and of the taxpayer during the audit and a statement of the
taxpayer's rights, including any right to obtain a refund of an overpayment of
a tax. At or before the commencement of an audit, the Tax Administrator shall
inform the taxpayer when the audit is considered to have commenced.
   (B)   Except in cases involving suspected criminal activity, the Tax
Administrator shall conduct an audit of a taxpayer during regular business
hours and after providing reasonable notice to the taxpayer. A taxpayer who is
unable to comply with a proposed time for an audit on the grounds that the
proposed time would cause inconvenience or hardship must offer reasonable
alternative dates for the audit.
   (C)   At all stages of an audit by the Tax Administrator, a taxpayer is
entitled to be assisted or represented by an attorney, accountant, bookkeeper,
or other tax practitioner. The Tax Administrator shall prescribe a form by
which a taxpayer may designate such a person to assist or represent the
taxpayer in the conduct of any proceedings resulting from actions by the Tax
Administrator. If a taxpayer has not submitted such a form, the Tax
Administrator may accept other evidence, as the Tax Administrator considers
appropriate, that a person is the authorized representative of a taxpayer.
   A taxpayer may refuse to answer any questions asked by the person conducting
an audit until the taxpayer has an opportunity to consult with the taxpayer's
attorney, accountant, bookkeeper, or other tax practitioner.
   This division does not authorize the practice of law by a person who is not
an attorney.
   (D)   A taxpayer may record, electronically or otherwise, the audit
examination.
   (E)   The failure of the Tax Administrator to comply with a provision of
this section shall neither excuse a taxpayer from payment of any taxes owed by
the taxpayer nor cure any procedural defect in a taxpayer's case.
   (F)   If the Tax Administrator fails to substantially comply with the
provisions of this section, the Tax Administrator, upon application by the
taxpayer, shall excuse the taxpayer from penalties and interest.
(Ord. 33-2015, passed 11-3-2015)
§ 39.14 SERVICE OF ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   LAST KNOWN ADDRESS means the address the Tax Administrator has at
the time a document is originally sent by certified mail, or any address the
Tax Administrator can ascertain using reasonable means such as the use of a
change of address service offered by the postal service or an authorized
delivery service under R.C. § 5703.056.
      (2)   UNDELIVERABLE ADDRESS means an address to which the postal service
or an authorized delivery service under R.C. § 5703.056 is not able to deliver
an assessment of the Tax Administrator, except when the reason for non-delivery
is because the addressee fails to acknowledge or accept the assessment.
   (B)   Subject to division (C) of this section, a copy of each assessment
shall be served upon the person affected thereby either by personal service, by
certified mail, or by a delivery service authorized under R.C. § 5703.056. With
the permission of the person affected by an assessment, the Tax Administrator
may deliver the assessment through alternative means as provided in this
section, including, but not limited to, delivery by secure electronic mail.
   (C)   (1)   (a)   If certified mail is returned because of an undeliverable
address, a Tax Administrator shall utilize reasonable means to ascertain a new
last known address, including the use of a change of address service offered by
the postal service or an authorized delivery service under R.C. § 5703.056. If
the Tax Administrator is unable to ascertain a new last known address, the
assessment shall be sent by ordinary mail and considered served. If the
ordinary mail is subsequently returned because of an undeliverable address, the
assessment remains appealable within 60 days after the assessment's postmark.
         (b)   Once the Tax Administrator or other village official, or the
designee of either, serves an assessment on the person to whom the assessment
is directed, the person may protest the ruling of that assessment by filing an
appeal with the Local Board of Tax Review within 60 days after the receipt of
service. The delivery of an assessment of the Tax Administrator under division
(C)(1)(a) of this section is prima facie evidence that delivery is complete and
that the assessment is served.
      (2)   If mailing of an assessment by a Tax Administrator by certified
mail is returned for some cause other than an undeliverable address, the Tax
Administrator shall resend the assessment by ordinary mail. The assessment
shall show the date the Tax Administrator sends the assessment and include the
following statement:
         “This assessment is deemed to be served on the addressee under
applicable law ten days from the date this assessment was mailed by the Tax
Administrator as shown on the assessment, and all periods within which an
appeal may be filed apply from and after that date.”
         Unless the mailing is returned because of an undeliverable address,
the mailing of that information is prima facie evidence that delivery of the
assessment was completed ten days after the Tax Administrator sent the
assessment by ordinary mail and that the assessment was served.
         If the ordinary mail is subsequently returned because of an
undeliverable address, the Tax Administrator shall proceed under division (C)
(1)(a) of this section. A person may challenge the presumption of delivery and
service under this division in accordance with division (D) of this section.
   (D)   (1)   A person disputing the presumption of delivery and service under
division (C) of this section bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of
the evidence that the address to which the assessment was sent by certified
mail was not an address with which the person was associated at the time the
Tax Administrator originally mailed the assessment. For the purposes of this
section, a person is associated with an address at the time the Tax
Administrator originally mailed the assessment if, at that time, the person was
residing, receiving legal documents, or conducting business at the address; or
if, before that time, the person had conducted business at the address and,
when the assessment was mailed, the person's agent or the person's affiliate
was conducting business at the address. For the purposes of this section, a
person's affiliate is any other person that, at the time the assessment was
mailed, owned or controlled at least 20%, as determined by voting rights, of
the addressee's business.
      (2)   If a person elects to appeal an assessment on the basis described
in division (D)(1) of this section, and if that assessment is subject to
collection and is not otherwise appealable, the person must do so within 60
days after the initial contact by the Tax Administrator or other village
official, or the designee of either, with the person. Nothing in this division
prevents the Tax Administrator or other official from entering into a
compromise with the person if the person does not actually file such an appeal
with the Local Board of Tax Review.
   (E)   Nothing in this section prohibits the Tax Administrator or the Tax
Administrator's designee from delivering an assessment by a Tax Administrator
by personal service.
   (F)   Collection actions taken upon any assessment being appealed under
division (C)(1)(b) of this section, including those on which a claim has been
delivered for collection shall be stayed upon the pendency of an appeal under
this section.
   (G)   Additional regulations as detailed in the Rules and Regulations shall
apply.
(Ord. 33-2015, passed 11-3-2015)
§ 39.15 ADMINISTRATION OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   As used in this section, CLAIM means a claim for an amount payable to
the village that arises pursuant to the village’s income tax imposed in
accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a Tax Administrator from doing
either of the following if such action is in the best interests of the
municipal corporation:
      (1)   Compromise a claim;
      (2)   Extend for a reasonable period the time for payment of a claim by
agreeing to accept monthly or other periodic payments.
   (C)   The Tax Administrator's rejection of a compromise or payment-over-time
agreement proposed by a person with respect to a claim shall not be appealable.
   (D)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a claim
shall be binding upon and shall be to the benefit of only the parties to the
compromise or agreement, and shall not eliminate or otherwise affect the
liability of any other person.
   (E)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a claim
shall be void if the taxpayer defaults under the compromise or agreement or if
the compromise or agreement was obtained by fraud or by misrepresentation of a
material fact. Any amount that was due before the compromise or agreement and
that is unpaid shall remain due, and any penalties or interest that would have
accrued in the absence of the compromise or agreement shall continue to accrue
and be due.
(Ord. 33-2015, passed 11-3-2015)
§ 39.16 TAX INFORMATION CONFIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Any information gained as a result of returns, investigations,
hearings, or verifications required or authorized by this chapter is
confidential, and no person shall access or disclose such information except in
accordance with a proper judicial order or in connection with the performance
of that person's official duties or the official business of the village as
authorized by this chapter. The Tax Administrator or a designee thereof may
furnish copies of returns filed or otherwise received under this chapter and
other related tax information to the Internal Revenue Service, the Tax
Commissioner, and tax administrators of other municipal corporations.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit the village from publishing or
disclosing statistics in a form that does not disclose information with respect
to particular taxpayers.
(Ord. 33-2015, passed 11-3-2015)
§ 39.17 FRAUD.
   No person shall knowingly make, present, aid, or assist in the preparation
or presentation of a false or fraudulent report, return, schedule, statement,
claim, or document authorized or required by the village ordinance or state law
to be filed with the Tax Administrator, or knowingly procure, counsel, or
advise the preparation or presentation of such report, return, schedule,
statement, claim, or document, or knowingly change, alter, or amend, or
knowingly procure, counsel or advise such change, alteration, or amendment of
the records upon which such report, return, schedule, statement, claim, or
document is based with intent to defraud the village or the Tax Administrator.
(Ord. 33-2015, passed 11-3-2015)
§ 39.18 INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   APPLICABLE LAW means this chapter, the resolutions, ordinances,
codes, directives, instructions, and rules adopted by the village provided they
impose or directly or indirectly address the levy, payment, remittance, or
filing requirements of the village.
      (2)   FEDERAL SHORT-TERM RATE means the rate of the average market yield
on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States with remaining
periods to maturity of three years or less, as determined under section 1274 of
the Internal Revenue Code, for July of the current year.
      (3)   INCOME TAX, ESTIMATED INCOME TAX, and WITHHOLDING TAX means any
income tax, estimated income tax, and withholding tax imposed by the village
pursuant to applicable law, including at any time before January 1, 2016.
      (4)   INTEREST RATE AS DESCRIBED IN DIVISION (A) OF THIS SECTION means
the federal short-term rate, rounded to the nearest whole number percent, plus
5%. The rate shall apply for the calendar year next following the July of the
year in which the federal short-term rate is determined in accordance with
division (A)(2) of this section.
      (5)   RETURN includes any tax return, report, reconciliation, schedule,
and other document required to be filed with the Tax Administrator or the
village by a taxpayer, employer, any agent of the employer, or any other payer
pursuant to applicable law, including at any time before January 1, 2016.
      (6)   UNPAID ESTIMATED INCOME TAX means estimated income tax due but not
paid by the date the tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (7)   UNPAID INCOME TAX means income tax due but not paid by the date the
income tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (8)   UNPAID WITHHOLDING TAX means withholding tax due but not paid by
the date the withholding tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (9)   WITHHOLDING TAX includes amounts an employer, any agent of an
employer, or any other payer did not withhold in whole or in part from an
employee's qualifying wages, but that, under applicable law, the employer,
agent, or other payer is required to withhold from an employee's qualifying
wages.
   (B)   (1)   This section applies to the following:
         (a)   Any return required to be filed under applicable law for taxable
years beginning on or after January 1, 2016;
         (b)   Income tax, estimated income tax, and withholding tax required
to be paid or remitted to the village on or after January 1, 2016.
      (2)   This section does not apply to returns required to be filed or
payments required to be made before January 1, 2016, regardless of the filing
or payment date. Returns required to be filed or payments required to be made
before January 1, 2016, but filed or paid after that date shall be subject to
the ordinances or rules and regulations, as adopted before January 1, 2016, of
the village to which the return is to be filed or the payment is to be made.
   (C)   Should any taxpayer, employer, agent of the employer, or other payer
for any reason fails, in whole or in part, to make timely and full payment or
remittance of income tax, estimated income tax, or withholding tax or to file
timely with the village any return required to be filed, the following
penalties and interest shall apply:
      (1)   Interest shall be imposed at the rate described in division (A) of
this section, per annum, on all unpaid income tax, unpaid estimated income tax,
and unpaid withholding tax.
      (2)   (a)   With respect to unpaid income tax and unpaid estimated income
tax, the village may impose a penalty equal to 15% of the amount not timely
paid.
         (b)   With respect to any unpaid withholding tax, the village may
impose a penalty equal to 50% of the amount not timely paid.
      (3)   With respect to returns other than estimated income tax returns,
the village may impose a penalty of $25 for each failure to timely file each
return, regardless of the liability shown thereon for each month, or any
fraction thereof, during which the return remains unfiled regardless of the
liability shown thereon. The penalty shall not exceed $150 for each failure.
   (D)   Nothing in this section requires the village to refund or credit any
penalty, amount of interest, charges, or additional fees that the village has
properly imposed or collected before January 1, 2016.
   (E)   Nothing in this section limits the authority of the village to abate
or partially abate penalties or interest imposed under this section when the
Tax Administrator determines, in the Tax Administrator's sole discretion, that
such abatement is appropriate.
   (F)   By the 31st day of October of each year the village shall publish the
rate described in division (A) of this section applicable to the next
succeeding calendar year.
   (G)   The village may impose on the taxpayer, employer, any agent of the
employer, or any other payer to the village post-judgment collection costs and
fees, including attorney's fees.
(Ord. 33-2015, passed 11-3-2015)
§ 39.19 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; VERIFICATION OF INFORMATION.
Authority.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall limit the authority of the Tax
Administrator to perform any of the following duties or functions, unless the
performance of such duties or functions is expressly limited by a provision of
the Ohio Revised Code:
      (1)   (a)   Exercise all powers whatsoever of a query nature as provided
by law, including, the right to inspect books, accounts, records, memorandums,
and federal and state income tax returns, to examine persons under oath, to
issue orders or subpoenas for the production of books, accounts, papers,
records, documents, and testimony, to take depositions, to apply to a court for
attachment proceedings as for contempt, to approve vouchers for the fees of
officers and witnesses, and to administer oaths.
         (b)   The powers referred to in this division of this section shall be
exercised by the Tax Administrator only in connection with the performance of
the duties respectively assigned to the Tax Administrator under the village’s
income tax ordinance;
      (2)   Appoint agents and prescribe their powers and duties;
      (3)   Confer and meet with officers of other municipal corporations and
states and officers of the United States on any matters pertaining to their
respective official duties as provided by law;
      (4)   Exercise the authority provided by law, including orders from
bankruptcy courts, relative to remitting or refunding taxes, including
penalties and interest thereon, for any reason overpaid. In addition, the Tax
Administrator may investigate any claim of overpayment and, if the Tax
Administrator finds that there has been an overpayment, make a written
statement of the Tax Administrator's findings, and approve and issue a refund
payable to the taxpayer, the taxpayer's assigns, or legal representative as
provided in this chapter;
      (5)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to consenting to
the compromise and settlement of tax claims;
      (6)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to the use of
alternative apportionment methods by taxpayers in accordance with §
39.03;
      (7)   (a)   Make all tax findings, determinations, computations, and
orders the Tax Administrator is by law authorized and required to make and,
pursuant to time limitations provided by law, on the Tax Administrator's own
motion, review, re-determine, or correct any tax findings, determinations,
computations, or orders the Tax Administrator has made.
         (b)   If an appeal has been filed with the Board of Tax Review or
other appropriate tribunal, the Tax Administrator shall not review, re-
determine, or correct any tax finding, determination, computation, or order
which the Tax Administrator has made, unless such appeal or application is
withdrawn by the appellant or applicant, is dismissed, or is otherwise final;
      (8)   Destroy any or all returns or other tax documents in the manner
authorized by law;
      (9)   Enter into an agreement with a taxpayer to simplify the withholding
obligations described in §
39.04.
Verification of Accuracy of Returns and Determination of Liability.
   (B)   (1)   A Tax Administrator, or any authorized agent or employee thereof
may examine the books, papers, records, and federal and state income tax
returns of any employer, taxpayer, or other person that is subject to, or that
the Tax Administrator believes is subject to, the provisions of this chapter
for the purpose of verifying the accuracy of any return made or, if no return
was filed, to ascertain the tax due under this chapter. Upon written request by
the Tax Administrator or a duly authorized agent or employee thereof, every
employer, taxpayer, or other person subject to this section is required to
furnish the opportunity for the Tax Administrator, authorized agent, or
employee to investigate and examine such books, papers, records, and federal
and state income tax returns at a reasonable time and place designated in the
request.
      (2)   The records and other documents of any taxpayer, employer, or other
person that is subject to, or that a Tax Administrator believes is subject to,
the provisions of this chapter shall be open to the Tax Administrator's
inspection during business hours and shall be preserved for a period of six
years following the end of the taxable year to which the records or documents
relate, unless the Tax Administrator, in writing, consents to their destruction
within that period, or by order requires that they be kept longer. The Tax
Administrator may require any person, by notice served on that person, to keep
such records as the Tax Administrator determines necessary to show whether or
not that person is liable, and the extent of such liability, for the income tax
levied by the village or for the withholding of such tax.
      (3)   The Tax Administrator may examine under oath any person that the
Tax Administrator reasonably believes has knowledge concerning any income that
was or would have been returned for taxation or any transaction tending to
affect such income. The Tax Administrator may, for this purpose, compel any
such person to attend a hearing or examination and to produce any books,
papers, records, and federal and state income tax returns in such person's
possession or control. The person may be assisted or represented by an
attorney, accountant, bookkeeper, or other tax practitioner at any such hearing
or examination. This division does not authorize the practice of law by a
person who is not an attorney.
      (4)   No person issued written notice by the Tax Administrator compelling
attendance at a hearing or examination or the production of books, papers,
records, or federal or state income tax returns under this section shall fail
to comply.
Identification Information.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits the Tax Administrator from
requiring any person filing a tax document with the Tax Administrator to
provide identifying information, which may include the person's Social Security
number, federal employer identification number, or other identification number
requested by the Tax Administrator. A person required by the Tax Administrator
to provide identifying information that has experienced any change with respect
to that information shall notify the Tax Administrator of the change before, or
upon, filing the next tax document requiring the identifying information.
      (2)   (a)   If the Tax Administrator makes a request for identifying
information and the Tax Administrator does not receive valid identifying
information within 30 days of making the request, nothing in this chapter
prohibits the Tax Administrator from imposing a penalty upon the person to whom
the request was directed pursuant to §
39.18, in addition to any applicable penalty described in §
39.99.
         (b)   If a person required by the Tax Administrator to provide
identifying information does not notify the Tax Administrator of a change with
respect to that information as required under division (C) of this section
within 30 days after filing the next tax document requiring such identifying
information, nothing in this chapter prohibits the Tax Administrator from
imposing a penalty pursuant to §
39.18.
         (c)   The penalties provided for under divisions (C)(2)(a) and (b) of
this section may be billed and imposed in the same manner as the tax or fee
with respect to which the identifying information is sought and are in addition
to any applicable criminal penalties described in §
39.99 for a violation of §
39.17 and any other penalties that may be imposed by the Tax Administrator by
law.
(Ord. 33-2015, passed 11-3-2015)
§ 39.20 REQUEST FOR OPINION OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   An OPINION OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR means an opinion issued under this
section with respect to prospective municipal income tax liability. It does not
include ordinary correspondence of the Tax Administrator.
   (B)   A taxpayer may submit a written request for an opinion of the Tax
Administrator in accordance with the Rules and Regulations.
   (C)   A taxpayer is not relieved of tax liability for any activity or
transaction related to a request for an opinion that contained any
misrepresentation or omission of one or more material facts.
   (D)   A Tax Administrator may refuse to offer an opinion on any request
received under this section. Such refusal is not subject to appeal.
   (E)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator binds the Tax Administrator only
with respect to the taxpayer for whom the opinion was prepared and does not
bind the Tax Administrator of any other municipal corporation.
   (F)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator issued under this section is not
subject to appeal.
(Ord. 33-2015, passed 11-3-2015)
§ 39.21 BOARD OF TAX REVIEW.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Tax Review shall consist of three members. Two
members shall be appointed by the legislative authority of the village, but
such appointees may not be employees, elected officials, or contractors with
the village at any time during their term or in the five years (which applies
only to these two members) immediately preceding the date of appointment. One
member shall be appointed by the Mayor of the village. This member may be an
employee of the village, but may not be the director of finance or equivalent
officer, or the Tax Administrator or other similar official or an employee
directly involved in municipal tax matters, or any direct subordinate thereof.
      (2)   The term for members of the Board of Tax Review of the village
shall be two years. There is no limit on the number of terms that a member may
serve if the member is reappointed by the legislative authority. The Board
member appointed by the Mayor of the village shall serve at the discretion of
the administrative official.
      (3)   Members of the Board of Tax Review appointed by the legislative
authority may be removed by the legislative authority by majority vote for
malfeasance, misfeasance, or nonfeasance in office. To remove such a member,
the legislative authority must give the member a copy of the charges against
the member and afford the member an opportunity to be publicly heard in person
or by counsel in the member's own defense upon not less than ten days' notice.
The decision by the legislative authority on the charges is final and not
appealable.
      (4)   A member of the Board of Tax Review who, for any reason, ceases to
meet the qualifications for the position prescribed by this section shall
resign immediately by operation of law.
      (5)   A vacancy in an unexpired term shall be filled in the same manner
as the original appointment within 60 days of when the vacancy was created. Any
member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of the
term for which the member's predecessor was appointed shall hold office for the
remainder of such term. No vacancy on the Board of Tax Review shall impair the
power and authority of the remaining members to exercise all the powers of the
Board of Tax Review.
      (6)   If a member is temporarily unable to serve on the Board of Tax
Review due to a conflict of interest, illness, absence, or similar reason, the
legislative authority or top administrative official that appointed the member
shall appoint another individual to temporarily serve on the Board of Tax
Review in the member's place. The appointment of such an individual shall be
subject to the same requirements and limitations as are applicable to the
appointment of the member temporarily unable to serve.
   (B)   Whenever a Tax Administrator issues an assessment, the Tax
Administrator shall notify the taxpayer in writing at the same time of the
taxpayer's right to appeal the assessment, the manner in which the taxpayer may
appeal the assessment, and the address to which the appeal should be directed.
   (C)   Any person who has been issued an assessment may appeal the assessment
to the Board of Tax Review by filing a request with the Board of Tax Review.
The request shall be in writing, shall specify the reason or reasons why the
assessment should be deemed incorrect or unlawful, and shall be filed within 60
days after the taxpayer receives the assessment.
   (D)   The Board of Tax Review shall schedule a hearing to be held within 60
days after receiving an appeal of an assessment under division (C) of this
section, unless the taxpayer requests additional time to prepare or waives a
hearing. If the taxpayer does not waive the hearing, the taxpayer may appear
before the Board of Tax Review and may be represented by an attorney at law,
certified public accountant, or other representative. The Board of Tax Review
may allow a hearing to be continued as jointly agreed to by the parties. In
such a case, the hearing must be completed within 120 days after the first day
of the hearing unless the parties agree otherwise.
   (E)   The Board of Tax Review may affirm, reverse, or modify the Tax
Administrator's assessment or any part of that assessment. The Board of Tax
Review shall issue a final determination on the appeal within 90 days after the
Board of Tax Review's final hearing on the appeal, and send a copy of its final
determination by ordinary mail to all of the parties to the appeal within 15
days after issuing the final determination. The taxpayer or the Tax
Administrator may appeal the Board of Tax Review's final determination as
provided in R.C. § 5717.011.
   (F)   The Board of Tax Review created pursuant to this section shall adopt
rules governing its procedures and shall keep a record of its transactions.
Such records are not public records available for inspection under R.C. §
149.43. Hearings requested by a taxpayer before a Board of Tax Review created
pursuant to this section are not meetings of a public body subject to R.C. §
121.22.
(Ord. 33-2015, passed 11-3-2015)
§ 39.22 AUTHORITY TO CREATE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits the village Fiscal Officer or a Tax
Administrator pursuant to authority granted to the Administrator by resolution
or ordinance, to adopt rules to administer an income tax imposed by the village
in accordance with this chapter. Such rules shall not conflict with or be
inconsistent with any provision of this chapter. Taxpayers are hereby required
to comply not only with the requirements of this chapter, but also to comply
with the Rules and Regulations.
   (B)   All rules adopted under this section shall be published and posted on
the internet.
(Ord. 33-2015, passed 11-3-2015)
§ 39.23 RENTALS AND LEASED PROPERTY.
   (A)   All property owners of real property located in the village, who rent
or otherwise lease the same, or any part thereof, to any person for residential
dwelling purposes, including apartments, rooms and other rental accommodations,
during any calendar year, or part thereof, commencing with the effective date
of this section, shall file with the Tax Administrator on or before the January
31 first following such calendar year a written report disclosing the name,
address and also telephone number, if available, of each tenant known to have
occupied on December 31 during such calendar year such apartment, room or other
residential dwelling rental property.
   (B)   The Tax Administrator may order the appearance before him, or his duly
authorized agent, of any person whom he believes to have any knowledge of the
name, address and telephone number of any tenant of residential rental real
property in the village. The Tax Administrator, or his duly authorized agent,
is authorized to examine any person, under oath, concerning the name, address
and telephone number of any tenant of residential real property located in the
village. The Tax Administrator, or his duly authorized agent, may compel the
production of papers and records and the attendance of all personal before him,
whether as parties or witnesses, whenever he believes such person has knowledge
of the name, address and telephone number of any tenant of residential real
property in the village.
   (C)   Any property owner or person that violates one or more of the
following shall be subject to §
39.99:
      (1)   Fails, refuses or neglects to timely file a written report required
by division (A) of this section;
      (2)   Makes an incomplete or intentionally false written report required
by division (A) of this section;
      (3)   Fails to appear before the Tax Administrator or any duly authorized
agent and to produce and disclose any tenant information pursuant to any order
or subpoena of the Tax Administrator as authorized in this section; or
      (4)   Fails to comply with the provisions of this section or any order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator.
(Ord. 33-2015, passed 11-3-2015)
§ 39.24 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   This chapter shall not apply to any person, firm or corporation, or to any
property as to whom or which it is beyond the power of Council to impose the
tax herein provided for. Any sentence, clause, section or part of this chapter
or any tax against or exception granted any individual or any of the several
groups of persons, or forms of income specified herein if found to be
unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such unconstitutionality, illegality or
invalidity shall affect only such clause, sentence, section or part of this
chapter and shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions,
sentences, clauses, sections or other parts of this chapter. It is hereby
declared to be the intention of Council that this would have been adopted had
such unconstitutional, illegal or invalid sentence or part hereof, not been
included therein.
(Ord. 33-2015, passed 11-3-2015)
§ 39.25 COLLECTION OF TAX AFTER TERMINATION OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   This chapter shall continue effective insofar as the levy of taxes is
concerned until repealed, and insofar as the collection of taxes levied
hereunder and actions or proceedings for collecting any tax so levied or
enforcing any provisions of this chapter are concerned, it shall continue
effective until all of said taxes levied hereunder in the aforesaid periods are
fully paid and any and all suits and prosecutions for the collection of said
taxes or for the punishment of violations of this chapter shall have been fully
terminated, subject to the limitations contained in §
39.12 and §
39.99.
   (B)   Annual returns due for all or any part of the last effective year of
this chapter shall be due on the date provided in §§
39.04 and
39.05 as though the same were continuing.
(Ord. 33-2015, passed 11-3-2015)
§ 39.26 RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR INCOME TAX, UNDER AUTHORITY OF ORDINANCE 32-
72, ADOPTED.
   The village's rules and regulations under authority of Ordinance 32-72 are
hereby adopted by reference as if set out in full herein. Copies are available
through village offices.
(Ord. 33-2015, passed 11-3-2015)
§ 39.27 OPT-IN FOR FILING THROUGH THE OHIO BUSINESS GATEWAY FOR BUSINESSES.
   To the extent required by House Bill 49 passed by the Ohio Legislature and
signed by the governor, all businesses that would ordinarily file with the
village shall be allowed to file their business income filings through the Ohio
Business Gateway if such filings specifically reference the Village of
Bellville to the full appropriate extent. In addition, any business that has
made such filings prior to the time this provision takes effect shall be given
credit for the same under the same condition.
(Ord. 6-2018, passed 3-20-2018)
§ 39.99 VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES.
   (A)   Whoever violates §§
39.04,
39.16(A), or
39.17 by failing to remit village income taxes deducted and withheld from an
employee, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be
subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment for a term of up to
six months, or both. If the individual that commits the violation is an
employee, or official, of the village, the individual is subject to discharge
from employment or dismissal from office.
   (B)   As authorized by R.C. § 718.99, any person who discloses information
received from the Internal Revenue Service in violation of §
39.16(A) shall be guilty of a felony of the fifth degree and shall be subject
to a fine of not more than $5,000 plus the costs of prosecution, or
imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years, or both. If the individual
that commits the violation is an employee, or official, of the village, the
individual is subject to discharge from employment or dismissal from office.
   (C)   Each instance of access or disclosure in violation of §
39.16(A) constitutes a separate offense.
   (D)   If not otherwise specified herein, no person shall:
      (1)   Fail, neglect or refuse to make any return or declaration required
by this chapter;
      (2)   File any incomplete or false return;
      (3)   Fail, neglect or refuse to pay the tax, penalties or interest
imposed by this chapter;
      (4)   Refuse to permit the Tax Administrator or any duly authorized agent
or employee to examine his books, records, papers and federal and state income
tax returns relating to the income or net profits of a taxpayer;
      (5)   Fail to appear before the Tax Administrator and to produce his
books, records, papers or federal and state income tax returns relating to the
income or net profits of a taxpayer upon order or subpoena of the Tax
Administrator;
      (6)   Refuse to disclose to the Tax Administrator any information with
respect to the income or net profits of a taxpayer;
      (7)   Fail to comply with the provisions of this chapter or any order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator authorized hereby;
      (8)   Give to an employer false information as to his true name, correct
Social Security number, and residence address, or fail to promptly notify an
employer of any change in residence address and date thereof;
      (9)   Attempt to do anything whatsoever to avoid the payment of the whole
or any part of the tax, penalties or interest imposed by this chapter.
   (E)   Any person who violates any of the provisions in division (D) of this
section shall be subject to the penalties provided for in §
10.99(A) of this Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 33-2015, passed 11-3-2015)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
      
51.   WATER AND SEWER
      
52.   STORM WATER UTILITY
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
Disposal and Collection
   
50.01   Disposal of residential trash and garbage in public waste containers
   
50.02   County Garbage and Refuse Disposal District
   
50.03   Approving the County Solid Waste Management Plan
Licensing of Refuse Collectors
   
50.15   License required
   
50.16   Inspections; license renewal
   
50.17   Vehicles to be covered
   
50.18   Lawful sites
   
50.19   Parking of vehicles within the village
 
   
50.99   Penalty
DISPOSAL AND COLLECTION
§ 50.01 DISPOSAL OF RESIDENTIAL TRASH AND GARBAGE IN PUBLIC WASTE CONTAINERS.
   (A)   No person shall place his or her personal residential trash or garbage
in any public curbside waste container as provided by the village.
   (B)   No person shall place his or her personal residential trash or garbage
in any specifically marked recycling collection container, whether for a public
or private purpose.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section, PERSONAL RESIDENTIAL TRASH OR
GARBAGE shall include but not be limited to food wastes, disposable diapers,
paper products except for newspapers if placed in a specifically marked
collection container, magazines, and yard wastes.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(Ord. 25-91, passed 9-3-1991) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.02 COUNTY GARBAGE AND REFUSE DISPOSAL DISTRICT.
   The Council of the village hereby authorizes all territory within the
village to be included within the County Garbage and Refuse Disposal District
established by the Board of County Commissioners.
(Ord. 38-87, passed 8-18-1987)
§ 50.03 APPROVING THE COUNTY SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   The amended Solid Waste Management Plan approved by the Richland County
Solid Waste Management Authority Board of Directors in 2020 is hereby approved
in the form submitted to this legislative authority and presently on file with
the Fiscal Officer of this legislative authority.
(Ord. 26-91, passed 9-3-1991; Ord. 33-96, passed 9-3-1996; Res. 27-00, passed
10-2-2000; Res. 13-07, passed 4-2-2007; Res. 2013-29, passed 10-1-2013; Res.
18-2020, passed 5-5-2020)
LICENSING OF REFUSE COLLECTORS
§ 50.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall be engaged in the business of
collecting, hauling, or transporting garbage, trash, junk, or rubbish within
this village without first obtaining a license to do so from the Chief of
Police for each vehicle engaged in the business.
(Ord. 17-87, passed 4-21-1987) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.16 INSPECTIONS; LICENSE RENEWAL.
   This license shall be issued annually and only after the equipment/vehicles/
trucks used in the collecting, removing, hauling, or transporting of garbage,
trash, junk, or rubbish by the person, firm, or corporation engaged in that
business has been inspected and approved by the Chief of Police. Licenses shall
be renewed annually in the month of June and inspections shall be conducted
annually prior to the issuance of each new license. A fee of $10 shall be
collected for each license issued.
(Ord. 17-87, passed 4-21-1987)
§ 50.17 VEHICLES TO BE COVERED.
   Every person, firm, or corporation to whom a license has been granted under
this section shall collect and transport rubbish in trucks or vehicles with
metal, wood, or tarpaulin covers in such a manner as to preclude the scattering
of rubbish on the streets or exposing of the same to public view.
(Ord. 17-87, passed 4-21-1987)
§ 50.18 LAWFUL SITES.
   All garbage and rubbish collected in this village shall be conveyed only to
a sanitary landfill or other lawful dumping site.
(Ord. 17-87, passed 4-21-1987)
§ 50.19 PARKING OF VEHICLES WITHIN THE VILLAGE.
   All trucks, vehicles and related equipment/containers containing garbage
shall not be parked or stored within the village for period of over two hours
except and until the licensee notifies the Chief of Police, who shall make an
inspection of the parking or storage location to determine there will be no
health or public nuisance caused thereby.
(Ord. 17-87, passed 4-21-1987)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
50.15 through
50.19 is guilty of a minor misdemeanor for a first offense and a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree for a second or subsequent offense.
(Ord. 17-87, passed 4-21-1987)
CHAPTER 51: WATER AND SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Water and sanitary sewer bylaws adopted
   
51.002   Construction of new water wells prohibited
Sewer Use
   
51.015   Definitions
   
51.016   Prohibited discharges
   
51.017   Use and requirements of public sewers
   
51.018   Control of prohibited wastes
   
51.019   Industrial wastewater monitoring and reporting
Water and Sanitary Sewer Bylaws
   
51.030   Control of system
   
51.031   Connection to water and sewer lines required
   
51.032   Water and sewer consumption charges
   
51.033   Water tap fees
   
51.034   Water supply and sewer system
   
51.035   Maintenance of water and sewer connections
   
51.036   Restrictions on water usage
   
51.037   Water service line repair
   
51.038   Meter requirements
   
51.039   Maintenance of meters
   
51.040   Secondary or “deduct” meters
   
51.041   Backflow contamination prevention
   
51.0411   Booster pumps
   
51.042   Responsibility for payment of accounts
   
51.043   Voluntary disconnection of service
   
51.044   Termination of accounts for nonpayment
   
51.045   Appeals to public utility committee
   
51.046   Fees for water shut-offs
   
51.047   Reading of meters
   
51.048   Service to nonresidents
   
51.049   Connection permits
   
51.050   Private sanitary sewer systems prohibited
   
51.051   Disposition of sanitary sewage
   
51.052   Sewer system design
   
51.053   Peak design flow
   
51.054   Sanitary sewer mains
   
51.055   Sanitary sewer tap fees
   
51.056   Service connections
   
51.0561   Service line shut-off valves
   
51.057   Bedding; line, grade and location
   
51.058   Tapping existing lines
   
51.059   Service connections at manholes
   
51.060   Backfill requirements
   
51.061   Street openings
   
51.062   Illegal connections
   
51.063   Corrective order and expenses therefor
   
51.064   Waters and wastes not to be discharged
   
51.065   Control manhole
   
51.066   Definitions
Enforcement
   
51.080   Enforcement procedures
Terms and Conditions for Selling Surplus Water
   
51.095   Authorization to sell; rate
   
51.096   Location of taps
   
51.097   Limited responsibility of village
   
51.098   No contract for sale of surplus water
   
51.099   Definition
 
   
51.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 WATER AND SANITARY SEWER BYLAWS ADOPTED.
   (A)   The water and sanitary sewer bylaws adopted by the Village
Administrator in August 16, 2010 are confirmed and have the same validity as
ordinance.
   (B)   They are set out in §
51.030 to
51.066, below.
(Ord. 2010-84, passed 8-16-2010)
§ 51.002 CONSTRUCTION OF NEW WATER WELLS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall dig, drill, construct, or install a water well
for any purpose whatsoever on any lot or parcel when a village water line is
available within 100 feet of a lot or parcel boundary and where the water line
is capable of providing sufficient water service for the lot’s or parcel’s
intended use.
      (2)   The Water Superintendent shall determine whether adequate water
service can be consistently provided to the lot or parcel.
   (B)   No person whose lot or parcel boundary is greater than 100 feet from a
village water line or, if nearer, sufficient water service cannot be obtained
shall drill, dig, construct, or install a water well without first making
application for and obtaining a water well construction permit as required by
the State Department of Health or County Health Department and obtaining a
permit from the Water Superintendent.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) or (B) above shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(Ord. 89-16, passed 5-2-1989) Penalty, see §
51.999
SEWER USE
§ 51.015 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of §§
51.015 through
51.019 and 51.080, the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures in
five days at 20ºC, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from the soil, waste, and other drainage
pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
which begins five feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of the building
wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also called HOUSE CONNECTION.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
chemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures,
expressed in milligrams per liter.
   COMBINED SEWER.  A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   COMMERCIAL UNIT. A building or part of a building used by one commercial,
private, or public enterprise for uses other than as a dwelling.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. BOD, suspended solids, pH, and fecal coliform bacteria
plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES permit if the publicly owned
treatment works was designed to treat the pollutant, and in fact does remove
the pollutants to a substantial degree. Examples of these additional pollutants
may include: COD; total organic carbon; phosphorous and phosphorous compounds;
nitrogen and nitrogen compounds; fats, oils, and greases of animal or vegetable
origin except as prohibited under §
51.016.
   COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning,
cooling, or refrigeration, during which the only pollutant added to the water
is heat.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE.  The charge levied on users to make principal and
interest payments required for the amortization of the cost of the wastewater
collection and treatment facilities.
   DISCHARGE UNIT. Any residence, commercial establishment, industry, or
private or public facility generating, accumulating, and/or otherwise
discharging liquid waste either directly or ultimately into any of the water
systems of the village.
   DWELLING UNIT. A building or part of a building used by one family,
exclusively, as a place of abode.
   ENGINEER. The consulting engineer designated by the Council of the village.
   FEDERAL ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972 and
1977, Pub. L. No. 92-500, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., and any amendments
thereto; as well as any guidelines, limitations, and standards promulgated by
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency pursuant to the Act.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and serving of food.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant which is not a compatible pollutant as
defined above in this section.
   INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY. Recovery by the village from the industrial users
of a treatment works of the grant amount allocable to the treatment of wastes
from the users pursuant to Section 204(b) of Title II, Federal Water Pollution
Control Act, Amendments of 1972 (Pub. L. No. 92-500), being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251
et seq., and amendments thereto.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. 
      (1)   Any nongovernmental, nonresidential user of a publicly owned
treatment works which discharges more than the equivalent of 25,000 gallons per
day (gpd) of sanitary wastes and which is identified in the Standard Industrial
Classification Manual, 1972, Office of Management and Budget, as amended and
supplemented under one of the following divisions:
 
Division A. Agriculture, Forestry, and Fishing
Division B. Mining
Division D. Manufacturing
Division E. Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas, and Sanitary
            Services
Division I. Services
 
         (a)   In determining the amount of a user’s discharge for purposes of
industrial cost recovery, the grantee may exclude domestic wastes or discharges
from sanitary conveniences.
         (b)   After applying the sanitary waste exclusion in division (1)(a)
of this definition (if the grantee chooses to do so), discharges in the
Divisions tabulated under division (1) above that have a volume exceeding
25,000 gpd or the weight of biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) or suspended solids
(SS) equivalent to that weight found in 25,000 gpd of sanitary waste are
considered INDUSTRIAL USERS. Sanitary wastes, for purposes of this calculation
of equivalency, are the wastes discharged from residential users. The strength
of residential discharges is herein defined as BOD5 less than or equal to 300
mg per liter and suspended solids less than or equal to 300 mg per liter.
      (2)   Any nongovernmental user of a publicly owned treatment works which
discharges wastewater to the treatment works which contains toxic pollutants or
poisonous solids, liquids, or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, to contaminate the sludge of any municipal
systems, or to injure or to interfere with any sewage treatment process, or
which constitutes a hazard to humans or animals, creates a public nuisance,
creates any hazard in or has an adverse effect on the waters receiving any
discharge from the treatment works.
      (3)   All commercial users of an individual system constructed with grant
assistance under Section 201(h) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1281, and this
division.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater from industrial processes, trade, or
business as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industrial user of the publicly owned
treatment works that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more than average work day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
      (3)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under Section 307(a) of the Federal Act, being 33 U.S.C. §
1317(a); or
      (4)   Is found by the permit issuance authority in connection with the
issuance of an NPDES permit to the publicly owned treatment works receiving the
waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with other
contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
   MAY. The action referred to is permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or
ground water,
   NPDES PERMIT. The National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS.  All costs associated with the operation
and maintenance of wastewater collection and treatment facilities as well as
costs associated with periodic equipment replacement necessary for maintaining
capacity and performance of the wastewater collection and treatment facilities.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   pH. The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams, per liter of solution.
Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of 7.0 and a hydrogen ion
concentration of 10-7 .
   POLLUTANT. Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, wastewater,
garbage, wastewater sludge, munition, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock,
sand, cellar dirt, and industrial, municipal, and agricultural waste discharged
into the water.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction
into publicly owned wastewater treatment facilities.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (0.127 centimeter) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer controlled by a government agency or public
utility.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of
the treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which the
works were designed and constructed. The term “operation and maintenance”
includes REPLACEMENT.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together
with minor quantities of ground, storm, and surface waters that are not
admitted intentionally.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE. The charge levied on users for capital cost
amortization (debt service charges) and for operation and maintenance costs
(user charges). This SEWER SERVICE CHARGE includes debt service charges and
user charges.
   SHALL. The action referred to is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which, in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
or flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STORM DRAIN (sometimes termed STORM SEWER). A drain or sewer for conveying
water, groundwater, subsurface water, or unpolluted water from any source.
   STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or immediately following any form of
natural precipitation and resulting therefrom. Water originating from
precipitation which is captured in roof drains and downspouts, footer and
foundation tiles, ground drainage tiles and catch basins and which does not
undergo any use or contamination prior to disposal.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Water Pollution Control Operator of the village or his
or her authorized representative.
   SURCHARGE STATEMENT.  Sewer users outside the corporate limits will be
required to pay the sewer service charges plus an additional amount to equalize
capital investments and those costs which may be incurred in the future by
village residents through taxes and assessments levied only in the village. The
amount of the surcharge shall be determined at the time of the connection to
the village system.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface
of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater, or other liquids, and that is
removable by laboratory filtering, as prescribed in Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater and referred to as non-filterable residue.
   TOXIC POLLUTANTS. Include but are not necessarily limited to aldrin-
dieldrin, benzidine, cadmium, cyanide, DDT-endrin, mercury, polychlorinated
biphenyls (PCBs) and toxaphene. Pollutants included as “toxic” shall be those
promulgated as such by the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER.  Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USER CHARGE.  The charge levied on the users of the treatment works for the
cost and operation and maintenance of the works, pursuant to Section 204(b) of
Title II of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972 (Pub. L. No. 92-
500), being 33 U.S.C. § 1284(b), and amendments thereto.
   WASTEWATER (SANITARY WATER). The spent water of a community. From the
standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried
wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions, together with any groundwater, surface water, and storm water
that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of
the effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge. Sometimes used us
synonymous with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or WATER
POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT.
(Ord. 15-79, passed 4-2-1979)
§ 51.016 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers or treatment works:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzine, naptha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas; or
      (2)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 6.0 or having any other
corrosive property capable of or causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the wastewater works.
   (B)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of a size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interferences with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities, such as but not limited to
ashes, bones, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure,
hair and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and the
like, either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (C)   The following described substances, materials, waters, or waste shall
be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or quantities
which will not harm either the sewers, wastewater treatment process or
equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or will not
otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance. The
Superintendent may set limitations lower than the limitations established in
the regulations below if in his or her opinion these more severe limitations
are necessary to meet the above objectives. Deliberate dilution with unpolluted
water to meet the concentrations established in the regulations below shall not
be acceptable. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability, the
Superintendent will give consideration to such facts as the quantity of subject
waste in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the wastewater treatment plant, degree of treatability of the
waste in the wastewater treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The
limitations or restrictions on materials or characteristics of waste or
wastewater discharged to the sanitary sewers which shall not be violated
without approval of the Superintendent are as follows:
      (1)   Wastewater having a temperature higher than 150ºF;
      (2)   Wastewater containing more than 50 milligrams per liter of
petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils, product of mineral oil origin, or
floatable oils, fat, wax, or grease;
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. Garbage grinders
may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, hotels, institutions,
restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments, or similar places where
garbage originates from the preparation of food in kitchens for the purpose of
consumption on the premises or when served by caterers;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing solids, liquids, or gases in
sufficient quantity either singly or by interaction with other wastes to injure
or interfere with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to
humans or animals, waters of the wastewater treatment plant, including but not
limited to cyanides, hexavalent chromium, copper, zinc, cadmium, nickel, and
phenols in the waste as discharged to the public sewer.
         (a)   The following concentrations shall not be exceeded in industrial
wastes discharged to the public sewers: total cyanide (CN), 0.5 milligrams per
liter (mg/l); hexavalent chromium, 1.0 mg/l; copper, 1.0 mg/l; zinc, 1.0 mg/l;
cadmium, 0.2 mg/l; nickel, 2.0 mg/l; phenols, 0.2 mg/l; lead, 0.5 mg/l;
mercury, 0.01 mg/l; silver, 0.2 mg/l.
         (b)   These maximum concentrations may be changed as necessary by the
Superintendent or state regulatory agencies based on new information concerning
inhibitory substances or to protect treatment plant processes. Industrial
dischargers covered by federal pretreatment requirements shall meet those
limitations specified under the effluent guidelines published under 33 U.S.C.
§§ 1311(b) and 1317(b) of the Federal Act or the above concentrations,
whichever is more stringent.
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing odor-producing substances exceeding
limits which may be established by the Superintendent or local or state
regulatory agencies;
      (6)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of a half-life or concentration
that may exceed limits in compliance with applicable state or federal
regulations;
      (7)   Quantities of flow, concentrations, or both which constitute a
“slug” as defined in §
51.015;
      (8)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amenable only to such a degree that the wastewater treatment plant effluent
cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters; or substances that would result in a
violation of the NPDES permit;
      (9)   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or
wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended
solids which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition
deleterious to structures and treatment processes; and
      (10)   Any wastes with objectionable color not removable by the treatment
process.
(Ord. 15-79, passed 4-2-1979)
§ 51.017 USE AND REQUIREMENTS OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   Prohibition on unpolluted water. No person shall discharge or cause to
be discharged any (unpolluted) surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, storm
water, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling water, or unpolluted
industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer. Any existing roof drain
connections to sanitary or combined sewers shall be connected into an available
storm sewer or shall be disconnected above ground in an appropriate manner
approved by the Village Council. Discharges from roof drains emptying onto the
ground surface shall be at least three feet from adjacent property line and
shall in no way be directed to flood or otherwise cause damage to adjoining
property. The owner of all buildings situated within the village is required at
his or her expense to disconnect all existing roof drains from sanitary and
combined sewers in accordance with the provisions of this section within 180
days after the date of official notice to do so. Discharge units connecting to
a village sanitary sewer or combination sewer shall be free of all storm water.
It is prohibited that any new construction of discharge units shall have any
storm water connections of roof drains, footer and foundation tiles, or any
other connection to a sanitary sewer or combination sewer.
   (B)   Allowable discharge of unpolluted water. Storm water and all other
unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to those sewers that are specifically
designated as acceptable combined sewers or storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the Village Council and other regulatory agencies.
   (C)   Wastewater discharge. Discharge units having sanitary water shall be
connected to a village sanitary sewer, if one is within 200 feet of any of the
lot or property lines of that discharge unit. If a sanitary sewer is not
available within 200 feet of the lot or property line, the discharge unit shall
be connected to a combined sewer. In either event, the connection shall be
water-tight from the discharge unit to the sewer.
   (D)   New connections. No new connections or alterations to existing
connections shall be made to any of the sewer systems of the village without
prior permission of the Village Council or its authorized representative, nor
shall the village allow any new connections unless there is sufficient
downstream sewer capacity and sufficient treatment capacity.
   (E)   Fees. Fees for connection to village sewers shall be in accordance
with a schedule adopted by the Village Council.
   (F)   Discharge of liquid waste; approved connections required. No person,
corporation, or his or her agent or employee shall discharge any sewage, septic
tank waste, wastewater, or other liquid waste into the village’s wastewater
system except through village-approved residential, commercial, or industrial
wastewater system connections, and only upon prior village approval and prior
registration for billing with the Village Administrator.
(Ord. 15-79, passed 4-2-1979; Ord. 23-97, passed 6-2-1997) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.018 CONTROL OF PROHIBITED WASTES.
   (A)   Regulatory actions.  
      (1)   Prohibited discharges. If wastewaters containing any substance
described in §
51.016 are discharged or proposed to be discharged into the sewer system of the
village or to any sewer system tributary thereto, the Superintendent or Village
Solicitor may take any action necessary to:
         (a)   Prohibit the discharge of the wastewater;
         (b)   Require a discharger to demonstrate that in-plant modifications
will control, reduce, or eliminate the discharge of such substances in
conformity with this subchapter. This may include control over the quantities
and rates of discharge;
         (c)   Require pretreatment, including storage facilities, or flow
equalization necessary to reduce or eliminate the objectionable characteristics
or substances so that the discharge will not violate these rules and
regulations;
         (d)   Require the person making, causing, or allowing the discharge to
pay any additional cost or expense incurred by the village for handling and
treating excess loads imposed on the treatment system; or
         (e)   Take any other remedial action as may be deemed to be desirable
or necessary to achieve the purpose of this subchapter.
      (2)   Minimum standards. All industrial wastes discharged to the public
sewers by major contributing industries shall as a minimum meet the national
pretreatment standards or best practical control technology currently available
for incompatible pollutants as published in the latest Federal Regulations,
unless the village is committed, in its NPDES permit, to remove a specified
percentage of the incompatible pollutant. In those instances the applicable
pretreatment standards may be correspondingly reduced to levels determined by
the engineer, his or her duly authorised representative, or state regulatory
agencies.
      (3)   Special conditions. No statement contained in this section shall be
construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the
village and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual
strength or character may be accepted by the village for treatment to possible
payment therefor by the industrial concern for subsequent treatment. Any
industrial concern may appeal to the Council and determination made by the
engineer in the enforcement of this subchapter.
      (4)   Written report/plan. After passage of this subchapter, each person
whose operation entails the discharge of industrial wastes to a public sever
shall prepare and file with the engineer a written statement setting forth the
nature of the operation contemplated or presently carried on, the amount and
source of water required for use, the proposed point of discharge of the wastes
into the wastewater collection system of the village, subject to possible
payment therefor by the industrial concern for subsequent treatment, the
estimated amount to be so discharged, and a fair statement setting forth the
expected bacterial, physical, chemical, and other known characteristics of the
wastes. Within a reasonable time of receipt of this statement, it shall be the
duty of the village to make an order stating the minimum restrictions that in
the judgment of the engineer may be necessary to any industrial concern may
appeal to the Council and determination made by the engineer in the enforcement
of this subchapter adequately guard against unlawful uses of the village’s
wastewater system.
   (B)   Submission of plans.  
      (1)   Pretreatment plans. Where pretreatment or equalization of
wastewater flows prior to discharge into any part of the wastewater treatment
system is required, plans, specifications, other pertinent data or information,
including installation of facilities and equipment relating to the pretreatment
or flow-control facilities shall be subject to the review and approval of the
Superintendent. This approval shall not exempt the discharge or the facilities
from compliance with any applicable code, ordinance, rule, regulation, or order
of any governmental authority. Any subsequent alterations or additions to the
pretreatment or flow-control facilities shall not be made without due notice to
and prior approval of the Superintendent.
      (2)   Grease and oil interceptors. For grease, oil, and inorganic
material such as sand, grit, and the like, interceptors shall be provided when
in the opinion of the engineer, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, as specified in
division (B)(1) above, or any flammable wastes, sand, or other harmful
ingredients, except that the interceptors shall not be required for private
living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and
capacity approved by the engineer, and shall be located as to be readily and
easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining of these
interceptors, the owner(s) shall be responsible for the proper removal and
disposal by appropriate means of the captured material and shall maintain
records of the dates and means of disposal which are subject to review by the
Superintendent. Any removal and hauling of the collected materials not
performed by the owner(s) personnel must be performed by currently licensed
waste disposal firms.
   (C)   Pretreatment facilities operations. If pretreatment of control of
waste flows is required, the facilities shall be continuously maintained in
good working order and operated as effectively and efficiently as possible by
the owner or operator at his or her own cost and expense, subject to the
requirements of these rules and regulations and all other applicable codes,
ordinances, and laws.
   (D)   Admission to property. Whenever it shall be necessary for the purposes
of these rules and regulations, the Superintendent, upon the presentation of
credentials, may enter upon any property or premises at reasonable times for
the purpose of copying any records required to be kept under the provisions of
this chapter; inspecting any monitoring equipment or method; and sampling any
discharge of wastewater to the treatment works. The Superintendent may enter
upon the property at any hour under emergency circumstances.
   (E)   Protection from accidental discharge. Each industrial user shall
provide protection from accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other
wastes regulated by this subchapter. Facilities to prevent accidental discharge
of prohibited materials shall be provided and maintained at the owner’s or
operator’s own cost and expense. Detailed plans showing facilities and
operating procedures to provide this protection shall be submitted to the
Superintendent for review, and shall be approved by him or her before
construction of the facility. Review and approval of the plans and operating
procedures shall not relieve the industrial user from the responsibility to
modify his or her facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this
chapter.
   (F)   Reporting of accidental discharge. If, for any reason, a facility does
not comply with or will be unable to comply with any prohibition or limitations
in this chapter, the facility responsible for the discharge shall immediately
notify the Superintendent so that corrective action may be taken to protect the
treatment system. In addition, a written report addressed to the Superintendent
detailing the date, time, and cause of the accidental discharge, the quantity
and characteristics of the discharge, and corrective action taken to prevent
future discharges, shall be filed by the responsible industrial facility within
five days of the occurrence of the noncomplying discharge.
(Ord. 15-79, passed 4-2-1979)
§ 51.019 INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER MONITORING AND REPORTING.
   (A)   Discharge reports.
      (1)   Every significant industrial user shall file a periodic discharge
report at intervals designated by the Superintendent. The Superintendent may
require any other industrial users discharging or proposing to discharge into
the treatment system to file these periodic reports.
      (2)   The discharge report shall include but, in the discretion of the
Superintendent, shall not be limited to nature of process, volume, rates of
flow, mass emission rate, production quantities, hours of operation,
concentrations of controlled pollutants or other information which relates to
the generation of waste. The reports may also include the chemical constituents
and quantity of liquid materials stored on-site even though they are not
normally discharged. In addition to discharge reports, the Superintendent may
require information in the form of self-monitoring reports.
   (B)   Records and monitoring.
      (1)   All industrial users who discharge or propose to discharge
wastewaters to the wastewater treatment system shall maintain records of
production and related factors, effluent flows, and pollutant amounts or
concentrations as are necessary to demonstrate compliance with the requirements
of this subchapter and any applicable state or federal pretreatment standards
or requirements.
      (2)   These records shall be made available upon request by the
Superintendent. All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards
shall be made available to officials of the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency upon demand. A summary of the data indicating the industrial user’s
compliance with this subchapter shall be prepared as requested and submitted to
the Superintendent.
      (3)   The owner or operator of any premises or facility discharging
industrial wastes into the system shall install at his or her own cost and
expense suitable control manholes or access points, and monitoring equipment to
facilitate the accurate observation, sampling, and measurement of wastes. This
equipment shall be maintained in proper working order and kept safe and
accessible at all times. Sampling methods, location, times, durations, and
frequencies are to be determined on an individual basis subject to approval by
the Superintendent.
      (4)   Wastewater volume determination. The volume of flow used for
computing industrial waste surcharges shall be the metered water consumption of
the person as shown in the records of water meter readings maintained by the
village except as herein provided in this division (B)(4).
         (a)   If the person discharging industrial wastes into the public
sewers procures any part, or all, of this water from sources other than the
village water system, all or part of which is discharged into the public sewer,
the person shall install and maintain at his or her expense water meters of a
type approved by the engineer for the purpose of determining the volume of
water obtained from those other sources.
         (b)   The person discharging industrial wastes into the public sewers
may install and maintain at his or her expense metering devices for determining
the volume of waste being discharged to the public sewer, from which the
industrial waste surcharge would be computed. The measuring devices shall be of
a type acceptable to the engineer.
         (c)   The engineer may require the installation of devices for
measuring the volume of waste discharged if these volumes cannot otherwise be
determined from the metered water consumption records. Any metering device for
determining the volume of waste discharged to the public sewer shall be
installed, owned, and maintained by the person responsible for its discharge.
Following approval and installation, the meters may not be removed without the
consent of the engineer.
      (5)   The monitoring equipment shall be located and maintained on the
industrial user’s premises outside of the building. When such a location would
be impractical or cause undue hardship on the user, the Superintendent may
allow the facility to be constructed in the public sidewalk area, with the
approval of the public agency having jurisdiction over the street or sidewalk,
and located so that it will not be obstructed by public utilities, landscaping,
or parked vehicles.
      (6)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the monitoring
facilities shall be constructed in accordance with the Superintendent’s
requirements and all applicable construction standards and specifications.
   (C)   Inspection, sampling, and analysis.
      (1)   Compliance determination. Compliance determinations with respect to
§
51.016 prohibitions and limitations may be made on the basis of either
instantaneous grab samples or composite samples of wastewater. Composite
samples may be taken over a 24-hour period, or over a longer or shorter time
span, as determined necessary by the Superintendent to meet the needs of
specific circumstances.
         (a)   Inspection and monitoring. Industrial wastes discharged into the
public sewers shall be subject to periodic inspection with a determination of
character and concentration of the wastes. The determination shall be made as
often as may be deemed necessary by the engineer but in no case less than two
24-hour composite samples per month. The owner shall be responsible for the
collection and testing of the aforementioned samples.
         (b)   Sampling. Samples shall be collected in such a manner so as to
be representative of the composition of the wastes. The sampling shall be
accomplished by the use of automatic sampling equipment capable of collecting
composite samples. Access to sampling locations shall be granted to the
engineer or his or her authorized representative at all times. Every care shall
be exercised in the collection of samples to ensure their preservation in a
state comparable to that at the time the same was taken.
      (2)   Analysis of industrial wastewaters. Laboratory analysis of
industrial wastewater samples shall be performed in accordance with the current
edition of Standard Methods or the Methods for Chemical Analysis of Water and
Waste published by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Analysis of those
pollutants not covered by these publications shall be performed in accordance
with procedures established by the State Environmental Protection Agency.
However, alternative methods for certain analyses of industrial wastes may be
used subject to mutual agreement between the engineer and the person
responsible for its discharge. Determination of the character and concentration
of the industrial wastes shall be made by the person responsible for the
discharge, or his or her qualified agent as approved by the engineer.
         (a)   The results of the analyses shall be reported to the village on
a monthly basis on forms provided by the village. The village shall make its
own analyses on the wastes, and these determinations shall be binding as a
basis for charges, except under circumstances in the following division.
         (b)   In case the analyses performed by the industry and the village
result in substantially different values, an effort shall be made by the
industry to collect samples at the same time the village collects its own
samples. The results of the analyses on the samples collected by the village
and the industry shall be compared using the same testing procedures as
outlined in the latest edition of Standard Methods and the differences
negotiated.
(Ord. 15-79, passed 4-2-1979)
WATER AND SANITARY SEWER BYLAWS
§ 51.030 CONTROL OF SYSTEM.
   (A)   The municipal utilities systems of the village including but not
limited to all treatment facilities, water mains, sewer mains, valves,
hydrants, meters, man holes and other appurtenances are under the control of
the Administrative Director. The Administrative Director shall draft bylaws and
regulations for the operation of the municipal utilities system and may amend
those regulations when necessary with the approval of Council provided that
these regulations are not in conflict with other ordinances, resolutions, or
regulations adopted by Council.
   (B)   Effective immediately, the following bylaws shall govern the operation
of the Water/Sewer Department of the village and all prior rules are hereby
repealed.
(Ord. 2010-84, passed 8-16-2010)
§ 51.031 CONNECTION TO WATER AND SEWER LINES REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner of all existing buildings within the village which are
located on a public street right-of-way or permanent easement owned by this
village which contains a municipal water line or municipal sanitary sewer line
shall connect to the water or sanitary sewer line within one year after the
effective date of this section or one year after the completion and acceptance
of any sanitary sewer or water line constructed in the future.
   (B)   The owner of all new or proposed buildings which are located on a
public street right-of-way or permanent easement owned by this village which
contains a municipal water line or sanitary sewer line shall connect to the
lines within 90 days after the issuance of the zoning permit for the building.
   (C)   Upon application in writing to this village supported by documentation
showing that the owner of the building has an annual income of less than 80% of
the medium family income in the village in accordance with the most recently
available data and provided the application shall be received within nine
months of the effective date of this section or nine months after the
completion of any future water or sanitary sewer line, Council may by motion
and for good cause shown extend the time for the connection to the water or
sanitary sewer line for a period of time not to exceed two years.
   (D)   In the event a public water supply and a public sewage disposal system
cannot reasonably be made available, the developer shall submit proof
satisfactory to the village and to the appropriate Board of Health that a safe
and adequate source of water for domestic use and a safe and adequate means of
sewage disposal can and will be provided.
(Ord. 2010-84, passed 8-16-2010)
§ 51.032 WATER AND SEWER CONSUMPTION CHARGES.
   Water and sanitary sewer rates are frequently review and adjusted by Village
Council and the Administrator to insure that revenues are sufficient to meet
operating expenses, capital replacement needs, and debt service in the utility
funds. Rates are established by ordinance adopted by Village Council and are
available online at the village’s website, www.bellvilleohio.net.
(Ord. 2010-84, passed 8-16-2010)
§ 51.033 WATER TAP FEES.
   Tap fees are established by Village Council after periodic review and
recommendation of the Public Utilities Committee of Council. The current fee
for a three-quarter-inch tap is $1,000 if the village makes the tap and $600 if
the contractor makes the tap. For this tap fee, the village will supply the
curb box and curb stop (valve) and a three-quarter-inch meter to be installed
by the village when the plumbing for the meter is in place. For a one-inch tap,
the fee is $1,250 if the village makes the tap and $750 if the contractor makes
the tap. For all taps larger than one inch, the tap fee is $1,000 per inch
diameter of the service line. All taps larger than one inch shall be made by
the contractor/developer, and the village will supply and install an
appropriately sized water meter when the proper plumbing is in place.
(Ord. 2010-84, passed 8-16-2010)
§ 51.034 WATER SUPPLY AND SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   Design requirements. The village's water supply system and wastewater
collection system shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the
requirements of the village subdivision regulations, Chapter 154 of this code,
and the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
   (B)   Minimum standards and specifications. The minimum standards and
specifications for the design of a water and sanitary sewer system are listed
in the current edition of the subdivision regulations and improvement standards
of the village. See
Chapter 154 of this code.
   (C)   Cost of improvements. The entire cost of preparing drawings and
specifications, including engineering, supervisors, and overhead together with
inspection of construction, shall be borne by the developer. If required by the
village, the estimated cost of that work shall be deposited as the village may
direct prior to approval of the subdivision plat.
   (D)   Drawing requirements. The drawing shall include detail of typical lot,
showing general location of proposed home, driveway, well, cistern, septic
tank, aerobic sewage treatment devices, tile absorption areas or subsurface
filters and discharge piping, downspout, piping, footer tile drainage, yard and
area drains, and all underground public utilities.
   (E)   Area requirements for certain sized lots. In areas not served by
either public or community sanitary sewer or water, residential, commercial, or
industrial lots shall be not less than 100 feet in average width nor less than
20,000 square feet in area.
   (F)   Lots within 2,000 feet of streams, drainage courses. In the absence of
a public or community sewage system, a minimum of one-acre lots and 150 feet
frontage may be required where the lots are within 2,000 feet of streams or
major drainage courses emptying into a public water supply, if reasonably
necessary to protect the water supply from contamination.
   (G)   Inspection. Private sewage disposal system will be visually checked at
least once each year by the Village Sewage Department for any violations of
standards and regulations of the Richland County General Health District.
(Ord. 2010-84, passed 8-16-2010)
§ 51.035 MAINTENANCE OF WATER AND SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   Water and sewer service lines are installed by the property owner at his or
her expense. The property owner shall be responsible for any water leakage
which may occur between the curb valve and the point of consumption, and shall
be responsible for any blockage or leakage which may occur in any sanitary
sewer service line from the building to the main line or manhole.
(Ord. 2010-84, passed 8-16-2010)
§ 51.036 RESTRICTIONS ON WATER USAGE.
   (A)   Water Management Task Force. There is hereby established a local Water
Management Task Force composed of the Mayor, Village Administrator, Water
Department Superintendent, President Pro Tempore of Council and the Chairperson
of Council's Public Utilities Committee. The purpose of this task force is to
monitor the municipal water supply and the use of water within the village. The
Mayor shall serve as chairperson of the task force and all actions shall be by
a majority vote of all of its members. Meetings of the task force may be called
by the Mayor or any two members and shall be held at such times and places as
will allow as many members as possible to attend.
   (B)   Declaration of emergency; ban on outdoor use of water. The task force
shall have the authority to declare a water emergency and/or impose a mandatory
ban upon the outdoor use of water. The ban shall not extend to the following:
irrigation for the production of food, maintenance of pets and livestock;
watering by commercial nurseries at a minimum level to maintain stock (to the
extent that other water sources are not available or feasible), operation of
municipal swimming pools or pools used by health care facilities for patient
care and rehabilitation; fire hydrants for fire fighting or health protection
purposes (if specifically approved by local health officials, and the local
governing body); flushing of sewers and hydrants to ensure public health and
safety (if approved by the local governing body); and make-up water for air
conditioning cooling towers or refilling (specifically approved by health
officials and the local governing body) after draining for health protection or
repair purposes.
   (C)   Notice of ban. Upon the determination that a ban upon the outdoor use
of water with the exceptions listed in division (B) above should be imposed,
the task force shall notify the news media and use such other means as it deems
appropriate to bring to the attention of all water customers of the village
that a water ban has been imposed. The task force shall have the authority to
cancel the ban as conditions warrant.
   (D)   Request for conservation. During a water emergency caused by any
natural or man-made shortage of potable water, the task force may issue
instructions and request cooperation of water customers to encourage
conservation of water and reduction of consumption during the duration of the
shortage. News releases will be issued as needed to keep customers appraised of
the status of the village's water supply.
   (E)   Report to council. The task force shall report to Council at each
regular Council meeting or at a special Council meeting called for that
purpose, the status of the municipal water supply, water consumption and the
status of any water ban imposed along with any recommendations for amendments
as may be required to this subchapter.
(Ord. 2010-84, passed 8-16-2010)
§ 51.037 WATER SERVICE LINE REPAIR.
   The Village of Bellville shall be responsible for repairs and maintenance of
service lines from the main to, and including, the curb stop. Maintenance of
the service line from the curb stop to the building is the responsibility of
the property owner. If a property owner fails to make arrangements for repairs
to correct a leaking service line within a reasonable time, as determined by
the Administrator, the village may discontinue service. If the property owner
wishes to pay the village the costs of labor and materials to make necessary
repairs, a temporary work easement will be required to permit the village to
enter onto private property to perform the work, and to limit the village’s
liability for potential damages. If payment is not received within 60 days
after the billing date for the repair work, the past due amount will be
certified to the Richland County Auditor to be placed upon the tax duplicate
for that property for collection with real estate taxes under the provisions of
the Ohio Revised Code.
(Ord. 2010-84, passed 8-16-2010; Res. 2013-30, passed 10-1-2013)
§ 51.038 METER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every water service shall be equipped with a water meter secured
through the village and approved by the Administrator. Meters may be new or
used, and used meters must be tested and approved by the Administrator or his
or her authorized agents. No meter smaller than three-fourths inch shall be
installed. The cost of furnishing three-fourths-inch or one-inch water meters
is included in the tapping fees. Meters larger than one inch shall be supplied
by the customer. All water meters are the property of the village. Two-inch and
larger water meters shall be of the compound type.
   (B)   For those water connections where there is no suitable location for a
water meter, a meter box or water meter vault shall be required at the expense
of the property owner. Such water meter box or vault must be approved by the
Water Department Superintendent.
   (C)   Each meter shall be provided with a shut-off valve on inlet piping.
Such shut-offs shall be readily accessible. Each service connection shall be
provided with a ground around the meter.
   (D)   Meters must be installed in such manner and place that will make them
readily accessible for reading. If meters must be installed in a location that
prohibits convenient reading, a remote reading meter may be required.
(Ord. 2010-84, passed 8-16-2010)
§ 51.039 MAINTENANCE OF METERS.
   Water meters shall be maintained by the village and repaired or replaced
when necessary. All three-quarter-inch and one-inch meters will be replaced by
the village when necessary without charge except in the case of damage due to
freezing or other negligent forms of abuse. In such cases, the village may bill
the customer for the costs to repair or replace the meter. For meters larger
than one inch, it shall be the responsibility of the property owner or customer
to pay any costs for repair or replacement of any meter when meters fail to
record usage within plus or minus 2% accuracy. The village has the right to
test any meter for accuracy upon written notice to the owner/customer during
reasonable working hours. If a meter fails to register properly, the Water
Department will prepare an estimated bill based upon historical usage records.
(Ord. 2010-84, passed 8-16-2010)
§ 51.040 SECONDARY OR “DEDUCT” METERS.
   A water customer may request installation of a secondary “water only” or
sewer deduct meter at their own expense for the purpose of computing water
usage for non-potable uses that do not discharge to the sanitary sewer. Such
meters shall be subject to periodic inspection by Village Water Department
employees during reasonable hours. Denial of a village inspection will result
in sewer charges on all recorded usage at that premises.
(Ord. 2010-84, passed 8-16-2010)
§ 51.041 BACKFLOW CONTAMINATION PREVENTION.
   (A)   If in the opinion of the Village Administrator or Utility
Superintendent the rules and regulations of the Water Department including the
standards of the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency incorporated therein
dealing with the backflow of contamination require a backflow prevention device
for the protection of the public water system, the Administrator will give
notice to the water consumer to install such an approved device immediately.
The water consumer shall, at his or her own expense, install such an approved
device at a location and in a manner approved by the Administrator, and shall
have inspections and tests made of those approved devices as required by the
Administrator.
   (B)   No person, firm, or corporation shall establish, or permit to be
established, or maintain any connection whereby a private, auxiliary, or
emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply of this
village may enter the supply or distribution system of this village unless the
private, auxiliary, or emergency water supply and the method of the connection
and use of the supply shall have been approved by the Administrator and by the
Ohio Environmental Protection Agency.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Administrator to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of industrial and other properties served by the
public water supply where actual or potential hazards to the public water
supply may exist. The surveys and investigations shall be made a matter of
public record and shall be repeated as often as the Administrator shall deem
necessary.
   (D)   The Administrator or Utility Superintendent or their duly authorized
representative shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time and any
property served by a connection to the public water supply or distributing
system of this village for the purpose of inspecting the piping system or
systems thereof. The owner, lessees, or of any property so served shall furnish
upon reasonable notice to the Administrator or the Utility Superintendent any
information which he or she may request regarding the piping system or systems
use in the property. The refusal of that information, when demanded, shall,
within the discretion of either of these officials be deemed evidence of the
presence of improper connections as provided in this section.
   (E)   The Administrator is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue,
after reasonable notice to the occupant therefore, the water service to any
property wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this section
is known to exist, and to take such other precautionary measures as he or she
may deem necessary to eliminate any danger or contamination of the public water
supply distribution mains. Water service to the property shall not be restored
until the conditions shall have been eliminated or corrected in compliance with
the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 2010-84, passed 8-16-2010; Res. 17-2020, passed 4-21-2020)
§ 51.0411 BOOSTER PUMPS.
   (A)   No person shall install or maintain a water service connection where a
booster pump has been installed, unless an approved method is in place and is
operational to maintain a minimum suction pressure as prescribed in the
following:
      (1)   For booster pumps not intended to be used for fire suppression, no
person shall install or maintain a water service connection to any premises
where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or within such
premises, unless such booster pump is equipped with a low pressure cut-off
designed to shut off the booster pump when the pressure in the service line on
the suction side of the pump drops to ten pounds per square inch gauge or less.
      (2)   For booster pumps used for fire suppression, also referred to as
fire pumps, no person shall install or maintain a water service connection to
any premises where a fire pump has been installed on the service line to or
within such premises, unless the pump is equipped with one of the following:
         (a)   A low suction throttling valve which is a pilot-operated valve
installed in the discharge piping that maintains positive pressure in the
suction piping, while monitoring pressure in the suction piping through a
sensing line. The valve must throttle the discharge of the pump when necessary
so that suction pressure will not be reduced below ten pounds per square inch
gauge while the pump is operating.
         (b)   A variable speed suction limiting control which is a speed
control system used to maintain a minimum positive suction pressure at the pump
inlet by reducing the pump driver speed while monitoring pressure in the
suction piping through a sensing line. It will be set so that the suction
pressure will not be reduced below ten pounds per square inch gauge while the
pump is operating.
      (3)   Booster pumps used for fire suppression, also referred to as fire
pumps, installed prior to August 8, 2008, which are equipped with a low
pressure cut-off as defined in division (A)(1) of this rule, are not required
to be modified solely for the purpose of meeting the new methods accepted after
this date, under division (A)(2) of this rule.
   (B)   The water consumer shall maintain the low pressure cut-off device, the
low suction throttling valve, or the variable speed suction limiting control in
proper working order and certify to the supplier of water, at least once every
12 months that the minimum suction pressure sustaining method is operable and
maintained in continuous operation.
   (C)   The supplier of water shall maintain electronic or paper records of
inventory of booster pump installations. Electronic or paper records certifying
operation must be retained for a period of five years.
   (D)   The provisions of this rule shall be followed notwithstanding
inconsistent provisions in the “Great Lakes-Upper Mississippi River Board of
State and Provincial Public Health and Environmental Managers’ Recommended
Standards for Water Works” (2012). As of March 2020, copies are available from
“Ohio EPA, Lazarus Government Center, 50 West Town Street, Suite 700, Columbus,
OH 43215, (614) 644-2752” or online at http://10statesstandards.com or
www.epa.ohio.gov/ddagw.
(Res. 17-2020, passed 4-21-2020)
§ 51.042 RESPONSIBILITY FOR PAYMENT OF ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   Utility bills will be sent to the name and address of the account
holder as established with the Utilities Clerk on or before the 1st day of the
billing month. The account holder shall be the customer who has entered into an
agreement to pay for utilities service. The account may be in the name of the
property owner or tenant or other consumer who occupies a unit to which
utilities service is provided. The village will accept payment for water and
sewer accounts from the owner of the premises or from another consumer such as
a tenant, but the responsibility for payment of unpaid accounts rests with the
property owner.
   (B)   The owner of a rental property may elect to execute a "water service
contract" with the village whereby the owner maintains the water/sewer account
in his or her name and all utility bills are sent to the owner. It is the
responsibility of the owner to collect for water/sewer usage from all tenants
at that premises. When accounts become delinquent, the owner assumes
responsibility for any penalties or late charges or disconnection of service.
Accounts remaining unpaid after a period of six months will be certified to the
Richland County Auditor to be placed upon the real property tax duplicate, or
the village may attempt to collect unpaid accounts by civil action. The owner
of the property agrees to provide the village with at least 14 days advance
notice of a pending sale of the property.
   (C)   All unpaid accounts may be placed as a lien against the property
served.
   (D)   Any person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity having a
delinquent service account with the Bellville Water/Sewer Department shall not
be furnished service at any other premises until such delinquent account is
paid in full, including all penalties and service charges.
(Ord. 2010-84, passed 8-16-2010; Res. 4-2016, passed 2-2-2016)
§ 51.043 VOLUNTARY DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE.
   Any person, firm, partnership, corporation or on any other legal entity may
discontinue water service after notice to the Utilities Clerk and the proper
remuneration has been made to the date of the discontinuance. The final bill
will be computed based upon a proration of the services used since the last
billing.
(Ord. 2010-84, passed 8-16-2010)
§ 51.044 TERMINATION OF ACCOUNTS FOR NONPAYMENT.
   (A)   The last date for payment of utility bills shall be on or before the
18th day of the current month. If the customer fails to pay the account in
full, or fails to arrange a payment schedule approved by the Village
Administrator, the Water/Sewer Department shall apply a late payment penalty of
10% of the unpaid balance, print and mail out delinquency notices on the first
business day after the due date printed on the bill. The delinquency notice
shall indicate the amount of the bill which must be paid in full by the date
indicated in the notice, which shall not be less than ten days from the date of
the delinquency notice, to avoid termination of service, unless the customer
files a written request for a hearing on the account before the Public
Utilities Committee of Council prior to the final date established for
termination of service.
   (B)   If payment is not received in full by 10:00 a.m. on the disconnect
date, the Water/Sewer Department may terminate service unless the planned
disconnection would be between November 15 through April 15, in which case the
customer at the premises will be notified ten days prior to the disconnection
by personal contact, telephone or hand-delivered written notice. Payments made
on the date of disconnect must be by cash, cashier's check or money order.
Checks will no longer be accepted on that day. Credit card payments must reach
our office prior to the disconnect date to avoid disconnection. Please be
mindful that any credit card payment takes a minimum of three business days to
process.
      (1)   If the customer is a renter, a letter will also be mailed to the
landlord stating the tenant's name, address, account number, and the amount
past due along with the scheduled termination date.
      (2)   Each customer shall be informed of the right to enter into the
below payment plan.
      (3)   The plan requires payment of three equal monthly payments on
arrearages in addition to full payment of current bills.
      (4)   If no contact from the customer has been made after the deadline, a
letter will be sent to the Richland County Job and Family Services to notify
them of the intent to terminate the services of the customer (including the
name and address of the customer) along with a copy of the letter of
termination that was sent to the customer. It will be sent at least 24 hours
before such action is taken.
      (5)   If the customer fails to make contact with the utility office to
make payment arrangements, the customer will be contacted by the utility
employee(s) with a 24-hour notice of intent to shut-off their utilities. If the
customer is not home, or contact is not made, the Administrator will attach a
written notice to the premises prior to termination.
      (6)   Utilities will not be terminated after 12:00 p.m. on Thursday or
the day before a holiday when the customer cannot make arrangements or
utilities cannot be reconnected.
   (C)   In the event that a utilities customer has arranged a payment schedule
for a delinquent account as approved by the Administrator, and the customer
fails to comply with the payment date and amount as established in that written
agreement, the Water/Sewer Department shall provide notice by regular first
class U.S. mail or by posting a notice on the property that water service will
be terminated within five calendar days of the mailing or posting unless the
amount is paid in full.
   (D)   A $50 shut-off charge will be added to the bill. Service may be
restored only upon full payment of the account by cash, certified cashier's
check, or money order.
   (E)   If a customer informs the office of a medical problem, the office will
inform the customer that a Certificate of Special Danger to Health must be
provided in writing from a licensed physician stating the name of the person,
that the person is a permanent resident of the premises in question, the name,
business address, and telephone number of the physician, the nature of the
condition, a signed statement from the physician that the disconnection of
service will be especially dangerous to health, and the period of time during
which termination will be especially dangerous to health.
      (1)   The written certification must be on the village approved form.
      (2)   Initial certification by the physician may be made by telephone if
written certification is forwarded to the utility office within seven working
days.
      (3)   Certification shall prohibit disconnection of services for 30 days.
Certification may be renewed two additional times (30 days each) by a licensed
physician or local Board of Health physician by providing an additional
certificate to the office. The total certification period is not to exceed 90
days in any 12 month period.
      (4)   Upon renewal of certification, the Village Administrator shall make
personal contact with the customer and inform them of the governmental
assistance programs that may be available.
      (5)   If a medical certificate is used to avoid disconnection, the
customer shall enter into an extended payment plan prior to the end of the
medical certification period or be subject to disconnection. The initial
payment on the plan shall not be due until the end of the certification period.
(Ord. 2010-84, passed 8-16-2010; Res. 4-2016, passed 2-2-2016)
§ 51.045 APPEALS TO PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Customers who contest unusually high utilities bill may request a
hearing within the allotted time frame (not exceeding 15 days from the date of
the bill) before the Public Utilities Committee of Village Council who shall
act as the final authority for any adjustments to water and sewer accounts not
already authorized by the Village Administrator.
   (B)   If a customer contests a higher than normal bill, the first step is to
request a meter test to be performed by the village with a witness to the test
by the customer or his or her representative. If the meter tests with 2%
accurate (AWWA Standard) the meter shall be presumed to be correct unless a
later independent test secured by the customer and performed by a certified
test facility proves otherwise. Such test will be at the customer's expense.
   (C)   The customer may also arrange for an inspection of the property in
question by a certified plumber accompanied by a representative of the
Bellville Water Department to try to determine probable causes for the higher
than average usage and whether any wasted water went to the village's sanitary
sewer system. The findings of the plumber shall be recorded in a sworn
affidavit also signed by the village's representative.
   (D)   If wasted water was not discharged to the sewer system, sanitary sewer
charges should then be waived. If no explanation can be found for the higher
than normal usage, and it cannot be determined if the water was discharged to
the sanitary sewer, the Public Utilities Committee has the authority to cap
total water and sewer charges at a maximum of $500 and waive any late
penalties. It may also authorize an extended payment plan for the customer to
pay the amount established.
(Ord. 2010-84, passed 8-16-2010; Res. 4-2016, passed 2-2-2016)
§ 51.046 FEES FOR WATER SHUT-OFFS.
   (A)   Except for emergency terminations made necessary by water system
repairs or failures, terminations will be made in the morning after 8:00 a.m.
during regular work hours Monday through Thursday, but not on any recognized
legal or religious holiday.
   (B)   For those customers who plan to be out of the village for more than
one month, or for those businesses that are seasonal, voluntary water shut-off
may be requested. The village will make the shut-off at its convenience during
normal working hours within five days of the requested date for discontinuance
of service. The fee for such voluntary shut-off and later restoration of
service will be $25, payable at the time of shut-off.
   (C)   When service is terminated for non-payment, service will not be
restored until all charges for water consumed, late payment penalties, plus a
reconnection charge of $50 to reimburse the village for expenses of shutoff and
reconnection are paid in full.
   (D)   Water and sewer accounts which are more than six months delinquent may
be certified to the Richland County Auditors office to be placed upon the tax
duplicate for that property for collection with real estate taxes according to
the provisions of the Ohio Revised Code.
(Ord. 2010-84, passed 8-16-2010; Res. 4-2016, passed 2-2-2016)
§ 51.047 READING OF METERS.
   (A)   Water and sewer bills will be prepared and sent to customers every
other month. It is the policy of the village that meters must be read at least
three times each year by a representative of the Water Department. For the
remaining billings, an estimated billing may be calculated.
   (B)   Customers living in and around the SR 97 and I 71 corridor will be
billed on a monthly basis.
(Ord. 2010-84, passed 8-16-2010; Res. 4-2016, passed 2-2-2016)
§ 51.048 SERVICE TO NONRESIDENTS.
   (A)   The village may, at its discretion, provide utilities service to
persons, firms, partnerships, corporations or other entities outside of the
corporation limits of the village if facilities are available or the extension
of service is economically beneficial to the village and if adequate capacity
is available.
   (B)   All utility customers outside of the village corporation limit shall
have applied to the regular utility charges listed within these regulations a
100% surcharge to all metered service.
   (C)   The village reserves the right to discontinue water service to all
customers outside of the corporation limit at any time when it is deemed
necessary to conserve water for customers within the corporation limit. The
Water Department will attempt to provide as much notice as possible prior to
termination of service to avoid inconvenience and damage to customer facilities
and equipment.
(Ord. 2010-84, passed 8-16-2010)
§ 51.049 CONNECTION PERMITS.
   The owner of each property desiring a connection into the sanitary sewer of
the village must obtain a permit in the office of the Administrator located in
the municipal building. A separate permit is required for each connection.
(Ord. 2010-84, passed 8-16-2010)
§ 51.050 PRIVATE SANITARY SEWER SYSTEMS PROHIBITED.
   Except as hereinafter provided in this subchapter, no person shall construct
or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Ord. 2010-84, passed 8-16-2010)
§ 51.051 DISPOSITION OF SANITARY SEWAGE.
   Sewage, including wastes from water closets, urinals, lavatories, sinks,
bathtubs, showers, laundries, cellar floor drains, garage floor drains, bars,
soda foundations, cuspidors, refrigerator drips, drinking fountains, stable
floor drains and other objectionable wastes shall be discharged into a sanitary
or combined sewer and in no case into a storm water sewer.
(Ord. 2010-84, passed 8-16-2010)
§ 51.052 SEWER SYSTEM DESIGN.
   Sanitary facilities shall be designed constructed by the subdivider, as
required by the village subdivision regulations and approved by the Village
Engineer for the proper disposal of wastes for each lot.
(Ord. 2010-84, passed 8-16-2010)
§ 51.053 PEAK DESIGN FLOW.
   Sanitary sewers shall be designed on a peak design flow basis using one of
the following methods:
   (A)   The ratio of peak average flow (ADF).
   (B)   Values established from the infiltration/inflow study approved by the
OEPA.
   (C)   Values obtained from the flow records of a similar facility over a
period of time sufficient to establish with a reasonable degree of reliability
the relationship between average dry weather flow and peak design flow.
   (D)   Peak flows as determined by the Great Lakes Upper Mississippi River
Board (GLUMRB) (Ten States Standards), latest version.
   (E)   Use of other values for peak design flow will be considered if
justified on the basis of extensive documentation.
   (F)   Pretreatment of all industrial waste must be as prescribed by the
village and will require approval of the village for discharge of the effluent
into a village sanitary sewer system.
(Ord. 2010-84, passed 8-16-2010)
§ 51.054 SANITARY SEWER MAINS.
   In general, the minimum size of sanitary sewer mains lines shall be eight
inches. However, six-inch sanitary sewers may be used as private lateral sewers
for apartments, camps, schools, restaurants, and other semi-public operations,
provided their hydraulic capacity is not exceeded because of short run-off
periods (high peak flows).
(Ord. 2010-84, passed 8-16-2010)
§ 51.055 SANITARY SEWER TAP FEES.
   Tap fees are established by Village Council after periodic review and
recommendation of the Public Utilities Committee of Council. The current tap
fee for a six-inch service connection shall be $1,000 for a property with a
water meter sized two inches or less and $2,000 for a service with a water
meter larger than two inches in capacity. All sewer taps shall be the sole
responsibility of the builder/developer. The village will inspect the tap into
the village's main line and the materials and manner of construction of the
lateral sewer to make sure it is in compliance with village regulations.
(Ord. 2010-84, passed 8-16-2010)
§ 51.056 SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Service connections shall consist of vitrified clay, soil, cast iron
or SDR-35 or American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) D3034 of a size
not less than four-inches nominal, nor more than six-inches maximum diameter.
Vitrified clay pipe and fittings shall conform to specifications for Extra
Strength Clay Sewer Pipe ASTM C-700-7901. Six-inch pipe shall be used in new
construction. The service connections shall be of premium joint construction
and made of PVC schedule 40 pipe or SDR-35. Cleanouts are required outside all
structures or units. In multi-tenant buildings, individual services may be
connected to a common pipe, then to the main.
   (B)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the front
building sewer may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as
one building sewer, but the village does not, and shall not, assume any
obligation or responsibility for damage caused by, or resulting from, any such
single connection aforementioned, and/or dimensions are not compatible, a
commercial adapter shall be provided. A copy of an ordinance or regulation
requiring this type of construction must be on file with OEPA district office
or submitted with all sewer plans to receive approval.
(Ord. 2010-84, passed 8-16-2010)
§ 51.0561 SERVICE LINE SHUT-OFF VALVES.
   (A)   From the date of adoption of this section, each dwelling unit shall
have a separate service line and shut off valve (curb stop) or;
   (B)   Each building having multiple dwelling units shall have individual
valves inside a building in an area accessible to Village Water/Sewer
Department employees who may have a need to discontinue service to a particular
unit to repair or replace a meter or terminate service for non- payment.
Village employees must be provided access to this valve location after a
reasonable period of notification to the building user.
   (C)   Multiple tenant buildings built before the date of adoption of this
section shall be required to either bring their building into compliance with
the above requirements or they must maintain the water/sewer service account in
their name, and they shall be responsible for collection of water/service
charges from their tenants and payment of all bills for that service account
along with any late fees or penalties.
(Res. 24-2015, passed 8-18-2015)
§ 51.057 BEDDING; LINE, GRADE AND LOCATION.
   (A)   All pipe shall be laid true to line and grade. Any change in
horizontal direction shall be made with long radius curves, one-eighth bends or
wye branches.
   (B)   All pipe shall be laid to a minimum grade of one-fourth inch per foot
unless otherwise approved by the Director of Utilities.
   (C)   No pipe shall be laid closer than three feet to any exterior wall,
cellar, basement, well or cistern or less than two feet deep.
   (D)   A building sewer shall be a minimum of ten feet from any household
water supply source and water service line.
(Ord. 2010-84, passed 8-16-2010)
§ 51.058 TAPPING EXISTING LINES.
    When service lines are connected to main sewers which have no existing wye
branches installed, the contractor shall be required to make the tap using
commercially manufactured vitrified wye saddles or cut in PVC wye. The saddles
shall have an integrally cast flange that will prevent the saddle from
projecting into the main sewer. After the saddle has been installed in the main
sewer, the entire joint shall be encased in a minimum of six inches of
concrete. Provisions shall be made to prevent the concrete from dropping into
the barrel of the main sewer. The entire operation shall be performed only when
a City Inspector or Engineer is on the job site.
(Ord. 2010-84, passed 8-16-2010)
§ 51.059 SERVICE CONNECTIONS AT MANHOLES.
   Where a connection is made to a sanitary sewer at a manhole connection not
previously provided for, it shall be made in the wall of the manhole with a
smooth channel or pipe constructed to the sewer according to the directions of
the Director of Utilities. A tee cleanout shall be used in the manhole; two
feet and higher above floor shall require drop pipe secured to wall.
(Ord. 2010-84, passed 8-16-2010)
§ 51.060 BACKFILL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   After the pipe has been laid and the joint completed, sand, crushed
run stone, grits, bank run sand and gravel or selected trench excavation, if
approved by the Director of Utilities, shall be placed and tamped along the
sides of the pipe and worked under the sides without “lifting” the pipe or
causing other movement which will break the joint or cause the pipe to move off
alignment. The foregoing material shall be used as backfill to halfway up the
pipe. Select earth backfill shall be placed along the sides of the pipe and
thoroughly tamped in six-inch layers up to the top of the pipe. Then, using
select material, the trench shall be backfilled by hand up to a point at least
six inches over the top of the pipe. Mechanical or other means of accomplishing
the balance of the backfill may then be used for filling the remainder of the
trench.
   (B)   At all trench and excavation locations which are subject to traffic,
such as in or across streets, highways and driveways, No. 9 aggregate (Ohio
State Highway Specifications) or other suitable materials, properly compacted,
shall be used for trench backfill. The pavement shall be replaced with a
pavement composed of base and wearing courses equal to the original.
(Ord. 2010-84, passed 8-16-2010)
§ 51.061 STREET OPENINGS.
   (A)   The sewer contractor, in making excavations in any street, alley,
public way or other public place, shall in all respects be governed by the
provisions of law and the ordinances of the village now in force or which may
be hereafter adopted regulating excavations. If the contractor violates any of
the ordinances of the village or laws of the state relative to the excavating
of streets or other public places, or the opening, tapping and/or connecting
with public sewers, drains and drainage facilities, the Director shall have the
power to suspend the license for such time as he or she may deem proper, or
revoke the same as he or she may deem appropriate in the public interest.
   (B)   The sewer contractor assumes responsibility for restoring any
pavement, curb, sidewalk, driveway, sewer pipes or appurtenance, shrubbery, law
or other facility in the public right-of-way which is disturbed or damaged by
the operations.
(Ord. 2010-84, passed 8-16-2010)
§ 51.062 ILLEGAL CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   There shall be no physical connection between a public or private
potable water supply system and a sewer or appurtenances thereto which would
permit the passage of any sewage or polluted water into the potable supply.
   (B)   Roof drains, foundation drains, sump pumps, yard drains and all other
clear water connections to the sanitary sewer are prohibited. The Village
Administrator or any employee of the village designated by him or her may enter
upon any lot or parcel of land within the village and test any downspout or
storm water drain on any building thereon to determine whether or not it
discharges water into any sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 2010-84, passed 8-16-2010)
§ 51.063 CORRECTIVE ORDER AND EXPENSES THEREFOR.
   If investigations and tests reveal that downspouts, street drains or any
surface waters flow into any sanitary sewer, the Village Administrator may
order the abatement of the condition. The Administrator is authorized to
require immediate disconnection of any downspout which is found flowing into a
sanitary sewer, and the downspout shall be discharged into a storm sewer or
onto a splash block or other device, provided that no water so discharged flows
onto adjoining property or over sidewalks. All costs involved in any necessary
corrective action shall be at the sole expense of the property owner,
contractor or builder involved. Failure to comply with the order shall be
considered a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-84, passed 8-16-2010)
§ 51.064 WATERS AND WASTES NOT TO BE DISCHARGED.
   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers or treatment works:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
   (B)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 6.0 higher than 9.0 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the wastewater works.
   (C)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other appurtenances with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities such as, but not limited to,
ashes, bones, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastic, wood, un-ground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure,
entrails, and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc. either whole or ground
by garbage grinders.
   (D)   Wastewater having a temperature higher than 120° Fahrenheit.
   (E)   Any water or waste containing any toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to interfere with the village's wastewater treatment
process or constituting a hazard to humans or animals, or causing any violation
of discharge standards in local receiving streams.
   (F)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such character or
concentration that unusual attention, treatment, or expense is required at the
wastewater treatment plant.
   (G)   Any water or wastes which by interaction with other water or wastes in
the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended solids which
interfere with the collection system, or create a condition deleterious to
structures and treatment processes.
   (H)   (1)   Wastewater containing more than 50 milligrams per liter of
petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oils, products of mineral oil origin,
or floatable oils, fat, wax, or grease in excess of 100 mg/l as determined by
the currently approved test for total recoverable fats and grease as listed in
40 C.F.R. § 136.3 . Floatable oil and grease (FOG) interceptors shall be
provided when, in the opinion of the Administrator, they are necessary for the
proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts,
flammable wastes, or other harmful ingredients; except that the interceptors
shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. The FOG
interceptor shall be installed on a separate building sewer servicing kitchen
flows only which would allow fats oils and grease to be discharged through the
interceptor. This shall include all pot sinks, pre-rinse sinks, any other sinks
into which oils and grease are likely to be introduced, floor drains into which
kettles may be drained, automatic hood wash units, dishwashers or any other
fixtures or facilities where oils, fats and grease is likely to be discharged.
No food grinders or garbage disposals may be connected to the FOG interceptor.
      (2)   All FOG interceptors shall be watertight and be constructed of pre-
cast concrete or other similar durable material and shall be so located to be
accessible for convenient inspection, cleaning and maintenance.
      (3)   FOG interceptors shall have a minimum detention time of at least 24
hours at maximum daily flow and shall have a minimum liquid depth of 36 inches
measured from the bottom of the tank to the outlet. The air space from the top
of the liquid to the underside of the tank shall be a minimum of eight inches.
They shall be equipped with easily removable covers which, when bolted in
place, shall be gas tight and water tight. All grease and oil interceptors
shall be maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously
efficient operation at all times.
   (I)   Any (unpolluted) surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, storm water,
subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling water, or unpolluted industrial
process waters to any sanitary sewer. Any existing roof drain connections to
sanitary or combined sewers shall be connected into an available storm sewer or
shall be discharged above ground in an appropriate manner approved by the
village. Discharges from roof drains emptying onto the surface of the ground
shall be at least three feet from adjacent property lines, and shall in no way
be directed so as cause flooding or otherwise damage adjoining property. The
owner of any building(s) situated within the village is required at his or her
expense to disconnect all existing roof drains from sanitary and combined
sewers in accordance with the provisions of this section within 180 days after
the date of official notice to do so. For any new construction, any storm water
connections of roof drains; footer and foundation tiles or any other connection
to a sanitary sewer is prohibited.
   (J)   Any water or wastes containing solids, liquids or gasses in sufficient
quantity either singly or by interaction with other wastes to injure or
interfere with any waste water treatment process or which constitute a hazard
to humans, animals, or waters of the wastewater treatment plant, including, but
not limited to, as shown below. These concentrations shall not be exceeded in
industrial wastes discharged to the public sewers. These maximum concentrations
may be changed as necessary by the Administrator or state regulatory agencies
based on the new information concerning inhibitory substances or to protect
treatment plant processes. Industrial dischargers covered by federal
pretreatment requirements shall meet those limitations specified under the
effluent guidelines published under Section 304(b) and 307(b) of the Federal
Act or the below concentrations, whichever is more stringent.
   (K)   (1)   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined in these regulations.
      (2)   These concentrations shall not be exceeded in industrial wastes
discharged to the public sewers.
Item Mg/l
Item                 Mg/l
Alkalinity           100.0
Ammonia              25.0
Arsenic              4.0
Boron                10.0
Cadmium              0.2
Cations of:
   Calcium        12,000.0
   Magnesium      2,000.0
   Potassium      8,000.0
   Sodium         8,000.0
Chlorides            50.0
Chlorinated organics 20.0
Chloroform           10.0
Chromium
COD3                 500.0
Copper               1.0
Cyanide              0.5
Iron                 15.0
Lead                 0.5
Mercury              0.01
Nickel               2.0
Phenols              0.2
Silver               0.2
Sodium chloride      50,000.0
Sulfates             500.0
Sulfide              200.0
Zinc                 1.0
 
      (3)   The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes having
a five-day chemical biological oxygen demand greater than 200 milligrams per
liter by weight or containing more than 200 milligrams per liter by weight of
suspended solids or containing any quantity of substances having the
characteristics described in the above divisions, or having an average daily
flow greater than 10% of the average daily sewage flow of the village, shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Administrator. The owner shall
provide, at his or her expense, the preliminary treatment as may be necessary
to reduce the chemical biological oxygen demand to 200 milligrams per liter by
weight, or reduce objectionable characteristics of constituents to within the
maximum limits provided above, or control the quantities and rates of discharge
of the waters and waste. Plans and specifications and any other pertinent
information relating to proposed treatment facilities shall be submitted for
approval by the Administrative Director and the Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency; and no construction of the facilities shall be commenced until this
approval is obtained in writing. Where any treatment facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation, by the owner of the treatment facilities at his or her
expense.
      (4)   If the concentration of any industrial waste exceeds the limits
stipulated above, as received at the sewage treatment plant, the contributor
shall reduce, by acceptable pretreatment and flow regulation or both, the
amounts wasted to the public sewer until the aggregate of any such waste
concentration at the treatment works shall not exceed the above prescribed
limits.
(Ord. 2010-84, passed 8-16-2010)
§ 51.065 CONTROL MANHOLE.
   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in these regulations, shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Sewage, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or
on suitable samples taken at that control manhole. In the event that no special
manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the
nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected.
(Ord. 2010-84, passed 8-16-2010)
§ 51.066 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE DIRECTOR. The ADMINISTRATIVE DIRECTOR, or his or her
authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning three feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   CHEMICAL BIOLOGICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (CBOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the chemical biological oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedures in five days at 20° Centigrade, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
chemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
expressed in milligrams per liter.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Means CBOD, suspended solids, pH, and fecal coliform
bacteria plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES permit if the
publicly owned treatment works was designed to treat such pollutant, and in
fact does remove such pollutants to a substantial degree. Examples of such
additional pollutants may include:
      (1)   COD;
      (2)   Total organic carbon;
      (3)   Phosphorous and phosphorous compounds;
      (4)   Nitrogen and nitrogen compounds;
      (5)   Fats, oils and greases of animal or vegetable origin.
   CONSUMER. Any head of household or entity who occupies a unit to which
water/sewer service is provided by the village.
   COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning,
cooling or refrigeration, during which the only pollutant added to the water is
heat.
   CUSTOMER. Any person or entity who enters into an agreement with the village
to pay for water or sanitary sewer service to a unit.
   DOMESTIC SANITARY WASTEWATER. A wastewater discharge having the average
characteristics of 200 mg/l CBOD and 200 mg/l suspended solids concentration.
   FATS, OILS AND GREASE. Any fats oils or grease generated from the food
preparation process as identified in the most current EPA method as listed in
C.F.R. § 136.3.
   FOG INTERCEPTOR. A passive tank installed outside of a building and designed
to remove fats, oils and grease from flowing wastewater while allowing
wastewater to flow through it.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing of food
and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   HOUSE CONNECTION. The pipe carrying the wastewater from the building to a
common public sewer. Also called building sewer, house sewer or lateral. The
HOUSE CONNECTION or lateral begins at the outer face of the building wall and
ends at the sewer main or a manhole in the public right-of-way or a public
sewer easement.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant which is not a compatible pollutant as
defined above.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater from industrial processes, trade, or
business as distinct from domestic sanitary wastes.
   INFLOW. The discharge of any kind of water into sewer lines from such
sources as roof leaders, cellars, sump pumps and yard-area drains, foundation
drains, commercial and industrial so-called clean water discharges, drains from
springs and swampy areas, etc. It does not infiltrate into the system and is
distinguished from such wastewater discharge, as previously defined.
   MAIN SEWER. In larger systems, the principal sewer to which branch sewers
and sub-mains are tributary, also called the trunk sewer. In small systems, a
sewer to which one or more branch sewers are tributary.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Village of Bellville, including its departments and
employees.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or ground water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   POLLUTANT.  Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, wastewater,
garbage, wastewater sludge, munitions, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock,
sand, cellar dirt, and industrial, municipal and agricultural waste discharged
into the water.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer controlled by the village or other public authority.
   REQUEST A HEARING. Mailing a written request for a hearing to the Village
Administrator to request a hearing before the Public Utilities Committee of the
Village Council for the purposes of granting relief from a decision of the
Administrator regarding a water/sewer bill, or to ask for a variance or
exception from any provision of this subchapter.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and wastes and to which storm,
surface, and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SERVE(D) or SERVICE. When used to refer to the service of bills, notices or
decisions, means the use of first class mail, or personal delivery to a person
of suitable age and discretion residing in the unit.
   SERVICE. Water/sewer service provided by the village for consumption.
   SERVICE ACCOUNT. An account for water/sewer services established with the
Utilities Department Water/Sewer Department.
   SERVICE DATE. The date on which such a bill, notice or decision was
personally delivered or three days after such bill, notice or decision was
mailed.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treatment of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SEWERAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
or flows during normal operation which may adversely affect the collection
system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastewater.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface
of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater, or other liquids, and that is
removable by laboratory filtering, as prescribed in Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater.
   TOXIC POLLUTANTS. Include but not necessarily limited to aldrin-dieldrin,
benzidine, cadmium, cyanide, DDT-endrin, mercury, polychlorinated biphenyls
(PCB's) and toxaphene. Pollutants included as toxic shall be those promulgated
as such by the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Bellville, including its departments and employees.
   WASTEWATER (SANITARY WATER). The spent water of a community. From the
standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried
wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions, together with any groundwater, surface water, and storm water
that may be present.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, whether continuously
or intermittently.
(Ord. 2010-84, passed 8-16-2010)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 51.080 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Notification of violation. Whenever the Superintendent finds that any
person has violated or is violating this chapter, or any prohibition,
limitation, or requirement contained herein, he or she may serve upon each
person a written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a
reasonable time, not to exceed 30 days, for the satisfactory correction
thereof.
   (B)   Legal action. Any discharge in violation of the substantive provisions
of this subchapter or an order of the Village Council shall be considered a
public nuisance. If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes, or other
wastes into the village treatment system contrary to the substantive provisions
of this subchapter or any order of the Village Council, the village shall
commence an action for appropriate legal and/or equitable relief in the
appropriate court of this county.
(Ord. 15-79, passed 4-2-1979)
TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR SELLING SURPLUS WATER
§ 51.095 AUTHORIZATION TO SELL; RATE.
   The Village Administrator is authorized to sell surplus village water to any
person, organization, corporation, or other entity not an inhabitant of or
located within the village at a rate of 110% of the village water customer rate
according to the terms and conditions provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 43-87, passed 9-15-1987)
§ 51.096 LOCATION OF TAPS.
   The Board shall determine from what points in the village water system that
taps may be made for the sale of surplus water. The Board is authorized and
directed to charge an appropriate tap charge. Further, the Board shall provide
accurate metering for water use as well as install the necessary valve for
water shutoff from each tap.
(Ord. 43-87, passed 9-15-1987)
§ 51.097 LIMITED RESPONSIBILITY OF VILLAGE.
   Other than installing the tap, meter, and valve the Board, its employees,
and engineers shall not superintend or supervise the construction, laying, or
maintenance of any water line, system, or works connected to the village tap by
a surplus water purchaser. The Board is authorized and directed to require all
purchasers of surplus water to comply with all applicable Board rules and
regulations in the construction, laying, or maintenance of any water line,
system, or works to protect and maintain quality water service to all residents
of the village. The Board shall require all surplus water purchasers to submit
and obtain approval of its design/plans and shall provide for reasonable
inspections of any purchasers’ water line(s) or system to determine whether the
Board’s rules and regulations have been followed.
(Ord. 43-87, passed 9-15-1987)
§ 51.098 NO CONTRACT FOR SALE OF SURPLUS WATER.
   The Board shall not enter into any contract, express or implied, written or
oral, for the sale of surplus water. Any prospective purchaser of surplus water
shall receive a copy of this subchapter and have receipt of this subchapter
acknowledged in writing.
(Ord. 43-87, passed 9-15-1987)
§ 51.099 DEFINITION.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, SURPLUS WATER shall mean the total
village water storage capacity less the sum of [the average daily water usage
within the village and an additional 25% of the average daily water usage
within the village].
(Ord. 43-87, passed 9-15-1987)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Sewer use. Any person who is found to have violated an order of the
village hearing authority or who willfully or negligently failed to comply with
any provisions of §§
51.015 through
51.019 and
51.080, and the orders, rules, and regulations issued hereunder, shall be fined
not less than $100 nor more than $500 for each offense, or those costs incurred
by the village for reasonable damages or special expenses including fines and/
or equipment rental, chemicals, labor, and the like, necessary for the proper
operation and maintenance of all wastewater facilities. Each day on which a
violation shall occur or continue shall be deemed a separate and distinct
offense. In addition to the penalties provided herein, the village may recover
reasonable attorneys’ fees, court costs, court reporters’ fees, and any other
expenses of litigation by appropriate suit at law against the person found to
have violated these sections or the orders, rules, and regulations issued
hereunder.
   (C)   Unauthorized discharge of liquid wastes per §
51.017(F). The violation of §
51.017(F) shall be a misdemeanor of the first degree. A mandatory fine of
$1,000 shall be and is mandated, which shall be in addition to any jail
sentence.
   (D)   Violation of regulations. Any person that violates a rule or
regulation of the village’s water and sewer regulations after a non-compliance
order has been issued by the Village Administrator shall be fined $35 for each
day of non-compliance.
(Ord. 15-79, passed 4-2-1979; Res. 12-45, passed 10-2-2012)
CHAPTER 52: STORM WATER UTILITY
Section
Storm Water Charges
   
52.01   Storm water utility charge
Cross-reference:
   Stormwater management, see
Chapter 153
STORM WATER CHARGES
§ 52.01 STORM WATER UTILITY CHARGE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. That part of a property covered by roofs of buildings
or by asphalt, concrete, paving, bricks, patio stones, or other types of
materials that do not allow water to penetrate directly into the ground.
      RESIDENTIAL EQUIVALENCIES. Three thousand two hundred square feet of
impervious surface.
      STORM WATER FACILITIES. Pipes, catch basins, open ditches, roadside
ditches, and related appurtenances, as well as flood control facilities such as
levees, dikes, overflow channels, retention basins and groundwater recharging
basins, which are designed for, used by or serve more than one parcel of land.
   (B)   Charge. There is hereby established a storm water utility charge upon
all real estate within this village, except duly accepted public streets and
property owned by the village. A storm water charge is hereby imposed as
follows:
      (1)   Single-family residential properties containing impervious surface
of 3,200 square feet or less: $1.50 per month.
      (2)   All properties except those described in division (A), including
all multi-family, commercial or industrial properties: $1.50 per month times
the number of residential equivalencies.
   (C)   Collection. The storm water utility charges shall be collected
commencing February 1, 2012, by the Village Fiscal Officer from the owner
required to pay the village water and sanitary sewer charges for the property
except in the cases of multi-family properties where the tenants pay their own
water and sanitary sewer charges, or properties not served by water or sanitary
sewer service, in which case it shall be paid by the owner of the property as
shown on the County Auditor's tax list. This utility charge shall be shown as a
separate amount on all utility bills.
   (D)   Revenue, purpose. All revenue collected under this section shall first
be used to defray the cost of the administration and collection of this utility
charge. The balance shall be deposited in a separate fund known as the Storm
Water Utility Fund and may be used for the planning, design, construction,
maintenance, or repair of storm water facilities within this village and for no
other purpose.
   (E)   Appeal. A person subject to a storm water utility charge under this
section may appeal to the Public Utilities Commission of Council either the
amount of the charge or the liability for the charge.
   (F)   Delinquent penalty. In the event a storm water utility charge levied
under this section is not paid when due, it shall be subject to a delinquent
penalty of 10%. The Village Fiscal Officer may certify the amount of the charge
and penalty to the County Auditor or placement on the tax duplicate as a lien
on the property served in the manner provided by the general laws of the state,
or he or she may collect the amount due in any action at law from the property
owner brought in the name of the village.
   (G)   Regulations; Village Administrator. The Village Administrator is
authorized to adopt regulations not inconsistent with the provisions of this
section as may be necessary to carry out the purpose and intent of this storm
water utility charge system. The Village Administrator shall also cause to be
computed and updated as necessary the monthly fee for all properties within the
village containing impervious surface except single-family residential
property.
   (H)   Alternative actions.
      (1)   The village may allow the use of alternative actions when it
determines that off-site alternatives for comprehensive stormwater management
would result in an improvement of water quality and a reduction of stormwater
quantity. All alternative actions are required to be approved by the Village
Administrator, in consultation with an engineer whose services are provided by
the village, to be permissible. Alternative actions may include but are not
limited to the following:
         (a)   Fees, in an amount specified by the village to be applied to
community-wide stormwater management facilities.
         (b)   Implementation of off-site stormwater management facilities and/
or the retrofit of an existing practice to increase quality and quantity
control.
         (c)   Stream, floodplain, or wetland restoration.
         (d)   Acquisition of conservation easements on protected open space
significantly contributing to stormwater control such as wetland complexes.
      (2)   Such alternatives, in order to be eligible for approval, must meet
the following standards:
         (a)   Achieve the same level of stormwater quantity and quality
control that would be achieved by the on-site controls required under this
regulation.
         (b)   Implemented in the same Hydrologic Unit Code (HUC) 12 watershed
unit as the proposed development project.
         (c)   An inspection and maintenance agreement is established to ensure
operations and treatment in perpetuity.
(Ord. 2011-151, passed 12-6-2011; Ord. 15-2017, passed 2-21-2017; Ord. 32-2017,
passed 6-20-2017)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
72.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
73.   MOTOR VEHICLE CRIMES
      
74.   EQUIPMENT AND LOADS
      
75.   BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
      
76.   PARKING REGULATIONS
OHIO LEGISLATIVE HISTORY REFERENCES – TITLE VII
Ohio Revised Code Section 2022 Basic Code Section
Ohio Revised Code Section   2022 Basic Code Section
2921.331(A) - (C), (E), (F) 70.02
2935.28                     70.08
3767.201                    70.09(A)
3767.99(D)                  70.09(B)
4501.01(LL)                 70.01
4501.01(TT)                 72.061(G)
4503.05                     71.02
4503.11(A), (D)             71.01(B), (G)(2)
4503.111                    71.01(C), (G)(3)
4503.12(A), (D)             71.01(D), (G)(4)
4503.21                     71.01(A), (G)(1)
4503.236                    71.03
4505.18                     71.04
4506.01                     71.45
4506.011                    71.46
4506.03                     71.48(A) - (C), (G)
4506.04                     71.47(A), (B), (D)(1), (D)(2)
4506.05                     71.48(D) - (G)
4506.10(A), (E)             71.49
4506.12(I), (J)             71.47(C), (D)(3)
4506.15                     71.50(A), (D)
4506.17(H), (N)             71.50(B), (D)
4506.19                     71.51
4506.20                     71.52
4506.23                     71.50(C)
4506.99                     71.99
4507.02(A)                  71.22(A)
4507.03                     71.22(B)
4507.04                     71.22(C)
4507.05(F), (I)             71.21(B), (K)
4507.071(B) - (J)           71.21(C) - (K)
4507.213                    71.22(D)
4507.30                     71.20
4507.31                     71.21(A), (K)
4507.321                    71.23
4507.35                     71.26
4507.36                     71.27
4507.99                     71.99
4509.74                     73.33
4510.037                    71.28(C)
                            71.28(D),
4510.04                     71.30(H),
                            71.31(E), 71.32(D)
4510.05                     71.25(A)
4510.11                     71.28(A)
4510.111                    71.28(B)
4510.12                     71.29
4510.14                     71.30(A) - (F)
4510.15                     71.25(B), (C)
4510.16                     71.31(A) - (I)
4510.21                     71.32(A) - (C)
4510.44                     73.08
4511.01                     70.01
4511.03                     70.03
4511.031                    70.38
4511.04                     70.04(A) - (D)
4511.041                    70.04(E)
4511.042                    70.04(F)
4511.05                     70.05
4511.051                    70.06
4511.08                     70.07
4511.12                     70.30
4511.121                    70.30(A), (G)(1)
4511.13                     70.31(B) - (E), (G)(2)
4511.131                    70.32
4511.132                    70.33
4511.14                     70.34
4511.16                     70.35
4511.17                     70.36
4511.18                     70.37
4511.181                    73.01(N)
4511.19(A) - (M)            73.01(A) - (M)
4511.191(A), (D)            73.02(A), (H)
4511.192                    73.02(B) - (G)
4511.194                    73.03
4511.20                     73.05
4511.201                    73.06
4511.202                    73.07
4511.203                    71.24
4511.204                    72.131
4511.205                    72.132
4511.21(A) - (G), (O), (P)  73.10(A) - (G), (I), (K)(1)
4511.211                    73.10(J), (K)(2)
4511.213                    72.120(B) - (D)
4511.214                    73.16(A) - (D)
4511.215                    73.16(E), (F)
4511.216                    73.16(G)
4511.22                     73.11
4511.23                     73.13
4511.24                     73.12
4511.25                     72.001
4511.251                    73.09
4511.26                     72.003
4511.27                     72.004
4511.28                     72.005
4511.29                     72.006
4511.30                     72.007
4511.31                     72.008
4511.32                     72.009
4511.33                     72.010
4511.34                     72.011
4511.35                     72.012
4511.36                     72.013
4511.37                     72.014
4511.38                     72.015
4511.39                     72.016
4511.40                     72.017
4511.41                     72.030
4511.42                     72.031
4511.43                     72.032
4511.431                    72.033(A), (F)
4511.432                    72.033(B) - (F)
4511.44                     72.034
4511.441                    72.035
4511.45                     72.036(A) - (D)
4511.451                    72.037
4511.452                    72.038
4511.454                    72.036(E)
4511.46                     72.039
4511.47                     72.040
4511.48                     72.041
4511.481                    72.060
4511.49                     72.055
4511.491                    72.059
4511.50                     72.056
4511.51                     72.057
4511.511                    72.058
4511.512                    72.061(A) - (F)
4511.513                    72.062
4511.514                    72.063
4511.52                     75.01
4511.521                    75.02
4511.522                    75.03
4511.53                     75.04
4511.54                     75.05
4511.55                     75.06
4511.56                     75.07
4511.60                     72.002
4511.61                     72.075
4511.62                     72.076
4511.63                     72.077
4511.64                     72.078
4511.65                     70.10
4511.66                     76.01
4511.661                    76.02
4511.67                     76.03
4511.68                     76.04
4511.681                    76.06
4511.69                     76.05
4511.70                     72.115
4511.701                    72.116
4511.71                     72.117(A), (C)(1)
4511.711                    72.118(A), (C)
4511.712                    72.119
4511.713                    72.118(B), (C)
4511.714                    72.117(B), (C)(2), (D)
4511.72                     72.120(A), (C)
4511.73                     72.121
4511.74                     72.122(A), (B), (F)(1), (2)
4511.75                     72.090
4511.751                    72.091
4511.76(C), (F), (G)        72.092
4511.761                    72.093
4511.762                    72.094
4511.763                    72.095
4511.764                    72.096
4511.77                     72.097
4511.771                    72.098
4511.772                    72.099
4511.79                     73.04
4511.81(A) - (H), (K), (L)  72.123
4511.82                     72.122(C) - (E), (F)(3)
4511.84                     72.126
4511.85                     72.127
4511.99                     70.99(A)
4511.991                    70.99(B)
4513.02(A), (H)             74.01
4513.021                    74.02
4513.03                     74.03
4513.04                     74.04
4513.05                     74.05
4513.06                     74.06
4513.07                     74.07
4513.071                    74.08
4513.08                     74.09(A)
4513.09                     74.10
4513.10                     74.11(A)
4513.11                     74.12(A) - (I), (K)
4513.111                    74.12(J), (K)
4513.12                     74.13
4513.13                     74.14
4513.14                     74.15
4513.15                     74.16
4513.16                     74.17
4513.17                     74.18(A) - (E), (G)
4513.171                    74.18(F), (G)
4513.18                     74.19
4513.181                    74.20
4513.182                    74.21(A), (B)
4513.19                     74.22
4513.20                     74.23(A)
4513.201                    74.24(A), (B)
4513.202                    74.25(A) - (C)
4513.21                     74.26
4513.22                     74.27
4513.23                     74.28
4513.24                     74.29
4513.241(C) - (J)           74.31(B), (C)(2)
4513.25                     74.30(A)
4513.26                     74.31(A)
4513.261                    74.32
4513.262                    74.33
4513.263                    72.124
4513.27                     74.34(A) - (C)
4513.28                     74.35
4513.29                     74.36(A)
4513.30                     74.51(A)
4513.31                     74.52(A), (B)
4513.32                     74.53(A)
4513.33                     74.54
4513.34                     74.50(A) - (E)
4513.36                     73.15(A), (B)
4513.361                    73.14
4513.50                     74.38(A)
4513.51(A), (B), (D)        74.38(B), (C)
4513.66                     70.12(A) - (C)
4513.68                     70.12(D) - (H)
                            74.11(B),
                            74.21(C),
                            74.23(B),
                            74.24(C),
                            74.25(D),
                            74.30(B),
4513.99                     74.31(C)(1),
                            74.34(D),
                            74.36(B),
                            74.50(F),
                            74.51(B),
                            74.52(C),
                            74.53(B)
4519.01                     75.25
4519.02                     75.34
4519.20                     75.26(A), (B), (D)(1)
4519.22                     75.26(C), (D)(2)
4519.40                     75.27
4519.401                    73.16(H)
4519.41                     75.28
4519.44                     75.29
4519.45                     75.30
4519.46                     75.31
4519.47                     75.32
4519.48                     75.33
4519.66                     75.35
4549.02                     73.30
4549.021                    73.31
4549.03                     73.32
4549.05                     70.11
4549.08                     71.06
4549.081(B), (C)            70.30(F), (G)(3)
4549.10                     71.07
4549.11                     71.01(E), (G)(5)
4549.12                     71.01(F), (G)(6)
4549.18                     71.05
4549.20                     74.39
5577.02                     74.55(A)
5577.03                     74.56(A)
5577.04                     74.56(B)
5577.041                    74.56(C)
5577.042                    74.61(A) - (D)
5577.043                    74.61(E) - (H)
5577.044                    74.61(I) - (K)
5577.045                    74.61(L)
5577.05                     74.57(A) - (H)
5577.06                     74.57(I)
5577.10                     74.58(A), (B)
5577.11                     74.59(A)
5577.12                     74.60
5577.15                     74.53(C)
5577.99(A)                  74.55(B)
5577.99(C)                  74.56(D)(1),
                            74.57(J)
5577.99(D)                  74.58(C)
5577.99(E)                  74.59(B)
5589.08                     72.128(A), (B)
5589.081                    74.37(A) - (C)
5589.99(B)                  72.128(C),
                            74.37(D)
 
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Compliance with order of police officer
   
70.03   Emergency vehicles to proceed cautiously past red or stop signal
   
70.04   Exceptions generally; emergency, public safety and coroner vehicles
exempt
   
70.05   Persons riding or driving animals upon roadways
   
70.06   Prohibitions against pedestrians and slow- moving vehicles on freeways
   
70.07   Use of private property for vehicular travel
   
70.08   Names of persons damaging real property by operation of vehicle to be
provided to owner
   
70.09   Limited access highways; barriers along; vehicles to enter and leave at
designated intersections
   
70.10   Through highways
   
70.11   Officer may remove ignition key
   
70.12   Removal of vehicles after accidents
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.30   Obeying traffic-control devices
   
70.31   Signal lights
   
70.32   Signals over reversible lanes
   
70.33   Ambiguous or non-working traffic signals
   
70.34   Pedestrian-control signals
   
70.35   Unauthorized signs and signals prohibited
   
70.36   Alteration, defacement, or removal prohibited
   
70.37   Unauthorized possession or sale of devices
   
70.38   Signal preemption devices; prohibitions
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Jurisdiction in traffic violations, see §
33.01
Streets and sidewalks, general regulations, see
Chapter 94
Unauthorized use of a motor vehicle, see §
131.09
Unclaimed and abandoned motor vehicles, see
Chapter 95
Statutory reference:
Local traffic regulations, scope and authority, see R.C. § 4511.07
Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
Traffic law photo-monitoring devices, state regulations, see R.C. §§ 4511.092
et seq.
Uniform application and precedence of state traffic laws, see R.C. § 4511.06
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided, the definitions set forth in R.C. § 4501.01
shall apply to this Title,
Chapter 95, and the penal laws of the municipality. For the purpose of this
Title and
Chapter 95, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR. Every self-propelled vehicle designed or used for
drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery, but having no provision for
carrying loads independently of such other vehicles, and used principally for
agricultural purposes.
   ALLEY. A street or highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of
lots or buildings in urban districts, and not intended for the purpose of
through vehicular traffic, and any street or highway that has been declared an
“alley” by the Legislative Authority of the municipality in which the street or
highway is located.
   ARTERIAL STREET. Any United States or state numbered route, controlled-
access highway, or other major radial or circumferential street or highway
designated by local authorities within their respective jurisdictions as part
of a major arterial system of streets or highways.
   BEACON. A highway traffic signal with one or more signal sections that
operate in a flashing mode.
   BICYCLE. Every device, other than a device that is designed solely for use
as a play vehicle by a child, that is propelled solely by human power upon
which a person may ride, and that has two or more wheels, any of which is more
than 14 inches in diameter.
   BUS. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than nine passengers,
and used for the transportation of persons other than in a ridesharing
arrangement, and every motor vehicle, automobile for hire, or funeral car,
other than a taxicab or motor vehicle used in a ridesharing arrangement,
designed and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory fronting upon a street or highway,
including the street or highway, between successive intersections within the
municipality, where 50% or more of the frontage between successive
intersections is occupied by buildings in use for business, or within or
outside the municipality where 50% or more of the frontage for a distance of
300 feet or more is occupied by buildings in use for business, and the
character of the territory is indicated by official traffic-control devices.
   CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE. A motor vehicle that is designed to carry nine or
fewer passengers and is operated for hire pursuant to a prearranged contract
for the transportation of passengers on public roads and highways along a route
under the control of the person hiring the vehicle and not over a defined and
regular route. “Prearranged contract” means an agreement, made in advance of
boarding, to provide transportation from a specific location in an chauffeured
limousine. The term does not include any vehicle that is used exclusively in
the business of funeral directing. (R.C. § 4501.01(LL)) (Rev. 2014)
   CHILD DAY-CARE CENTER. Has the same meaning as set forth in R.C. § 5104.01.
   COMMERCIAL TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle having motive power designed or used
for drawing other vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry any load
thereon, or designed or used for drawing other vehicles while carrying a
portion of the other vehicles, or the load thereon, or both.
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every street or highway in respect to which
owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal right or
access to or from the same except at certain points only and in a manner as may
be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over the street or
highway.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   That part of a roadway at intersections ordinarily included within
the real or projected prolongation of property lines and curb lines or, in the
absence of curbs, the edges of the traversable roadway;
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere,
distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the
surface;
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this definition, there
shall not be a crosswalk where the Legislative Authority has placed signs
indicating no crossing.
   DRIVER. Any person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
   ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a “class 1 electric bicycle”, a “class 2 electric
bicycle”, or a “class 3 electric bicycle” as defined below.
      (1)   CLASS 1 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that
provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide
assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles per hour.
      (2)   CLASS 2 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that may
provide assistance regardless of whether the rider is pedaling and is not
capable of providing assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles
per hour.
      (3)   CLASS 3 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that
provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide
assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 28 miles per hour.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Emergency vehicles of municipal, township or county
departments or public utility corporations, when identified as such as required
by law, the Director of Public Safety, or local authorities, and motor vehicles
when commandeered by a police officer.
   EXPLOSIVES. Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is intended for
the purpose of producing an explosion that contains any oxidizing and
combustible units or other ingredients in such proportions, quantities, or
packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by percussion, or
by a detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause a sudden
generation of highly heated gases, such that the resultant gaseous pressures
are capable of producing destructive effects on contiguous objects, or of
destroying life or limb. Manufactured articles shall not be held to be
explosives when the individual units contain explosives in limited quantities
of such nature or in such packing that it is impossible to procure a
simultaneous or a destructive explosion of the units, to the injury of life,
limb, or property by fire, friction, concussion, percussion, or by a detonator,
such as fixed ammunition for small arms, firecrackers, or safety fuse matches.
   EXPRESSWAY. A divided arterial highway for through traffic with full or
partial control of access with an excess of 50% of all crossroads separated in
grade.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID. Any liquid which has a flash point of 70°F or less, as
determined by a tagliabue or equivalent closed cup test device.
   FREEWAY. A divided multi-lane highway for through traffic with crossroads
separated in grade and with full control of access.
   FUNERAL ESCORT VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, including a funeral hearse, while
used to facilitate the movement of a funeral procession.
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle plus the weight of any load thereon.
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way open to
the use of the public as a thoroughfare for purposes of vehicular travel.
   HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle used in snow and ice removal or road
surface maintenance, including a snow plow, traffic line striper, road sweeper,
mowing machine, asphalt distributing vehicle, or other such vehicle designed
for use in specific highway maintenance activities.
   HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SIGNAL. A power-operated traffic control device by which
traffic is warned or directed to take some specific action. The term does not
include a power-operated sign, steadily illuminated pavement marker, warning
light, or steady burning electric lamp.
   HYBRID BEACON. A type of beacon that is intentionally placed in a dark mode
between periods of operation where no indications are displayed and, when in
operation, displays both steady and flashing traffic control signal
indications.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of
two highways that join one another at, or approximately at, right angles, or
the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways that join at
any other angle might come into conflict. The junction of an alley or driveway
with a roadway or highway does not constitute an intersection unless the
roadway or highway at the junction is controlled by a traffic control device.
      (2)   If a highway includes two roadways that are 30 feet or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway constitutes a separate intersection. If both intersecting highways
include two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then every crossing of any two
roadways of such highways constitutes a separate intersection.
      (3)   At a location controlled by a traffic control signal, regardless of
the distance between the separate intersections as described in division (2) of
this definition:
         (a)   If a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk has not been designated
on the roadway within the median between the separate intersections, the two
intersections and the roadway and median constitute one intersection.
         (b)   Where a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk line is designated
on the roadway on the intersection approach, the area within the crosswalk and
any area beyond the designated stop line or yield line constitute part of the
intersection.
         (c)   Where a crosswalk is designated on a roadway on the departure
from the intersection, the intersection includes the area that extends to the
far side of the crosswalk.
   LANED HIGHWAY. A highway the roadway of which is divided into two or more
clearly marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
   LOCAL AUTHORITIES. Every county, municipal, and other local board or body
having authority to adopt police regulations under the Constitution and laws of
this state.
   LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICE. Means a device weighing less than 100 pounds
that has handlebars, is propelled by an electric motor or human power, and has
an attainable speed on a paved level surface of not more than 20 miles per hour
when propelled by the electric motor.
   MEDIAN. The area between two roadways of a divided highway, measured from
edge of traveled way to edge of traveled way, but excluding turn lanes. The
width of a median may be different between intersections, between interchanges,
and at opposite approaches of the same intersection.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle propelled or drawn by power other than muscular
power or power collected from overhead electric trolley wires, except motorized
bicycles, electric bicycles, road rollers, traction engines, power shovels,
power cranes and other equipment used in construction work, and not designed
for or employed in general highway transportation, hole-digging machinery,
well-drilling machinery, ditch-digging machinery, farm machinery, and trailers
designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage
and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or
highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per
hour or less.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle, other than a tractor, having a seat or
saddle for the use of the operator and designed to travel on not more than
three wheels in contact with the ground, including but not limited to motor
vehicles known as “motor-driven cycle”, “motor scooter”, “autocycle”, “cab-
enclosed motorcycle”, or “motorcycle” without regard to weight or brake
horsepower.
   MOTORIZED BICYCLE or MOPED. Any vehicle having either two tandem wheels or
one wheel in the front and two wheels in the rear, that may be pedaled, and
that is equipped with a helper motor of not more than 50 cubic centimeters
piston displacement that produces not more than one brake horsepower and is
capable of propelling the vehicle at a speed of not greater than 20 miles per
hour on a level surface. The terms do not include an electric bicycle.
   MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR. Any self-propelled vehicle designed for, and used by,
a person with a disability and that is incapable of a speed in excess of eight
miles per hour.
   MULTI-WHEEL AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR. A type of agricultural tractor that has
two or more wheels or tires on each side of one axle at the rear of the
tractor, is designed or used for drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery,
has no provision for carrying loads independently of the drawn vehicles or
machinery, and is used principally for agricultural purposes.
   OPERATE. To cause or have caused movement of a vehicle.
   OPERATOR. Any person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   PARKED or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle upon a street, road, alley,
highway or public ground, whether accompanied or unaccompanied by a driver, but
does not include the temporary standing of a vehicle for the purpose of and
while actually engaged in loading or loading merchandise or passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any natural person afoot. The term includes a personal delivery
device as defined in R.C. § 4511.513 unless the context clearly suggests
otherwise.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, partnership, association or corporation.
   POLE TRAILER. Every trailer or semitrailer attached to the towing vehicle by
means of a reach, pole, or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing
vehicle, and ordinarily used for transporting long or irregular shaped loads
such as poles, pipes, or structural members capable, generally, of sustaining
themselves as beams between the supporting connections.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or
to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   PREDICATE MOTOR VEHICLE OR TRAFFIC OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12, 4511.132,
4511.16, 4511.20, 4511.201, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.22, 4511.23,
4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32,
4511.33, 4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40,
4511.41, 4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.451,
4511.452, 4511.46, 4511.47, 4511.48, 4511.481, 4511.49, 4511.50, 4511.511,
4511.53, 4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.56, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60,
4511.61, 4511.64, 4511.66, 4511.661, 4511.68, 4511.70, 4511.701, 4511.71,
4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, 4511.73, 4511.763, 4511.771, 4511.78, or
4511.84;
      (2)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.17(A)(2), 4511.51(A) through (D), or
4511.74(A);
      (3)   A violation of any provision of R.C. §§ 4511.01 through 4511.76 for
which no penalty otherwise is provided in the section that contains the
provision violated;
      (4)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.214;
      (5)   A violation of a municipal ordinance that is substantially
equivalent to any section or provision set forth or described in division (1),
(2), (3), or (4) of this definition.
   PRIVATE ROAD OPEN TO PUBLIC TRAVEL. A private toll road or road, including
any adjacent sidewalks that generally run parallel to the road, within a
shopping center, airport, sports arena, or other similar business or recreation
facility that is privately owned but where the public is allowed to travel
without access restrictions. The term includes a gated toll road but does not
include a road within a private gated property where access is restricted at
all times, a parking area, a driving aisle within a parking area, or a private
grade crossing.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership used for
vehicular travel by the owner, and those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons.
   PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Any of the following:
      (1)   Ambulances, including private ambulance companies under contract to
a municipality, township, or county, and private ambulances and nontransport
vehicles bearing license plates issued under R.C. § 4503.49;
      (2)   Motor vehicles used by public law enforcement officers or other
persons sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state;
      (3)   Any motor vehicle when properly identified as required by the
Director of Public Safety, when used in response to fire emergency calls or to
provide emergency medical service to ill or injured persons, and when operated
by a duly qualified person who is a member of a volunteer rescue service or a
volunteer fire department, and who is on duty pursuant to the rules or
directives of that service. The State Fire Marshal shall be designated by the
Director of Public Safety as the certifying agency for all public safety
vehicles described herein;
      (4)   Vehicles used by fire departments, including motor vehicles when
used by volunteer firefighters responding to emergency calls in the fire
department service when identified as required by the Director of Public
Safety;
      (5)   Any vehicle used to transport or provide emergency medical service
to an ill or injured person, when certified as a public safety vehicle, shall
be considered such a vehicle when transporting an ill or injured person to a
hospital, regardless of whether such vehicle has already passed a hospital;
      (6)   Vehicles used by the Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit for the
enforcement of orders and rules of the Public Utilities Commission as specified
in R.C. § 5503.34.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property operating upon rails placed
principally on a private right-of- way.
   RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL. Any sign, signal, or device erected by authority of
a public body or official or by a railroad, and intended to give notice of the
presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine or an electric or other motor, with or
without cars coupled thereto, operated by a railroad.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory, not comprising a business district,
fronting on a street or highway, including the street or highway, where, for a
distance of 300 feet or more, the frontage is improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
   RIDESHARING ARRANGEMENT. Includes the transportation of persons in a motor
vehicle where the transportation is incidental to another purpose of a
volunteer driver, and includes arrangements known as carpools, vanpools, and
buspools.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Either of the following, as the context requires:
      (1)   The right of a vehicle or pedestrian to proceed uninterruptedly in
a lawful manner in the direction in which it, he or she is moving, in
preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching from a different
direction into its, his or her path;
      (2)   A general term denoting land, property, or the interest therein,
usually in the configuration of a strip, acquired for or devoted to
transportation purposes. When used in this context, “right-of-way” includes the
roadway, shoulders or berm, ditch, and slopes extending to the right- of-way
limits under the control of the state or local authority.
   ROAD SERVICE VEHICLE. Means wreckers, utility repair vehicles, and state,
county, and municipal service vehicles equipped with visual signals by means of
flashing, rotating, or oscillating lights.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes two or
more separate roadways, the term means any roadway separately, but not all the
roadways collectively.
   RURAL MAIL DELIVERY VEHICLE. Every vehicle used to deliver United States
mail on a rural mail delivery route.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians, and protected or marked or indicated by adequate
signs so as to be plainly visible at all times.
   SCHOOL BUS. Every bus designed for carrying more than nine passengers which
is owned by a public, private, or governmental agency or institution of
learning, and operated for the transportation of children to or from a school
session or a school function, or owned by a private person and operated for
compensation for the transportation of children to or from a school session or
a school function; provided the term does not include a bus operated by a
municipally owned transportation system, a mass transit company operating
exclusively within the territorial limits of a municipality, or within such
limits and the territorial limits of municipalities immediately contiguous to
the municipality, nor a common passenger carrier certified by the Public
Utilities Commission unless the bus is devoted exclusively to the
transportation of children to and from a school session or a school function,
and the term does not include a van or bus used by a licensed child day-care
center or Type A Family Day-Care Home to transport children from the child day-
care center or Type A Family Day-Care Home to a school if the van or bus does
not have more than 15 children in the van or bus at any time.
   SEMITRAILER. Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property
with another and separate motor vehicle so that in operation a part of its own
weight or that of its load, or both, rests upon and is carried by another
vehicle.
   SHARED-USE PATH. A bikeway outside the traveled way and physically separated
from motorized vehicular traffic by an open space or barrier and either within
the highway right-of-way or within an independent alignment. A shared-use path
also may be used by pedestrians, including skaters, joggers, users of manual
and motorized wheelchairs, and other authorized motorized and non- motorized
users. A shared-use path does not include any trail that is intended to be used
primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or other similar uses,
or any other single track or natural surface trail that has historically been
reserved for non-motorized use.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
line of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STANDING. When prohibited, means any halting of a vehicle, even momentarily,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with the directions of a police officer or traffic control device.
   STATE HIGHWAY. A highway under the jurisdiction of the Department of
Transportation, outside the limits of municipalities, provided that the
authority conferred upon the Director of Transportation in R.C. § 5511.01 to
erect state highway route markers and signs directing traffic shall not be
modified by R.C. §§ 4511.01 through 4511.79 and 4511.99.
   STATE ROUTE. Every highway which is designated with an official state route
number and so marked.
   STOP. When required, means a complete cessation of movement.
   STOP INTERSECTION. Any intersection at one or more entrances of which stop
signs are erected.
   STOPPING. When prohibited, means any halting of a vehicle, even momentarily,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with the directions of a police officer or traffic control device.
   STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way open to the
use of the public as a thoroughfare for purposes of vehicular travel.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every street or highway as provided in R.C. § 4511.65, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   THRUWAY. A through highway whose entire roadway is reserved for through
traffic and on which roadway parking is prohibited.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and
other devices, either singly or together, while using for purposes of travel
any highway or private road open to public travel.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. A flagger, sign, signal, marking, or other device
used to regulate, warn, or guide traffic, placed on, over, or adjacent to a
street, highway, private road open to public travel, pedestrian facility, or
shared-use path by authority of a public agency or official having
jurisdiction, or, in the case of a private road open to public travel, by
authority of the private owner or private official having jurisdiction.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. Any highway traffic signal by which traffic is
alternately directed to stop and permitted to proceed.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property
wholly on its own structure, and for being drawn by a motor vehicle, including
any vehicle when formed by or operated as a combination of a semitrailer and a
vehicle of the dolly type, such as that commonly known as a trailer dolly, a
vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production
materials between a local place of storage or supply and the farm when drawn or
towed on a street or highway at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour and a
vehicle designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of
storage and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a
street or highway for a distance of more than ten miles or at a speed of more
than 25 miles per hour.
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers, designed and
used to carry property.
   TYPE A FAMILY DAY-CARE HOME. Has the same meaning as set forth in R.C. §
5104.01.
   URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including any street or
highway which is built up with structures devoted to business, industry, or
dwelling houses situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of
one-quarter of a mile or more, and the character of the territory is indicated
by official traffic-control devices.
   VEHICLE. Every device, including a motorized bicycle and an electric
bicycle, in, upon, or by which any person or property may be transported or
drawn upon a highway, except that the term does not include any motorized
wheelchair, any electric personal assistive mobility device, any low-speed
micromobility device, any personal delivery device as defined in R.C. §
4511.513, any device that is moved by power collected from overhead electric
trolley wires or that is used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, or
any device, other than a bicycle, that is moved by human power.
   WASTE COLLECTION VEHICLE. A vehicle used in the collection of garbage,
refuse, trash, or recyclable materials.
(R.C. § 4511.01) (Rev. 2022)
§ 70.02 COMPLIANCE WITH ORDER OF POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall fail to comply with any lawful order or direction of
any police officer invested with authority to direct, control, or regulate
traffic.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle so as willfully to elude or
flee a police officer after receiving a visible or audible signal from a police
officer to bring the person’s motor vehicle to a stop.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to comply
with an order or signal of a police officer.
      (2)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (C)(4) and (C)(5) of this section,
a violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (C)(5) of this section, a violation
of division (B) of this section is a felony and shall be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier of fact finds by proof
beyond a reasonable doubt that in committing the offense, the offender was
fleeing immediately after the commission of a felony.
      (5)   (a)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a felony and
shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier
of fact finds any of the following by proof beyond a reasonable doubt:
            1.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender was a
proximate cause of serious physical harm to persons or property.
            2.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender caused a
substantial risk of serious physical harm to persons or property.
         (b)   If a police officer pursues an offender who is violating
division (B) of this section and division (C)(5)(a) of this section applies,
the sentencing court, in determining the seriousness of an offender’s conduct
for purposes of sentencing the offender for a violation of division (B) of this
section, shall consider, along with the factors set forth in R.C. §§ 2929.12
and 2929.13 that are required to be considered, all of the following:
            1.   The duration of the pursuit;
            2.   The distance of the pursuit;
            3.   The rate of speed at which the offender operated the motor
vehicle during the pursuit;
            4.   Whether the offender failed to stop for traffic lights or stop
signs during the pursuit;
            5.   The number of traffic lights or stop signs for which the
offender failed to stop during the pursuit;
            6.   Whether the offender operated the motor vehicle during the
pursuit without lighted lights during a time when lighted lights are required;
            7.   Whether the offender committed a moving violation during the
pursuit;
            8.   The number of moving violations the offender committed during
the pursuit;
            9.   Any other relevant factors indicating that the offender’s
conduct is more serious than conduct normally constituting the offense.
   (D)   In addition to any other sanction imposed for a violation of division
(A) of this section or a misdemeanor violation of division (B) of this section,
the court shall impose a class five suspension from the range specified in R.C.
§ 4510.02(A)(5). If the offender previously has been found guilty of an offense
under this section or under R.C. § 2921.331 or any other substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, in addition to any other sanction imposed for
the offense, the court shall impose a class one suspension as described in R.C.
§ 4510.02(A)(1). The court may grant limited driving privileges to the offender
on a suspension imposed for a misdemeanor violation of this section as set
forth in R.C. § 4510.021. No judge shall suspend any portion of the suspension
under a class one suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege
required by this division.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      MOVING VIOLATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2743.70.
      POLICE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 2921.331(A) - (C), (E), (F)) (Rev. 2013)
Cross-reference:
Resisting arrest, see §
136.08
§ 70.03 EMERGENCY VEHICLES TO PROCEED CAUTIOUSLY PAST RED OR STOP SIGNAL.
   (A)   The driver of any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, upon approaching a red or stop signal or any
stop sign, shall slow down as necessary for safety to traffic, but may proceed
cautiously past the red or stop sign or signal with due regard for the safety
of all persons using the street or highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.03) (Rev. 2019)
§ 70.04 EXCEPTIONS GENERALLY; EMERGENCY, PUBLIC SAFETY AND CORONER VEHICLES
EXEMPT.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code, except for §§
73.01 and
73.02, do not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles, and other equipment
while actually engaged in work upon the surface of a highway within an area
designated by traffic-control devices, but apply to those persons and vehicles
when traveling to or from such work.
   (B)   The driver of a highway maintenance vehicle owned by this state or any
political subdivision of this state, while the driver is engaged in the
performance of official duties upon a street or highway, provided the highway
maintenance vehicle is equipped with flashing lights and such other markings as
are required by law and such lights are in operation when the driver and
vehicle are so engaged, shall be exempt from criminal prosecution for
violations of R.C. §§ 4511.22, 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.30,
4511.31, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.66, and 4513.02, and R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, and any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   (1)   This section does not exempt a driver of a highway maintenance
vehicle from civil liability arising from a violation of R.C. § 4511.22,
4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.33, 4511.35,
4511.66, or 4513.02 or R.C. §§ 5577.01 through 5577.09, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   This section does not exempt a driver of a vehicle who is not a
state employee and who is engaged in the transport of highway maintenance
equipment from criminal liability for a violation of R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   As used in this section, ENGAGED IN THE PERFORMANCE OF OFFICIAL DUTIES
includes driving a highway maintenance vehicle to and from the manufacturer or
vehicle maintenance provider and transporting a highway maintenance vehicle,
equipment, or materials to and from a work location.
(R.C. § 4511.04) (Rev. 2018)
   (E)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4511.12, 4511.13, 4511.131, 4511.132,
4511.14, 4511.202, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25, 4511.26,
4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.34,
4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41, 4511.42,
4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59,
4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.62, 4511.66, 4511.68, 4511.681, and 4511.69, and any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, do not apply to the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle if the emergency vehicle or public
safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle and if the driver of the vehicles is giving an audible signal by siren,
exhaust whistle, or bell. This section does not relieve the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.041) (Rev. 2013)
   (F)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29,
4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, and
4511.66, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, do not apply to
a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle
in accordance with R.C. § 4513.171 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. This division does not relieve a coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with
due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.042) (Rev. 1999)
§ 70.05 PERSONS RIDING OR DRIVING ANIMALS UPON ROADWAYS.
   Every person riding, driving, or leading an animal upon a roadway is subject
to the provisions of this traffic code, applicable to the driver of a vehicle,
except those provisions of this traffic code which by their nature are
inapplicable.
(R.C. § 4511.05)
§ 70.06 PROHIBITIONS AGAINST PEDESTRIANS AND SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES ON FREEWAYS.
   (A)   No person, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, shall:
      (1)   As a pedestrian, occupy any space within the limits of the right-
of-way of a freeway, except: in a rest area; on a facility that is separated
from the roadway and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately
marked for pedestrian use; in the performance of public works or official
duties; as a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown of a
motor vehicle; or to obtain assistance;
      (2)   Occupy any space within the limits of the right-of-way of a
freeway, with: an animal-drawn vehicle; a ridden or led animal; herded animals;
a pushcart; a bicycle, except on a facility that is separated from the roadway
and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately marked for
bicycle use; an electric bicycle; a bicycle with motor attached; a motor-driven
cycle with a motor which produces not to exceed five brake horsepower; an
agricultural tractor; farm machinery; except in the performance of public works
or official duties.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.051) (Rev. 2020)
Statutory reference:
Designation of a freeway, see R.C. § 4511.011
§ 70.07 USE OF PRIVATE PROPERTY FOR VEHICULAR TRAVEL.
   The provisions of this traffic code do not prevent the owner of real
property, used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel by permission of
the owner and not as a matter of right, from prohibiting such use or from
requiring additional conditions to those specified in this traffic code, or
otherwise regulating such use as may seem best to the owner.
(R.C. § 4511.08)
§ 70.08 NAMES OF PERSONS DAMAGING REAL PROPERTY BY OPERATION OF VEHICLE TO BE
PROVIDED TO OWNER.
   (A)   As used in this section, MOTOR VEHICLE has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 4501.01.
   (B)   If damage is caused to real property by the operation of a motor
vehicle in, or during the, violation of any section of the Ohio Revised Code or
of any municipal ordinance, the law enforcement agency that investigates the
case, upon request of the real property owner, shall provide the owner with the
names of the persons who are charged with the commission of the offense. If a
request for the names is made, the agency shall provide the names as soon as
possible after the persons are charged with the offense.
   (C)   The personnel of law enforcement agencies who act pursuant to division
(B) of this section in good faith are not liable in damages in a civil action
allegedly arising from their actions taken pursuant to that division. Political
subdivisions and the state are not liable in damages in a civil action
allegedly arising from the actions of personnel of their law enforcement
agencies if the personnel have immunity under this division.
(R.C. § 2935.28)
§ 70.09 LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAYS; BARRIERS ALONG; VEHICLES TO ENTER AND LEAVE AT
DESIGNATED INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall cut, injure, remove, or destroy
any fence or other barrier designed and erected to prevent traffic from
entering or leaving a limited access highway without the permission of the
Director of Transportation, except in a case of emergency where life or
property is in danger. No person, firm or corporation shall cause a vehicle of
any character to enter or leave a limited access highway at any point other
than intersections designated by the Director for such purposes, except in a
case of emergency where life or property is in danger.
(R.C. § 3767.201)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3767.99(D))
§ 70.10 THROUGH HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   All state routes are hereby designated as through highways, provided
that stop signs, yield signs, or traffic- control signals shall be erected at
all intersections with such through highways by the Department of
Transportation as to highways under its jurisdiction and by local authorities
as to highways under their jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this
section. Where two or more state routes that are through highways intersect,
and no traffic-control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall
be erected at one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local
authorities having jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section.
Whenever the Director of Transportation determines on the basis of an
engineering and traffic investigation that stop signs are necessary to stop
traffic on a through highway for safe and efficient operation, nothing in this
section shall be construed to prevent such installations. When circumstances
warrant, the Director also may omit stop signs on roadways intersecting through
highways under his or her jurisdiction. Before the Director either installs or
removes a stop sign under this division, he or she shall give notice, in
writing, of that proposed action to the affected local authority at least 30
days before installing or removing the stop sign.
   (B)   Other streets or highways, or portions thereof, are hereby designated
as through highways if they are within the municipality, if they have a
continuous length of more than one mile between the limits of the street or
highway or portion thereof, and if they have stop or yield signs or traffic-
control signals at the entrances of the majority of intersecting streets or
highways. For purposes of this section, the limits of the street or highway, or
portion thereof, shall be the municipal corporation line, the physical terminus
of the street or highway, or any point on the streets or highway at which
vehicular traffic thereon is required by regulatory signs to stop or yield to
traffic on the intersecting street, provided, that in residence districts, the
municipality may by ordinance designate such street or highway, or portion
thereof, not to be a through highway and thereafter the affected residence
district shall be indicated by official traffic-control devices. Where two or
more through highways designated under this division intersect and no traffic-
control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall be erected at
one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local authorities having
jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section.
   (C)   The Department or local authorities having jurisdiction need not erect
stop signs at intersections they find to be so constructed as to permit traffic
to safely enter a through highway without coming to a stop. Signs shall be
erected at such intersections indicating that the operator of a vehicle shall
yield the right-of-way to or merge with all traffic proceeding on the through
highway.
   (D)   Local authorities, with reference to highways under their
jurisdiction, may designate additional through highways, and shall erect stop
signs, yield signs, or traffic- control signals at all streets and highways
intersecting such through highways, or may designate any intersection as a stop
or yield intersection, and shall erect like signs at one or more entrances to
the intersection.
(R.C. § 4511.65) (Rev. 1999)
§ 70.11 OFFICER MAY REMOVE IGNITION KEY.
   A law enforcement officer may remove the ignition key left in the ignition
switch of an unlocked and unattended motor vehicle parked on a street or
highway. The officer removing the key shall place notification upon the vehicle
detailing his or her name and badge number, the place where the key may be
reclaimed, and the procedure for reclaiming the key. The key shall be returned
to the owner of the motor vehicle upon presentation of proof of ownership.
(R.C. § 4549.05) (Rev. 1999)
§ 70.12 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES AFTER ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   If a motor vehicle accident occurs on any highway, public street, or
other property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel and if any
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property that has been damaged or spilled as
a result of the motor vehicle accident is blocking the highway, street, or
other property or is otherwise endangering public safety, a public safety
official may do either of the following without the consent of the owner but
with the approval of the law enforcement agency conducting any investigation of
the accident:
      (1)   Remove, or order the removal of, the motor vehicle if the motor
vehicle is unoccupied, cargo, or personal property from the portion of the
highway, public street, or property ordinarily used for vehicular travel on the
highway, public street, or other property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel.
      (2)   If the motor vehicle is a commercial motor vehicle, allow the owner
or operator of the vehicle the opportunity to arrange for the removal of the
motor vehicle within a period of time specified by the public safety official.
If the public safety official determines that the motor vehicle cannot be
removed within the specified period of time, the public safety official shall
remove or order the removal of the motor vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, the
Department of Transportation, any employee of the Department of Transportation,
or a public safety official who authorizes or participates in the removal of
any unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property as authorized by
division (A) of this section, regardless of whether the removal is executed by
a private towing service, is not liable for civil damages for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that results from the removal of that
unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property. Further, except as
provided in division (B)(2) of this section, if a public safety official
authorizes, employs, or arranges to have a private towing service remove any
unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property as authorized by division
(A) of this section, that private towing service is not liable for civil
damages for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that results from
the removal of that unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
         (a)   Any person or entity involved in the removal of an unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property pursuant to division (A) of this
section if that removal causes or contributes to the release of a hazardous
material or to structural damage to the roadway;
         (b)   A private towing service that was not authorized, employed, or
arranged by a public safety official to remove an unoccupied motor vehicle,
cargo, or personal property under this section;
         (c)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(d) of this section, a
private towing service that was authorized, employed, or arranged by a public
safety official to perform the removal of the unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo,
or personal property but the private towing service performed the removal in a
negligent manner;
         (d)   A private towing service that was authorized, employed, or
arranged by a public safety official to perform the removal of the unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property that was endangering public safety
but the private towing service performed the removal in a reckless manner.
   (C)   As used in divisions (A) and (B) of this section:
      HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.232.
      PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICIAL. Means any of the following:
         (a)   The sheriff of the county, or the chief of police in the
municipal corporation, township, or township, port authority, or joint police
district, in which the accident occurred;
         (b)   A state highway patrol trooper;
         (c)   The chief of the fire department having jurisdiction where the
accident occurred;
         (d)   A duly authorized subordinate acting on behalf of an official
specified in divisions (a) to (c) of this definition.
(R.C. § 4513.66) (Rev. 2020)
   (D)   If a towing service is removing a motor vehicle, and the removal was
not authorized under R.C. § 4513.60, 4513.601, 4513.61, or 4513.66, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, prior to removing the motor
vehicle, the towing service shall provide a written estimate of the price for
the removal to the operator of the motor vehicle, if requested.
   (E)   The towing service shall ensure that any estimate provided under
division (D) of this section includes the fees, services to be rendered, and
destination of the vehicle.
   (F)   If a towing service fails to provide a written estimate as required by
this section, the towing service shall not charge fees for the towing and
storage of the motor vehicle that exceed 25% of any applicable fees established
by the public utilities commission in rules adopted under R.C. § 4921.25(B)(4)
or, if the vehicle was towed within a municipal corporation that has
established vehicle removal and storage fees, 25% of the fees established by
the municipal corporation.
   (G)   Any storage facility that accepts towed vehicles shall conspicuously
post a notice at the entrance to the storage facility that states the
limitation on fees established under division (F) of this section.
(R.C. § 4513.68) (Rev. 2018)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.30 OBEYING TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   No pedestrian or driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
instructions of any traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code, unless at the time otherwise directed by a
police officer.
      (2)   No provision of this traffic code for which signs are required
shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the
alleged violation, an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently
legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular
section of this traffic code does not state that signs are required, that
section shall be effective even though no signs are erected or in place.
(R.C. § 4511.12(A))
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, any operator
of a commercial motor vehicle, upon approaching a scale location established
for the purpose of determining the weight of the vehicle and its load, shall
comply with any traffic control device or the order of a peace officer
directing the vehicle to proceed to be weighed or otherwise inspected.
      (2)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle, upon bypassing a scale
location in accordance with division (C) of this section, shall comply with an
order of a peace officer to stop the vehicle to verify the use and operation of
an electronic clearance device.
   (C)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle that is equipped with an
electronic clearance device authorized by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol under R.C. § 4549.081 may bypass a scale location, regardless of
the instruction of a traffic control device to enter the scale facility, if
either of the following apply:
      (1)   The in-cab transponder displays a green light or other affirmative
visual signal and also sounds an affirmative audible signal;
      (2)   Any other criterion established by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol is met.
   (D)   Any peace officer may order the operator of a commercial motor vehicle
that bypasses a scale location to stop the vehicle to verify the use and
operation of an electronic clearance device.
   (E)   As used in this section, COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE means any
combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating or an actual gross
vehicle weight of more than 10,000 pounds if the vehicle is used in interstate
or intrastate commerce to transport property and also means any vehicle that is
transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is required pursuant to
49 C.F.R. parts 100 through 180.
(R.C. § 4511.121(A) - (C), (E))
   (F)   No person shall use an electronic clearance device if the device or
its use is not in compliance with rules of the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol.
(R.C. § 4549.081(B))
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. If
the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting activity
is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the offender is
subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.12(B)) (Rev. 2019)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B) of this
section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (B)
of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender commits the offense while
distracted and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the
commission of the offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine
established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.121(D)) (Rev. 2019)
      (3)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.081(C)) (Rev. 2005)
Statutory reference:
Placing traffic-control devices on state highways, permission required, see
R.C. § 4511.10
Traffic-control devices to conform to the state manual and specifications, see
R.C. § 4511.11
Uniform system of traffic-control devices, see R.C. § 4511.09
§ 70.31 SIGNAL LIGHTS.
   Highway traffic signal indications for vehicles and pedestrians shall have
the following meanings:
   (A)   Steady green signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal indication
is permitted to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-turn
movement except as such movement is modified by a lane-use sign, turn
prohibition sign, lane marking, roadway design, separate turn signal
indication, or other traffic control device. Such vehicular traffic, including
vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall yield the
right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
movement to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching
from the opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the
intersection.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal indication, displayed
alone or in combination with another signal indication, is permitted to
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by such
arrow, or such other movement as is permitted by other indications displayed at
the same time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left
or making a u-turn movement, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the
following:
         (a)   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
         (b)   Other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   (a)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication,
as provided in R.C. § 4511.14, pedestrians facing a circular green signal
indication are permitted to proceed across the roadway within any marked or
unmarked associated crosswalk. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection or so close as to create an immediate
hazard at the time that the green signal indication is first displayed.
         (b)   Pedestrians facing a green arrow signal indication, unless
otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or other traffic control
device, shall not cross the roadway.
   (B)   Steady yellow signal indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow signal indication
is thereby warned that the related green movement or the related flashing arrow
movement is being terminated or that a steady red signal indication will be
exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter the
intersection. The provisions governing vehicular operation under the movement
being terminated shall continue to apply while the steady circular yellow
signal indication is displayed.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow arrow signal indication is
thereby warned that the related green arrow movement or the related flashing
arrow movement is being terminated. The provisions governing vehicular
operation under the movement being terminated shall continue to apply while the
steady yellow arrow signal indication is displayed.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal
indication, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic control device, shall not start to
cross the roadway.
   (C)   Steady red signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular red signal
indication, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted
by another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, traffic shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before
entering the intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication
to proceed is displayed except as provided in divisions (C)(1), (C)(2), and (C)
(3) of this section.
         (b)   Except when a traffic control device is in place prohibiting a
turn on red or a steady red arrow signal indication is displayed, vehicular
traffic facing a steady circular red signal indication is permitted, after
stopping, to enter the intersection to turn right, or to turn left from a one-
way street into a one-way street. The right to proceed with the turn shall be
subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a stop
sign.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow signal indication
shall not enter the intersection to make the movement indicated by the arrow
and, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted by
another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before entering the
intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication or other
traffic control device permitting the movement indicated by such red arrow is
displayed.
         (b)   When a traffic control device is in place permitting a turn on a
steady red arrow signal indication, vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow
indication is permitted, after stopping, to enter the intersection to turn
right, or to turn left from a one-way street into a one-way street. The right
to proceed with the turn shall be limited to the direction indicated by the
arrow and shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a
stop at a stop sign.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic control device, pedestrians facing
a steady circular red or steady red arrow signal indication shall not enter the
roadway.
      (4)   Local authorities by ordinance, or the Director of Transportation
on state highways, may prohibit a right or a left turn against a steady red
signal at any intersection, which shall be effective when signs giving notice
thereof are posted at the intersection.
   (D)   Flashing green signal indication. A flashing green signal indication
has no meaning and shall not be used.
   (E)   Flashing yellow signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing
a flashing circular yellow signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter
the intersection to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-
turn movement except as such movement is modified by lane-use signs, turn
prohibition signs, lane markings, roadway design, separate turn signal
indications, or other traffic control devices. Such vehicular traffic,
including vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall
yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing
a flashing yellow arrow signal indication, displayed alone or in combination
with another signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow, or other such
movement as is permitted by other signal indications displayed at the same
time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left or
making a u-turn, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing any flashing yellow signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing yellow signal indication is first displayed.
      (4)   When a flashing circular yellow signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory or warning requirements of the other traffic
control device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently
applicable.
   (F)   Flashing red signal indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing a
flashing circular red signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line; but if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. The right to proceed
shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a
stop sign.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing any flashing red signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing red signal indication is first displayed.
      (3)   When a flashing circular red signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory requirements of the other traffic control
device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently applicable.
Use of this signal indication shall be limited to supplementing stop, do not
enter, or wrong way signs, and to applications where compliance with the
supplemented traffic control device requires a stop at a designated point.
   (G)   In the event an official traffic-control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their nature
can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of
any such sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
   (H)   This section does not apply at railroad grade- crossings. Conduct of
drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade crossings shall be governed by
R.C. §§ 4511.61 and 4511.62.
(R.C. § 4511.13) (Rev. 2014)
§ 70.32 SIGNALS OVER REVERSIBLE LANES.
   The meanings of lane-use control signal indications are as follows:
   (A)   A steady downward green arrow. A road user is permitted to drive in
the lane over which the arrow signal indication is located.
   (B)   A steady yellow “X”. A road user is to prepare to vacate the lane over
which the signal indication is located because a lane control change is being
made to a steady red “X” signal indication.
   (C)   A steady white two-way left-turn arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, but not
for through travel, with the understanding that common use of the lane by
oncoming road users for left turns also is permitted.
   (D)   A steady white one-way left-turn arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, without
opposing turns in the same lane, but not for through travel.
   (E)   A steady red “X”. A road user is not permitted to use the lane over
which the signal indication is located and that this signal indication shall
modify accordingly the meaning of other traffic controls present.
(R.C. § 4511.131) (Rev. 2013)
§ 70.33 AMBIGUOUS OR NON-WORKING TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle who approaches an intersection where traffic
is controlled by traffic control signals shall do all of the following if the
signal facing the driver exhibits no colored lights or colored lighted arrows,
exhibits a combination of such lights or arrows that fails to clearly indicate
the assignment of right-of-way, or, if the vehicle is a bicycle or an electric
bicycle, the signals are otherwise malfunctioning due to the failure of a
vehicle detector to detect the presence of the bicycle or electric bicycle:
      (1)   Stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or, if none, stop
before entering the intersection;
      (2)   Yield the right-of-way to all vehicles in the intersection or
approaching on an intersecting road, if the vehicles will constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways;
      (3)   Exercise ordinary care while proceeding through the intersection.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.132) (Rev. 2020)
§ 70.34 PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words “walk” or
“don’t walk”, or the symbol of a walking person or an upraised palm are in
place, these signals shall indicate the following instructions:
   (A)   A steady walking person signal indication, which symbolizes “walk”,
means that a pedestrian facing the signal indication is permitted to start to
cross the roadway in the direction of the signal indication, possibly in
conflict with turning vehicles. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the walking person
signal indication is first shown.
   (B)   A flashing upraised hand signal indication, which symbolizes “don’t
walk”, means that a pedestrian shall not start to cross the roadway in the
direction of the signal indication, but that any pedestrian who has already
started to cross on a steady walking person signal indication shall proceed to
the far side of the traveled way of the street or highway, unless otherwise
directed by a traffic control device to proceed only to the median of a divided
highway or only to some other island or pedestrian refuge area.
   (C)   A steady upraised hand signal indication means that a pedestrian shall
not enter the roadway in the direction of the signal indication.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the continued
use of pedestrian control signals utilizing the word “wait” if those signals
were installed prior to March 28, 1985.
   (E)   A flashing walking person signal indication has no meaning and shall
not be used.
(R.C. § 4511.14) (Rev. 2013)
§ 70.35 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS AND SIGNALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of
any highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to
be, is an imitation of, or resembles a traffic-control device or railroad sign
or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or hides from
view or interferes with the effectiveness of any traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal, and no person shall place or maintain, nor shall any
public authority permit, upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing
thereon any commercial advertising. This section does not prohibit either the
erection upon private property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful
directional information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for traffic-
control devices, or the erection upon private property of traffic-control
devices by the owner of real property in accordance with R.C. §§ 4511.211 and
4511.432.
      (2)   Every prohibited sign, signal, marking, or device is a public
nuisance, and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway may remove the
same or cause it to be removed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.16) (Rev. 2013)
§ 70.36 ALTERATION, DEFACEMENT, OR REMOVAL PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, without lawful authority, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy, or otherwise improperly
tamper with any traffic-control device, any railroad sign or signal, or any
inscription, shield, or insignia on the device, sign, or signal, or any part of
the device, sign, or signal;
   
      (2)   Knowingly drive upon or over any freshly applied pavement marking
material on the surface of a roadway while the marking material is in an
undried condition, and is marked by flags, markers, signs, or other devices
intended to protect it;
      (3)   Knowingly move, damage, destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper
with a manhole cover.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree. If a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of
this section causes serious physical harm to property that is owned, leased, or
controlled by a state or local authority, the offender is guilty of a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within
one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.17) (Rev. 2013)
§ 70.37 UNAUTHORIZED POSSESSION OR SALE OF DEVICES.
   (A)   As used in this section, TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE means any sign,
traffic control signal or other device conforming to and placed or erected in
accordance with the manual adopted under R.C. § 4511.09 by authority of a
public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic, including signs denoting the names of streets and
highways, but does not mean any pavement marking.
   (B)   No individual shall buy or otherwise possess, or sell, a traffic
control device, except when one of the following applies:
      (1)   In the course of the individual’s employment by the state or a
local authority for the express or implied purpose of manufacturing, providing,
erecting, moving or removing such a traffic control device;
      (2)   In the course of the individual’s employment by any manufacturer of
traffic control devices other than a state or local authority;
      (3)   For the purpose of demonstrating the design and function of a
traffic control device to state or local officials;
      (4)   When the traffic control device has been purchased from the state
or a local authority at a sale of property that is no longer needed or is unfit
for use; or
      (5)   When the traffic control device has been properly purchased from a
manufacturer for use on private property and the person possessing the device
has a sales receipt for the device or other acknowledgment of sale issued by
the manufacturer.
   (C)   This section does not preclude, and shall not be construed as
precluding, prosecution for theft in violation of R.C. § 2913.02, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or for receiving stolen property
in violation of R.C. § 2913.51, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.18) (Rev. 2013)
§ 70.38 SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICES; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall possess a portable signal preemption device.
      (2)   No person shall use a portable signal preemption device to affect
the operation of a traffic-control device.
   (B)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the following
persons and division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to any of the
following persons when responding to an emergency call:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 109.71(A)(1), (A)(12), (A)
(14), or (A)(19);
      (2)   A state highway patrol officer;
      (3)   A person while occupying a public safety vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01(E)(1), (E)(3), or (E)(4).
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, PORTABLE SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICE means a
device that, if activated by a person, is capable of changing a traffic-control
signal to green out of sequence.
(R.C. § 4511.031) (Rev. 2013)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Whoever violates any provision of this traffic code for
which no penalty otherwise is provided in the section violated is guilty of one
of the following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this
section, a minor misdemeanor;
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
      (3)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more predicate motor vehicle or
traffic offenses, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.99) (Rev. 2004)
   (B)   Violations committed while distracted.
      (1)   As used in this section and each section referenced in division (B)
(2) of this section, all of the following apply:
         (a)   “Distracted” means doing either of the following while operating
a vehicle:
            1.   Using a handheld electronic wireless communications device, as
defined in R.C. § 4511.204, except when utilizing any of the following:
               a.   The device’s speakerphone function;
               b.   A wireless technology standard for exchanging data over
short distances;
               c.   A “voice-operated or hands- free” device that allows the
person to use the electronic wireless communications device without the use of
either hand except to activate, deactivate, or initiate a feature or function;
               d.   Any device that is physically or electronically integrated
into the motor vehicle.
            2.   Engaging in any activity that is not necessary to the
operation of a vehicle and impairs, or reasonably would be expected to impair,
the ability of the operator to drive the vehicle safely.
         (b)   “Distracted” does not include operating a motor vehicle while
wearing an earphone or earplug over or in both ears at the same time. A person
who so wears earphones or earplugs may be charged with a violation of R.C. §
4511.84, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
         (c)   “Distracted” does not include conducting any activity while
operating a utility service vehicle or a vehicle for or on behalf of a utility,
provided that the driver of the vehicle is acting in response to an emergency,
power outage, or a circumstance affecting the health or safety of individuals.
As used in this division (B)(1)(c):
            UTILITY means an entity specified in R.C. § 4905.03(A), (C), (D),
(E), or (G).
            UTILITY SERVICE VEHICLE means a vehicle owned or operated by a
utility.
      (2)   If an offender violates R.C. § 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12,
4511.121, 4511.132, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25,
4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33,
4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41,
4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.451, 4511.46, 4511.47,
4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.64,
4511.71, 4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, or 4511.73, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
violation, the offender is subject to the applicable penalty for the violation
and, notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28, is subject to an additional fine of not
more than $100 as follows:
         (a)   1.   Subject to Traffic Rule 13, if a law enforcement officer
issues an offender a ticket, citation, or summons for a violation of any of the
aforementioned sections of the Ohio Revised Code, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that indicates that the offender was distracted
while committing the violation and that the distracting activity was a
contributing factor to the commission of the violation, the offender may enter
a written plea of guilty and waive the offender’s right to contest the ticket,
citation, or summons in a trial provided that the offender pays the total
amount of the fine established for the violation and pays the additional fine
of $100.
            2.   In lieu of payment of the additional fine of $100, the
offender instead may elect to attend a distracted driving safety course, the
duration and contents of which shall be established by the Ohio Director of
Public Safety. If the offender attends and successfully completes the course,
the offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender successfully
completed the course. The offender shall be required to pay the total amount of
the fine established for the violation, but shall not be required to pay the
additional fine of $100, so long as the offender submits to the court both the
offender’s payment in full and such written evidence.
         (b)   1.   If the offender appears in person to contest the ticket,
citation, or summons in a trial and the offender pleads guilty to or is
convicted of the violation, the court, in addition to all other penalties
provided by law, may impose the applicable penalty for the violation and may
impose the additional fine of not more than $100.
            2.   If the court imposes upon the offender the applicable penalty
for the violation and an additional fine of not more than $100, the court shall
inform the offender that, in lieu of payment of the additional fine of not more
than $100, the offender instead may elect to attend the distracted driving
safety course described in division (B)(2)(a) of this section. If the offender
elects the course option and attends and successfully completes the course, the
offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender successfully
completed the course. The offender shall be required to pay the total amount of
the fine established for the violation, but shall not be required to pay the
additional fine of not more than $100, so long as the offender submits to the
court the offender’s payment and such written evidence.
(R.C. § 4511.991) (Rev. 2020)
   (C)   Sentencing. Whoever is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor
or minor misdemeanor shall be sentenced in accordance with §
130.99.
Cross-reference:
Imposing sentence for misdemeanor, see §
130.18
Multiple sentences, see §
130.19
Statutory reference:
Reimbursement for costs of confinement, see R.C. §§ 2929.36 et seq.
CHAPTER 71: LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
Motor Vehicle Licensing
   
71.01   Display of license plates or validation stickers; registration
   
71.02   Improper use of noncommercial motor vehicle
   
71.03   Operating motor vehicle ordered immobilized; forfeiture
   
71.04   Operation or sale without certificate of title
   
71.05   Display of certificate of registration
   
71.06   Use of unauthorized plates
   
71.07   Operating without dealer or manufacturer license plates
Driver’s Licenses
   
71.20   Prohibited acts
   
71.21   Permitting minor to operate vehicle prohibited; temporary instruction
permit; probationary license
   
71.22   License required as driver or commercial driver on public or private
property; nonresident exemption
   
71.23   Employment of a minor to operate a taxicab prohibited
   
71.24   Restriction against owner lending vehicle for use of another
   
71.25   Suspension of driver’s licenses; license suspended by court of record
   
71.26   Display of license
   
71.27   Prohibition against false statements
   
71.28   Driving under suspension or in violation of license restriction
   
71.29   Operating motor vehicle or motorcycle without valid license
   
71.30   Driving under OVI suspension
   
71.31   Driving under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation;
driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension
   
71.32   Failure to reinstate license
Commercial Driver’s Licenses
   
71.45   Definitions
   
71.46   Use of actual gross weight in lieu of rating
   
71.47   Prohibited acts
   
71.48   Prerequisites to operation of commercial motor vehicle
   
71.49   Physical qualification to operate commercial motor vehicles
   
71.50   Criminal offenses
   
71.51   Application of federal regulations
   
71.52   Employment of drivers of commercial vehicles
   
71.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
Commercial driver’s licenses, see R.C. Chapter 4506
Driver’s licenses, see R.C. Chapter 4507
Motor vehicle licensing, see R.C. Chapter 4504
Municipal motor vehicle license tax, see R.C. § 4504.06
Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
Proof of financial responsibility required; civil penalties; peace officers as
agents of Registrar of Motor Vehicles; procedures and rules, see R.C. §§
4509.101 et seq.
Suspension and revocation of driver’s licenses, see R.C. Chapter 4510
Suspension of driver’s licenses; municipal power to suspend for a period not to
exceed time permitted or required by state law, see R.C. § 4510.05
MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSING
§ 71.01 DISPLAY OF LICENSE PLATES OR VALIDATION STICKERS; REGISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   No person who is the owner or operator of a motor vehicle shall
fail to display in plain view on the rear of the motor vehicle a license plate
that displays the distinctive number and registration mark assigned to the
motor vehicle by the Ohio Director of Public Safety, including any county
identification sticker and any validation sticker when required by and issued
under R.C. §§ 4503.19 and 4503.191. However, a commercial tractor shall display
the license plate on the front of the commercial tractor.
      (2)   The license plate shall be securely fastened so as not to swing,
and shall not be covered by any material that obstructs its visibility.
      (3)   No person to whom a temporary motor vehicle license registration
has been issued for the use of a motor vehicle under R.C. § 4503.182, and no
operator of that motor vehicle, shall fail to display the temporary motor
vehicle license registration in plain view from the rear of the vehicle either
in the rear window or on an external rear surface of the motor vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall cover a temporary motor vehicle license
registration by any material that obstructs its visibility.
(R.C. § 4503.21(A)) (Rev. 2022)
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by R.C. §§ 4503.103, 4503.173, 4503.41,
4503.43, and 4503.46, no person who is the owner or chauffeur of a motor
vehicle operated or driven upon the public roads or highways shall fail to file
annually the application for registration or to pay the tax therefor.
(R.C. § 4503.11(A))
   (C)    (1)   Within 30 days of becoming a resident of this state, any person
who owns a motor vehicle operated or driven upon the public roads or highways
shall register the vehicle in this state. If such a person fails to register a
vehicle owned by the person, the person shall not operate any motor vehicle in
this state under a license issued by another state.
      (2)   For purposes of division (C)(1) of this section, RESIDENT means any
person to whom any of the following applies:
         (a)   The person maintains their principal residence in this state and
does not reside in this state as a result of the person’s active service in the
United States armed forces.
         (b)   The person is determined by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles to
be a resident in accordance with standards adopted by the Registrar under R.C.
§ 4507.01.
(R.C. § 4503.111(A), (C)) (Rev. 2016)
   (D)   Upon the transfer of ownership of a motor vehicle, the registration of
the motor vehicle expires, and the original owner immediately shall remove the
license plates from the motor vehicle, except as otherwise provided in R.C. §
4503.12.
(R.C. § 4503.12(A)) (Rev. 2020)
   (E)   No person shall operate or drive upon the highways of this
municipality a motor vehicle acquired from a former owner who has registered
the motor vehicle, while the motor vehicle displays the distinctive number or
identification mark assigned to it upon its original registration.
(R.C. § 4549.11(A)) (Rev. 2004)
   (F)   No person who is the owner of a motor vehicle and a resident of this
state shall operate or drive the motor vehicle upon the highways of this
municipality while it displays a distinctive number or identification mark
issued by or under the authority of another state, without complying with the
laws of this state relating to the registration and identification of motor
vehicles.
(R.C. § 4549.12(A)) (Rev. 2004)
   (G)   (1)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offenses established under division (A) of this section are
strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of
these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply
that any other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability,
is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4503.21(B), (C)) (Rev. 2022)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4503.11(D)) (Rev. 2016)
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offense established under division (G)(3)(a) of this section
is a strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state
for purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
(R.C. § 4503.111(B)) (Rev. 2016)
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4503.12(D)) (Rev. 2020)
      (5)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of
operation of a motor vehicle bearing license plates or an identification mark
issued to another, a minor misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.11(B)) (Rev. 2004)
      (6)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of illegal
operation by a resident of this state of a motor vehicle bearing the
distinctive number or identification mark issued by a foreign jurisdiction, a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.12(B)) (Rev. 2010)
§ 71.02 IMPROPER USE OF NONCOMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall use a motor vehicle registered as a noncommercial
motor vehicle for other than the purposes set forth in R.C. § 4501.01.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4503.05) (Rev. 2004)
§ 71.03 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE ORDERED IMMOBILIZED; FORFEITURE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or permit the operation of a
motor vehicle upon any public or private property used by the public for
vehicular travel or parking knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that
the motor vehicle has been ordered immobilized pursuant to an immobilization
order issued under R.C. § 4503.233.
   (B)   A motor vehicle that is operated by a person during a violation of
division (A) of this section shall be criminally forfeited to the state in
accordance with the procedures contained in R.C. § 4503.234.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 4503.236) (Rev. 2004)
§ 71.04 OPERATION OR SALE WITHOUT CERTIFICATE OF TITLE.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate in this municipality a motor vehicle for which a
certificate of title is required without having that certificate in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 4505 or, if a physical certificate of title has not been
issued for a motor vehicle, operate the motor vehicle in this state knowing
that the ownership information relating to the vehicle has not been entered
into the automated title processing system by a Clerk of a Court of Common
Pleas;
      (2)   Display or display for sale or sell as a dealer or acting on behalf
of a dealer, a motor vehicle without having obtained a manufacturer’s or
importer’s certificate, a certificate of title, or an assignment of a
certificate of title for it as provided in R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title or any certificate of
registration or license plates upon cancellation of the same by the Registrar
of Motor Vehicles and notice of the cancellation as prescribed in R.C. Chapter
4505;
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a Clerk of a Court of
Common Pleas as provided in R.C. Chapter 4505 in case of the destruction or
dismantling or change of a motor vehicle in such respect that it is not the
motor vehicle described in the certificate of title;
      (5)   Violate any rules adopted pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (6)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapters 4505 and 4517, sell
at wholesale a motor vehicle ownership of which is not evidenced by an Ohio
certificate of title, or the current certificate of title issued for the motor
vehicle, or the manufacturer’s certificate of origin, and all title assignments
that evidence the seller’s ownership of the motor vehicle, and an odometer
disclosure statement that complies with R.C. § 4505.06 and subchapter IV of the
“Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act”, 86 Stat. 961 (1972), 15
U.S.C. § 1981;
      (7)   Operate in this state a motor vehicle knowing that the certificate
of title to the vehicle or ownership of the vehicle as otherwise reflected in
the automated title processing system has been canceled.
   (B)   This section does not apply to persons engaged in the business of
warehousing or transporting motor vehicles for the purpose of salvage
disposition.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $200,
imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4505.18) (Rev. 2004)
§ 71.05 DISPLAY OF CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   The operator of a “commercial car”, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, when the commercial car is required to be registered under state law,
shall, when operating the commercial car, trailer or semitrailer on the
streets, roads, or highways of this municipality display inside or on the
vehicle the certificate of registration for the commercial car, trailer or
semitrailer provided for in R.C. § 4503.19, or shall carry the certificate on
the operator’s person and display it upon the demand of any peace officer.
      (2)   Every person operating a commercial car, trailer or semitrailer
required to be registered under state law shall permit the inspection of the
certificate of registration upon demand of any peace officer.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
commercial car certificate of registration violation, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.18) (Rev. 2004)
§ 71.06 USE OF UNAUTHORIZED PLATES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or drive a motor vehicle upon the public roads
and highways in this municipality if it displays a license plate or a
distinctive number or identification mark that meets any of the following
criteria:
      (1)   It is fictitious;
      (2)   It is a counterfeit or an unlawfully made copy of any distinctive
number or identification mark;
      (3)   It belongs to another motor vehicle, provided that this section
does not apply to a motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads and
highways in this municipality when the motor vehicle displays license plates
that originally were issued for a motor vehicle that previously was owned by
the same person who owns the motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads
and highways in this municipality during the 30-day period described in R.C. §
4503.12(A)(4).
   (B)   A person who fails to comply with the transfer of registration
provisions of R.C. § 4503.12 and is charged with a violation of that section
shall not be charged with a violation of this section.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3) of this section is
guilty of operating a motor vehicle bearing an invalid license plate or
identification mark, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and
a misdemeanor of the third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.08) (Rev. 2004)
§ 71.07 OPERATING WITHOUT DEALER OR MANUFACTURER LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated upon a public road or
highway a motor vehicle of a manufacturer or dealer unless the vehicle carries
and displays a placard, except as provided in R.C. § 4503.21, issued by the
Director of Public Safety that displays the registration number of its
manufacturer or dealer.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of illegal
operation of a manufacturer’s or dealer’s motor vehicle, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.10) (Rev. 2021)
DRIVER’S LICENSES
§ 71.20 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Display or cause or permit to be displayed, or possess any
identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit
knowing the same to be fictitious, or to have been canceled, suspended, or
altered;
      (2)   Lend to a person not entitled thereto, or knowingly permit a person
not entitled thereto to use any identification card, driver’s or commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit or commercial driver’s license
temporary instruction permit issued to the person so lending or permitting the
use thereof;
      (3)   Display, or represent as one’s own, any identification card,
driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or
commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit not issued to the
person so displaying the same;
      (4)   Fail to surrender to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, upon the
Registrar’s demand, any identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit that has been suspended or canceled;
      (5)   In any application for an identification card, driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit or any renewal, reprint, or
duplicate thereof, knowingly conceal a material fact or present any physician’s
statement required under R.C. § 4507.08 or 4507.081 when knowing the same to be
false or fictitious.
   (B)   Whoever violates any division of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.30) (Rev. 2022)
Statutory reference:
Use of license to violate liquor laws; suspension; procedures, see R.C. §
4510.33
§ 71.21 PERMITTING MINOR TO OPERATE VEHICLE PROHIBITED; TEMPORARY INSTRUCTION
PERMIT; PROBATIONARY LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall cause or knowingly permit any minor to drive a motor
vehicle upon a highway as an operator, unless the minor has first obtained a
license or permit to drive a motor vehicle under R.C. Chapter 4507.
(R.C. § 4507.31(A))
   (B)   (1)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under R.C. §
4507.05(A) shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking
in violation of the conditions established under R.C. § 4507.05(A).
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this section, no
holder of a temporary instruction permit that is issued under R.C. § 4507.05(A)
and that is issued on or after July 1, 1998, and who has not attained the age
of 18 years, shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking
between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m.
         (b)   The holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under R.C. §
4507.05(A) on or after July 1, 1998, who has not attained the age of 18 years,
may operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or private property
used by the public for purposed of vehicular travel or parking between the
hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. if, at the time of such operation, the holder
is accompanied by the holder’s parent, guardian, or custodian, and the parent,
guardian, or custodian holds a current valid driver’s or commercial driver’s
license issued by this state, is actually occupying a seat beside the permit
holder, and does not have a prohibited concentration of alcohol in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine as provided in R.C. § 4511.19
(A).
(R.C. § 4507.05(F)) (Rev. 2008)
   (C)   (1)   (a)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held
the license for less than 12 months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a
highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. unless
the holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian.
         (b)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held the
license for 12 months or longer shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. unless the
holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian.
      (2)   (a)   Subject to division (E)(1) of this section, division (C)(1)
(a) of this section does not apply to the holder of a probationary driver’s
license who is doing either of the following:
            1.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of midnight and 6:
00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession
written documentation from the holder’s employer.
            2.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the
school the holder attends between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., provided
that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession written documentation
from an appropriate official of the school;
            3.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s
immediate possession written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
         (b)   Division (C)(1)(b) of this section does not apply to the holder
of a probationary driver’s license who is doing either of the following:
            1.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and
5:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession
written documentation from the holder’s employer.
            2.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the
school the holder attends between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m.,
provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession written
documentation from an appropriate official of the school;
            3.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s
immediate possession written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
      (3)   An employer, school official, or official affiliated with a
religious event is not liable in damages in a civil action for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that allegedly arises from, or is related
to, the fact that the employer, school official, or official affiliated with a
religious event provided the holder of a probationary driver’s license with the
written documentation described in division (C)(2) of this section. The
Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall make available at no cost a form to serve as
the written documentation described in division (C)(2) of this section, and
employers, school officials, officials affiliated with religious events, and
holders of probationary driver’s licenses may utilize that form or may choose
to utilize any other written documentation to meet the requirements of that
division.
      (4)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held the
license for less than 12 months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking with more than one person who is not a family member
occupying the vehicle unless the probationary license holder is accompanied by
the probationary license holder’s parent, guardian, or custodian.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a violation of division (C)(1)(a) or
(C)(1)(b) of this section if, at the time of the violation, an emergency
existed that required the holder of the probationary driver’s license to
operate a motor vehicle in violation of division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this
section or the holder was an emancipated minor.
   (E)   (1)   If a person is issued a probationary driver’s license prior to
attaining the age of 17 years and the person pleads guilty to, is convicted of,
or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a moving violation
during the six- month period commencing on the date on which the person is
issued the probationary driver’s license, the court with jurisdiction over the
violation may order that the holder must be accompanied by the holder’s parent
or guardian whenever the holder is operating a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking for a period not to exceed six months or the date the holder
attains the age of 17 years, whichever occurs first.
      (2)   Any person who is subject to the operating restrictions established
under division (E)(1) of this section as a result of a first moving violation
may petition the court for driving privileges without being accompanied by the
holder’s parent or guardian during the period of time determined by the court
under that division. In granting the driving privileges, the court shall
specify the purposes of the privileges and shall issue the person appropriate
forms setting forth the privileges granted. If a person is convicted of, pleads
guilty to, or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a second or
subsequent moving violation, the court with jurisdiction over the violation may
terminate any driving privileges previously granted under this division.
      (3)   No person shall violate any operating restriction imposed under
division (E)(1) or (E)(2) of this section.
   (F)   No holder of a probationary license shall operate a motor vehicle upon
a highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking unless the total number of occupants of the vehicle
does not exceed the total number of occupant restraining devices originally
installed in the motor vehicle by its manufacturer, and each occupant of the
vehicle is wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted
occupant restraining device.
   (G)   A restricted license may be issued to a person who is 14 or 15 years
of age under proof of hardship satisfactory to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether each occupant of the motor vehicle is wearing all of the
available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device as
required by division (F) of this section, or for the sole purpose of issuing a
ticket, citation or summons if that requirement has been or is being violated,
or for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a
violation of that requirement.
   (I)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this
section has been or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a
ticket, citation or summons for such a violation or for causing the arrest or
commencing a prosecution of a person for such a violation.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      FAMILY MEMBER. A family member of a probationary license holder includes
any of the following:
         (a)   A spouse;
         (b)   A child or stepchild;
         (c)   A parent, stepparent, grandparent, or parent-in-law;
         (d)   An aunt or uncle;
         (e)   A sibling, whether of the whole or half blood or by adoption, a
brother-in-law, or a sister-in-law;
         (f)   A son or daughter of the probationary license holder’s
stepparent if the stepparent has not adopted the probationary license holder;
         (g)   An eligible adult, as defined in R.C. § 4507.05.
      MOVING VIOLATION. Means any violation of any statute or ordinance that
regulates the operation of vehicles on the highways or streets. The term does
not include a violation of R.C. § 4513.263 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a violation of any statute or ordinance regulating
pedestrians or the parking of vehicles, vehicle size or load limitations,
vehicle fitness requirements, or vehicle registration.
      OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4513.263.
(R.C. § 4507.071(B) - (I)) (Rev. 2016)
   (K)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.31(B)) (Rev. 2004)
      (2)   Whoever violates divisions (B), (C)(1), (C)(4), (E)(3), or (F) of
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4507.05(I), 4507.071(J)) (Rev. 2010)
§ 71.22 LICENSE REQUIRED AS DRIVER OR COMMERCIAL DRIVER ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE
PROPERTY; NONRESIDENT EXEMPTION.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   No person shall permit the operation of a motor vehicle
upon any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking, knowing the operator does not have a valid
driver’s license issued to the operator by the Registrar of Motor Vehicle or a
deputy registrar under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid commercial driver’s license
issued under R.C. Chapter 4506. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
whoever violates this division is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
         (b)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   No person shall receive a driver’s license, or a motorcycle
operator’s endorsement of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card unless and until the person
surrenders to the Registrar or a deputy registrar all valid licenses, temporary
instruction permits, and identification cards issued to the person by another
jurisdiction recognized by this state.
      (3)   The Registrar shall report the cancellation of a license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card to the issuing authority, together
with information that the license, temporary instruction permit, or
identification card is now issued in this state. The Registrar or a deputy
registrar shall destroy any such license, temporary instruction permit, or
identification card that is not returned to the issuing authority.
      (4)   No person shall possess more than one valid license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card at any time.
(R.C. § 4507.02(A)) (Rev. 2022)
   (B)   (1)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving, or propelling a road roller or road machinery upon a street or highway.
      (2)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving, or propelling any agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a
street or highway at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less.
      (3)   No person shall drive, operate, draw, move, or propel any
agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a street or highway at a
speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless the person has a current, valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (4)   No person having a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator’s endorsement to operate a
motorcycle having three wheels with a motor of not more than 50 cubic
centimeters piston displacement.
      (5)   No person having a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator’s endorsement to operate an
autocycle or a cab-enclosed motorcycle.
      (6)   Every person on active duty in the military or naval forces of the
United States, when furnished with a driver’s permit and when operating an
official motor vehicle in connection with such duty, is exempt from the license
requirements of R.C. Chapters 4506 and 4507. Every person on active duty in the
military or naval forces of the United States or in service with the peace
corps, volunteers in service to America, or the foreign service of the United
States, is exempt from the license requirements of such sections for the period
of the person’s active duty or service and for six months thereafter, provided
such person was a licensee under such sections at the time the person commenced
the person’s active duty or service. This section does not prevent such a
person or the person’s spouse or dependent from making an application, as
provided in R.C. § 4507.10(C), for the renewal of a driver’s license or
motorcycle operator’s endorsement or as provided in R.C. § 4506.14 for the
renewal of a commercial driver’s license during the period of the person’s
active duty or service.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.03) (Rev. 2017)
   (C)   Nonresidents, permitted to drive upon the highways of their own state,
may operate any motor vehicle upon any highway in this state without
examination or license under R.C. §§ 4507.01 through 4507.39, inclusive, upon
condition that such nonresident may be required at any time or place to prove
lawful possession or their right to operate such motor vehicle, and to
establish proper identity.
(R.C. § 4507.04) (Rev. 2004)
   (D)   Surrender of driver’s license from another state.
      (1)   Any person who becomes a resident of this state, within 30 days of
becoming a resident, shall surrender any driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card issued by another state to the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a deputy registrar. If such a person intends to
operate a motor vehicle upon the public roads or highways, the person shall
apply for a temporary instruction permit or driver’s license in this state. If
the person fails to apply for a driver’s license or temporary instruction
permit or within 30 days of becoming a resident, the person shall not operate
any motor vehicle in this state under a license or permit issued by another
state.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (D)(1) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offense established under division (D)(2)(a) of this section
is a strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state
for purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
      (3)   For purposes of division (D)(1) of this section, “resident” means
any person to whom any of the following applies:
         (a)   The person maintains their principal residence in this state and
does not reside in this state as a result of the person’s active service in the
United States armed forces.
         (b)   The person is determined by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles to
be a resident in accordance with standards adopted by the Registrar under R.C.
§ 4507.01.
(R.C. § 4507.213) (Rev. 2022)
§ 71.23 EMPLOYMENT OF A MINOR TO OPERATE A TAXICAB PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the definition of “chauffeur” in R.C. § 4501.01, no
person shall employ any minor for the purpose of operating a taxicab.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4507.321) (Rev. 2004)
§ 71.24 RESTRICTION AGAINST OWNER LENDING VEHICLE FOR USE OF ANOTHER.
   (A)   No person shall permit a motor vehicle owned by the person or under
the person’s control to be driven by another if any of the following apply:
      (1)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person does not have a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or valid nonresident driving privileges;
      (2)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privileges have been suspended or canceled under R.C. Chapter 4510 or
any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (3)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving the motor vehicle would violate any prohibition
contained in R.C. Chapter 4509.
      (4)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving would violate R.C. § 4511.19 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (5)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
vehicle is the subject of an immobilization waiver order issued under R.C. §
4503.235 and the other person is prohibited from operating the vehicle under
that order.
   (B)   Without limiting or precluding the consideration of any other evidence
in determining whether a violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section has occurred, it shall be prima facie evidence that
the offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the operator of the
motor vehicle owned by the offender or under the offender’s control is in a
category described in division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of
this section if any of the following applies:
      (1)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(1), (A)(3), or (A)(5) of this section, the offender and the
operator of the motor vehicle reside in the same household and are related by
consanguinity or affinity.
      (2)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(2) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle reside in the same household, and the offender knows or has reasonable
cause to believe that the operator has been charged with or convicted of any
violation of law or ordinance, or has committed any other act or omission, that
would or could result in the suspension or cancellation of the operator’s
license, permit, or privilege.
      (3)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(4) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle occupied the motor vehicle together at the time of the offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of wrongful entrustment of a
motor vehicle, and shall be punished as provided in divisions (C) to (H) of
this section.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3) of this section is guilty of an
unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the
offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   (a)   If, within three years of a violation of division (A)(1), (A)
(2), or (A)(3) of this section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to
or been convicted of two or more violations of division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)
(3) of this section, R.C. § 4511.203(A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) or (A)(5) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   For any violation of this section, in addition to the penalties
imposed under this Code or R.C. Chapter 2929, the court may impose a class
seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7), and, if
the vehicle involved in the offense is registered in the name of the offender,
the court may order one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) or (C)(3)(c)
of this section, the court may order, for 30 days, the immobilization of the
vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license
plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. §
4503.233.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section, R.C. § 4511.203, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order, for 60 days, the
immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of
that vehicle’s license plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and
enforced under R.C. § 4503.233.
         (c)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section, R.C. § 4511.203, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order the criminal
forfeiture to the state of the vehicle involved in the offense. If issued, the
order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234.
      (4)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order for
criminal forfeiture under division (C)(3)(c) of this section is assigned or
transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in addition to or
independent of any other penalty established by law, the court may fine the
offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the National
Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds from any fine imposed under this
division shall be distributed in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (D)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(C)(3)(a) or (C)(3)(b) of this section, the court shall not release the vehicle
from the immobilization before the termination of the period of immobilization
ordered unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
   (E)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(C)(3)(c) of this section, upon receipt of the order from the court, neither
the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor any deputy registrar shall accept any
application for the registration or transfer of registration of any motor
vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the order. The period of denial
shall be five years after the date the order is issued, unless, during that
five-year period, the court with jurisdiction of the offense that resulted in
the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar of the
termination. If the court terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar,
the Registrar shall take all necessary measures to permit the person to
register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to transfer the
registration of the vehicle.
   (F)   This section does not apply to motor vehicle rental dealers or motor
vehicle leasing dealers, as defined in R.C. § 4549.65.
   (G)   Evidence of a conviction of, plea of guilty to, or adjudication as a
delinquent child for a violation of this section shall not be admissible as
evidence in any civil action that involves the offender or delinquent child who
is the subject of the conviction, plea, or adjudication and that arises from
the wrongful entrustment of a motor vehicle.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, a vehicle is owned by a person if, at
the time of a violation of this section, the vehicle is registered in the
person’s name.
(R.C. § 4511.203) (Rev. 2012)
§ 71.25 SUSPENSION OF DRIVER’S LICENSE; LICENSE SUSPENDED BY COURT OF RECORD.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 4510.07 or in any other
provision of the Ohio Revised Code, whenever an offender is convicted of or
pleads guilty to a violation of any provision of this code that is
substantially equivalent to a provision of the Ohio Revised Code, and a court
is permitted or required to suspend a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit for a violation of that provision, a court, in addition to
any other penalties authorized by law, may suspend the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or non resident operating privileges for
the period of time the court determines appropriate, but the period of
suspension imposed for the violation of the provision of this code shall not
exceed the period of suspension that is permitted or required to be imposed for
the violation of the provision of the Ohio Revised Code to which the provision
of this code is substantially equivalent.
(R.C. § 4510.05) (Rev. 2004)
   (B)   Whenever a person is found guilty under the laws of this state or any
ordinance of any political subdivision of this state, of operating a motor
vehicle in violation of any such law or ordinance relating to reckless
operation, the trial court of any court of record, in addition to or
independent of all other penalties provided by law, may impose a class five
suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(5).
   (C)   Suspension of a commercial driver’s license under this section shall
be concurrent with any period of suspension disqualification under R.C. §
3123.58 or 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from holding a
commercial driver’s license under R.C. § 4506.16 shall be issued a driver’s
license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the commercial
driver’s license was suspended under this section, and no person whose
commercial driver’s license is suspended under this section shall be issued a
driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the suspension.
(R.C. § 4510.15) (Rev. 2005)
§ 71.26 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall display the operator’s driver’s
license, or furnish satisfactory proof that the operator has a driver’s
license, upon demand of any peace officer or of any person damaged or injured
in any collision in which the licensee may be involved. When a demand is
properly made, and the operator has the operator’s driver’s license on or about
the operator’s person, the operator shall not refuse to display the license. A
person’s failure to furnish satisfactory evidence that the person is licensed
under R.C. Chapter 4507 when the person does not have the person’s license on
or about the person’s person shall be prima facie evidence of the person’s not
having obtained a driver’s license.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section,
R.C. § 4507.35, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense
is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.35) (Rev. 2012)
§ 71.27 PROHIBITION AGAINST FALSE STATEMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement to any matter or
thing required by the provisions of this traffic code.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4507.36) (Rev. 2004)
§ 71.28 DRIVING UNDER SUSPENSION OR IN VIOLATION OF LICENSE RESTRICTION.
   (A)   Driving under suspension or in violation of license restriction.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, division (B)
of this section, §
71.31 and in R.C. §§ 4510.111 and 4510.16, no person whose driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended under any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, other than R.C.
Chapter 4509, or under any applicable law in any other jurisdiction in which
the person’s license or permit was issued shall operate any motor vehicle upon
the public roads and highways or upon any public or private property used by
the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking within this municipality
during the period of suspension unless the person is granted limited driving
privileges and is operating the vehicle in accordance with the terms of the
limited driving privileges.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking in this municipality in violation of any restriction of the person’s
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit imposed under R.C. § 4506.10
(D) or 4507.14.
      (3)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under
suspension at the time of the alleged violation of division (A)(1) of this
section or the person operated a motor vehicle in violation of a restriction at
the time of the alleged violation of division (A)(2) of this section. The
person charged with a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section
may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. The court may impose upon the
offender a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. §
4510.02(A)(7).
         (b)   1.   Except as provided in division (A)(4)(b)2. or (A)(4)(b)3.
of this section, the court, in addition to any other penalty that it imposes on
the offender and if the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111
or 4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court, in
addition to or independent of any other sentence that it imposes upon the
offender, may order the immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense
for 30 days and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license plates for 30 days in
accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
            2.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to two violations of this section, or any combination of
two violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to any
other sentence that it imposes on the offender, may order the immobilization of
the vehicle involved in the offense for 60 days and the impoundment of that
vehicle’s license plates for 60 days in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
            3.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, or any
combination of three or more violations of this section or R.C. § 4510.11,
4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the
court, in addition to any other sentence that it imposes on the offender, may
order the criminal forfeiture of the vehicle involved in the offense to the
state.
      (5)   Any order for immobilization and impoundment under this section
shall be issued and enforced under R.C. §§ 4503.233 and 4507.02, as applicable.
The court shall not release a vehicle from immobilization ordered under this
section unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
      (6)   Any order of criminal forfeiture under this section shall be issued
and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234. Upon receipt of the copy of the order from
the court, neither the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor a deputy registrar shall
accept any application for the registration or transfer of registration of any
motor vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the declaration of
forfeiture. The period of registration denial shall be five years after the
date of the order, unless, during that period, the court having jurisdiction of
the offense that led to the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the
Registrar of the termination. The Registrar then shall take necessary measures
to permit the person to register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to
transfer registration of the vehicle.
      (7)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.11) (Rev. 2013)
   (B)   Driving under suspension in violation of other provisions.
      (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking in this municipality whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license
has been suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2151.354, 2151.87, 2935.27, 3123.58,
4301.99, 4510.032, 4510.22, or 4510.33, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
      (2)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (B)(1) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under suspension at the
time of the alleged violation of division (B)(1) of this section. The person
charged with a violation of division (B)(1) of this section may offer evidence
to rebut this prima facie evidence.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
driving under suspension and shall be punished as provided in division (B)(3)
(a) or division (B)(3)(b) of this section.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3)(b) of this
section, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. The offender shall be
sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
         (b)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously
was convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (B)(1)
of this section, or any combination of two or more violations of division (B)
(1) of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or 4510.16, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree, and the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. § 2929.28 in
an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an accident
or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the offender’s
operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing the offense for
which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.111) (Rev. 2015)
   (C)   Repeat traffic offender; point system suspension. Any person whose
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privileges are suspended as a repeat traffic offender under R.C. § 4510.037 and
who, during the suspension, operates any motor vehicle upon any public roads
and highways is guilty of driving under a twelve-point suspension, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. The court shall sentence the offender to a
minimum term of three days in jail. No court shall suspend the first three days
of jail time imposed pursuant to this division.
(R.C. § 4510.037(J)) (Rev. 2012)
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under division
(A) of this section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a
valid permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04) (Rev. 2012)
§ 71.29 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE OR MOTORCYCLE WITHOUT VALID LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   No person, except those expressly exempted under R.C. §§
4507.03, 4507.04, and 4507.05, shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public
road or highway or any public or private property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person
has a valid driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a commercial
driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506.
      (2)   No person, except a person expressly exempted under R.C. §§
4507.03, 4507.04, and 4507.05, shall operate any motorcycle upon a public road
or highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person has a valid
license as a motorcycle operator that was issued upon application by the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. Chapter 4507. The license shall be in
the form of an endorsement, as determined by the Registrar, upon a driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, if the person has a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle, or in the form of a restricted
license as provided in R.C. § 4507.14, if the person does not have a valid
license to operate a motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle.
   (B)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima facie evidence that the person did not have either a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A)(1) of this section or a valid license as a motorcycle operator
either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or a restricted license at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A)(2) of this section. The person charged with a violation of
division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may offer evidence to rebut this
prima facie evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or motorcycle without a valid license and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   If the trier of fact finds that the offender never has held a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license issued by this state or any other
jurisdiction, or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the
offender, if the offender has never held a valid license as a motorcycle
operator, either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or in the form of a restricted license, except as otherwise
provided in this division, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case. If the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the offender, the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license bearing the motorcycle
endorsement or the offender’s restricted license was expired at the time of the
offense, except as otherwise provided in this division, the offense is a minor
misdemeanor. If within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
   (D)   The court shall not impose a license suspension for a first violation
of this section or if more than three years have passed since the offender’s
last violation of R.C. § 4510.12, this section, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (E)   If the offender is sentenced under division (C)(2) of this section, if
within three years of the offense the offender previously was convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one or more violations of R.C. § 4510.12, this section, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and if the offender’s license was
expired for more than six months at the time of the offense, the court may
impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or
nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)
(7).
(R.C. § 4510.12) (Rev. 2012)
§ 71.30 DRIVING UNDER OVI SUSPENSION.
   (A)   No person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege has been suspended under R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191, or 4511.196 or under R.C. § 4510.07 for a conviction of a violation
of a municipal OVI ordinance shall operate any motor vehicle upon the public
roads or highways within this municipality during the period of the suspension.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of driving under OVI
suspension. The court shall sentence the offender under R.C. Chapter 2929,
subject to the differences authorized or required by this section.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this
section, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first degree. The
court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of three consecutive days. The three-day
term shall be imposed, unless, subject to division (C) of this section, the
court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 30 consecutive days of house
arrest with electronic monitoring. A period of house arrest with electronic
monitoring imposed under this division shall not exceed six months. If the
court imposes a mandatory three-day jail term under this division, the court
may impose a jail term in addition to that term, provided that in no case shall
the cumulative jail term imposed for the offense exceed six months;
         (b)   A fine of not less than $250 and not more than $1,000;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, immobilization for 30 days of the
offender’
      (2)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section or one
equivalent offense, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of ten consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28, the court may
sentence the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The 10-
day mandatory jail term shall be imposed unless, subject to division (C) of
this section, the court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 90
consecutive days of house arrest with electronic monitoring. The period of
house arrest with electronic monitoring shall not exceed one year;
         (b)   Notwithstanding the fines provided for in R.C. Chapter 2929, a
fine of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, immobilization of the offender’s
vehicle for 60 days and the impoundment for 60 days of the identification
license plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment
shall be issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (3)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or two or more equivalent offenses, driving under OVI suspension is a
misdemeanor. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of 30 consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28, the court may
sentence the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The
court shall not sentence the offender to a term of house arrest with electronic
monitoring in lieu of the mandatory portion of the jail term;
         (b)   Notwithstanding the fines set forth in R.C. Chapter 2929, a fine
of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, criminal forfeiture to the state
of the offender’s vehicle. The order of criminal forfeiture shall be issued and
enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234. If title to a motor vehicle that
is subject to an order for criminal forfeiture under this division is assigned
or transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, the court may fine
the offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the
National Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds from any fine so imposed
shall be distributed in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (C)   (1)   No court shall impose an alternative sentence of house arrest
with electronic monitoring under division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section
unless, within 60 days of the date of sentencing, the court issues a written
finding on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail
where the offender is required to serve the jail term imposed, the offender
will not be able to begin serving that term within the 60-day period following
the date of sentencing.
      (2)   An offender sentenced under this section to a period of house
arrest with electronic monitoring shall be permitted work release during that
period.
   (D)   Fifty percent of any fine imposed by a court under division (B)(1),
(B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section shall be deposited into the municipal
Indigent Drivers Alcohol Treatment Fund under the control of that court, as
created by the municipality pursuant to R.C. § 4511.191(H).
   (E)   In addition to or independent of all other penalties provided by law
or ordinance, the trial judge of any court of record or the mayor of a mayor’s
court shall impose on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of this section a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
      (1)   When permitted as specified in R.C. § 4510.021, if the court grants
limited driving privileges during a suspension imposed under this section, the
privileges shall be granted on the additional condition that the offender must
display restricted license plates, issued under R.C. § 4503.231, on the vehicle
driven subject to the privileges, except as provided in R.C. § 4503.231(B).
      (2)   A suspension of a commercial driver’s license under this section
shall be concurrent with any period of suspension or disqualification under
R.C. § 3123.58 or R.C. § 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from
holding a commercial driver’s license under R.C. § 4506.16 shall be issued a
driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the
commercial driver’s license was suspended under this section, and no person
whose commercial driver’s license is suspended under this section shall be
issued a driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the
suspension.
   (F)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree under this
section for which the offender is sentenced.
   (G)   As used in this section:
      ELECTRONIC MONITORING. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of a municipal ordinance, law of another state, or
law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to division (A) of
this section;
         (b)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to division (A) of this section.
      JAIL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Means the mandatory term in jail of 3, 10, or 30
consecutive days that must be imposed under division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3)
of this section upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (A) of
this section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
must be served in a jail.
         (b)   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced, or otherwise modified pursuant to any provision
of the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 4510.14) (Rev. 2012)
   (H)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04) (Rev. 2004)
Statutory reference:
Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal forfeiture
of vehicle, see R.C. § 4510.161
§ 71.31 DRIVING UNDER FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY LAW SUSPENSION OR CANCELLATION;
DRIVING UNDER A NONPAYMENT OF JUDGMENT SUSPENSION.
   (A)   No person, whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or temporary
instruction permit or nonresident’s operating privilege has been suspended or
canceled pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4509, shall operate any motor vehicle within
this municipality, or knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to
be operated by another person in the municipality, during the period of the
suspension or cancellation, except as specifically authorized by R.C. Chapter
4509. No person shall operate a motor vehicle within this municipality, or
knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to be operated by
another person in the municipality, during the period in which the person is
required by R.C. § 4509.45 to file and maintain proof of financial
responsibility for a violation of R.C. § 4509.101, unless proof of financial
responsibility is maintained with respect to that vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any public
or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking in this municipality if the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or temporary instruction permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended pursuant to R.C. § 4509.37 or 4509.40 for nonpayment of a
judgment.
   (C)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A) or (B) of this section may be admitted into evidence
as prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under either a
financial responsibility law suspension at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A) of this section or a nonpayment of judgment suspension at the time
of the alleged violation of division (B) of this section. The person charged
with a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section may offer evidence to
rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of driving
under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation and shall be
punished as provided in this division (D). Whoever violates division (B) of
this section is guilty of driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension and
shall be punished as provided in this division (D).
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(2) of this section,
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified
misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously was
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section, or
any combination of two violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or
4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (3)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. § 2929.28 in
an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an accident
or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the offender’s
operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing the offense for
which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.16) (Rev. 2015)
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04) (Rev. 2020)
Statutory reference:
Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal forfeiture
of vehicle, see R.C. § 4510.161
§ 71.32 FAILURE TO REINSTATE LICENSE.
   (A)   No person whose driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, or nonresident’s operating privilege has been
suspended shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public road or highway or any
public or private property after the suspension has expired unless the person
has complied with all license reinstatement requirements imposed by the court,
the bureau of motor vehicles, or another provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (B)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the license of the person had not been reinstated by
the person at the time of the alleged violation of division (A) of this
section. The person charged with a violation of division (A) of this section
may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to reinstate a
license, and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of a violation of division (A) of this
section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of two
or more violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.21 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   In all cases, the court may impose upon the offender a class seven
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
(R.C. § 4510.21) (Rev. 2012)
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04) (Rev. 2004)
COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSES
§ 71.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL CONCENTRATION. The concentration of alcohol in a person’s blood,
breath or urine. When expressed as a percentage, it means grams of alcohol per
the following: 100 milliliters of whole blood, blood serum, or blood plasma;
210 liters of breath; or 100 milliliters of urine.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE. A license issued in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 4506 that authorizes an individual to drive a commercial motor vehicle.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE INFORMATION SYSTEM. The information system
established pursuant to the requirements of the “Commercial Motor Vehicle
Safety Act of 1986", 100 Stat. 3207-171, 49 U.S.C. App. 2701.
   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Except when used in R.C. § 4506.25, any motor
vehicle designed or used to transport persons or property that meets any of the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Any combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight or combined
gross vehicle weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more, provided that the gross
vehicle weight or gross vehicle weight rating of the vehicle or vehicles being
towed is in excess of 10,000 pounds;
      (2)   Any single vehicle with a gross vehicle weight or gross vehicle
weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more;
      (3)   Any single vehicle or combination of vehicles that is not a Class A
or Class B vehicle, but is designed to transport 16 or more passengers
including the driver;
      (4)   Any school bus with a gross vehicle weight or gross vehicle weight
rating of less than 26,001 pounds that is designed to transport fewer than 16
passengers including the driver;
      (5)   Is transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is
required under 49 C.F.R. part 172, subpart F, as amended; or
      (6)   Any single vehicle or combination of vehicles that is designed to
be operated and to travel on a public street or highway and is considered by
the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration to be a commercial motor
vehicle, including but not limited to a motorized crane, a vehicle whose
function is to pump cement, a rig for drilling wells, and a portable crane.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Includes all of the following:
      (1)   Any substance classified as a controlled substance under the
“Controlled Substances Act”, 80 Stat. 1242 (1970), 21 U.S.C. § 802(6), as
amended;
      (2)   Any substance included in Schedules I through V of 21 C.F.R. part
1308, as amended;
      (3)   Any drug of abuse.
   CONVICTION. An unvacated adjudication of guilt or a determination that a
person has violated or failed to comply with the law in a court of original
jurisdiction or an authorized administrative tribunal, an unvacated forfeiture
of bail or collateral deposited to secure the person’s appearance in court, a
plea of guilty or nolo contendere accepted by the court, the payment of a fine
or court cost, or violation of a condition of release without bail, regardless
of whether or not the penalty is rebated, suspended or probated.
   DISQUALIFICATION. Means any of the following:
      (1)   The suspension, revocation, or cancellation of a person’s
privileges to operate a commercial motor vehicle;
      (2)   Any withdrawal of a person’s privileges to operate a commercial
motor vehicle as the result of a violation of state or local law relating to
motor vehicle traffic control other than parking, vehicle weight, or vehicle
defect violations;
      (3)   A determination by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
that a person is not qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle under 49
C.F.R. § 391.
   DOMICILED. Having a true, fixed, principal, and permanent residence to which
an individual intends to return.
   DOWNGRADE. Any of the following, as applicable:
      (1)   A change in the commercial driver’s license, or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit, holder’s self-certified status as
described in R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1);
      (2)   A change to a lesser class of vehicle;
      (3)   Removal of commercial driver’s license privileges from the
individual’s driver’s license.
   DRIVE. To drive, operate or be in physical control of a motor vehicle.
   DRIVER. Any person who drives, operates or is in physical control of a
commercial motor vehicle or is required to have a commercial driver’s license.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A license issued by the Bureau of Motor Vehicles that
authorizes an individual to drive.
   DRUG OF ABUSE. Any controlled substance, dangerous drug as defined in R.C. §
4729.01, or over-the- counter medication that, when taken in quantities
exceeding the recommended dosage, can result in impairment of judgment or
reflexes.
   ELECTRONIC DEVICE. Includes a cellular telephone, a personal digital
assistant, a pager, a computer, and any other device used to input, write,
send, receive, or read text.
   ELIGIBLE UNIT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. A village, township, or county that has a
population of not more than 3,000 persons according to the most recent federal
census.
   EMPLOYER. Any person, including the federal government, any state, and a
political subdivision of any state, that owns or leases a commercial motor
vehicle or assigns a person to drive such a motor vehicle.
   ENDORSEMENT. An authorization on a person’s commercial driver’s license that
is required to permit the person to operate a specified type of commercial
motor vehicle.
   FARM TRUCK. A truck controlled and operated by a farmer for use in the
transportation to or from a farm, for a distance of not more than 150 miles, of
products of the farm, including livestock and its products, poultry and its
products, floricultural and horticultural products, and in the transportation
to the farm, from a distance of not more than 150 miles, of supplies for the
farm, including tile, fence and every other thing or commodity used in
agricultural, floricultural, horticultural, livestock, and poultry production,
and livestock, poultry, and other animals and things used for breeding,
feeding, or other purposes connected with the operation of the farm, when the
truck is operated in accordance with this definition and is not used in the
operations of a motor carrier, as defined in R.C. § 4923.01.
   FATALITY. The death of a person as the result of a motor vehicle accident
occurring not more than 365 days prior to the date of death.
   FELONY. Any offense under federal or state law that is punishable by death
or imprisonment for a term exceeding one year and includes any offense
specifically classified as a felony under the law of this state, regardless of
the penalty that may be imposed.
   FOREIGN JURISDICTION. Any jurisdiction other than a state.
   GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING. The value specified by the manufacturer as the
maximum loaded weight of a single or a combination vehicle. The gross vehicle
weight rating of a combination vehicle is the gross vehicle weight rating of
the power unit plus the gross vehicle weight rating of each towed unit.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material that has been designated as hazardous
under 49 U.S.C. § 5103 and is required to be placarded under 49 C.F.R. part
172, subpart F or any quantity of a material listed as a select agent or toxin
in 42 C.F.R. part 73, as amended.
   IMMINENT HAZARD. The existence of a condition that presents a substantial
likelihood that death, serious illness, severe personal injury, or a
substantial endangerment to health, property, or the environment may occur
before the reasonably foreseeable completion date of a formal proceeding begun
to lessen the risk of death, illness, injury, or endangerment.
   MEDICAL VARIANCE. One of the following received by a driver from the Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Administration that allows the driver to be issued a
medical certificate:
      (1)   An exemption letter permitting operation of a commercial motor
vehicle under 49 C.F.R. part 381, subpart C or 49 C.F.R. §
391.64;
      (2)   A skill performance evaluation certificate permitting operation of
a commercial motor vehicle pursuant to 49 C.F.R. §
391.49.
   MOBILE TELEPHONE. A mobile communication device that falls under or uses any
commercial mobile radio service as defined in 47 C.F.R. part 20, except that
mobile telephone does not include two-way or citizens band radio services.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer, or semitrailer
propelled or drawn by mechanical power used on highways, except that such term
does not include a vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer, or semitrailer operated
exclusively on a rail.
   OUT-OF-SERVICE ORDER. A declaration by an authorized enforcement officer of
a federal, state, local, Canadian, or Mexican jurisdiction declaring that the
driver, commercial motor vehicle, or commercial motor carrier operation is out
of service as defined in 49 C.F.R. §
390.5.
   PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
   PORTABLE TANK. A liquid or gaseous packaging designed primarily to be loaded
onto or temporarily attached to a vehicle and equipped with skids, mountings,
or accessories to facilitate handling of the tank by mechanical means.
   PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01(E)(1) and
(E)(3).
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Includes every vehicle that is defined as a
recreational vehicle in R.C. § 4501.01 and is used exclusively for purposes
other than engaging in business for profit.
   RESIDENCE. Any person’s residence determined in accordance with standards
prescribed in the rules adopted by the Registrar.
   SCHOOL BUS. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   SERIOUS TRAFFIC VIOLATION. Any of the following:
      (1)   A conviction arising from a single charge of operating a commercial
motor vehicle in violation of any provision of R.C. § 4506.03;
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (2)(b) of this definition, a
violation while operating a commercial motor vehicle of a law of this state, or
any municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or any other
substantially equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of
another state, prohibiting either of the following:
            1.   Texting while driving;
            2.   Using a handheld mobile telephone.
         (b)   It is not a serious traffic violation if the person was texting
or using a handheld mobile telephone to contact law enforcement or other
emergency services.
      (3)   A conviction arising from the operation of any motor vehicle that
involves any of the following:
         (a)   A single charge of any speed in excess of the posted speed limit
by 15 miles per hour or more;
         (b)   Violations of R.C. § 4511.20 or R.C. § 4511.201 or any
substantially equivalent ordinance or resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state;
         (c)   Violation of a law of this state or an ordinance or resolution
relating to traffic control, other than a parking violation, or of any
substantially equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of
another state, that results in a fatal accident;
         (d)   Violation of R.C. § 4506.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state, that
involves the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver’s license with the proper class or endorsement for the specific vehicle
group being operated or for the passengers or type of cargo being transported;
         (e)   Violation of R.C. § 4506.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state, that
involves the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver’s license being in the person’s possession;
         (f)   Violation of R.C. § 4511.33 or R.C. § 4511.34, or any municipal
ordinance or county or township resolution substantially equivalent to either
of those sections, or any substantially equivalent law of another state or
political subdivision of another state;
         (g)   Violation of any other law of this state, any law of another
state, or any ordinance or resolution of a political subdivision of this state
or another state that meets both of the following requirements:
            1.   It relates to traffic control, other than a parking violation;
            2.   It is determined to be a serious traffic violation by the
United States Secretary of Transportation and is designated by the director as
such by rule.
   STATE. A state of the United States and includes the District of Columbia.
   TANK VEHICLE. Any commercial motor vehicle that is designed to transport any
liquid or gaseous materials within a tank or tanks that are either permanently
or temporarily attached to the vehicle or its chassis and have an individual
rated capacity of more than 119 gallons and an aggregate rated capacity of
1,000 gallons or more. The term does not include a commercial motor vehicle
transporting an empty storage container tank that is not designed for
transportation, has a rated capacity of 1,000 gallons or more, and is
temporarily attached to a flatbed trailer.
   TESTER. Means a person or entity acting pursuant to a valid agreement
entered into pursuant to R.C. § 4506.09(B).
   TEXTING. Manually entering alphanumeric text into, or reading text from, an
electronic device. Texting includes short message service (SMS), e-mail,
instant messaging, a command or request to access a world wide web page,
pressing more than a single button to initiate or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone, or engaging in any other form of
electronic text retrieval or entry, for present or future communication.
Texting does not include the following:
      (1)   Using voice commands to initiate, receive, or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone;
      (2)   Inputting, selecting, or reading information on a global
positioning system or navigation system;
      (3)   Pressing a single button to initiate or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone; or
      (4)   Using, for a purpose that is not otherwise prohibited by law, a
device capable of performing multiple functions, such as a fleet management
system, a dispatching device, a mobile telephone, a citizens band radio, or a
music player.
   TEXTING WHILE DRIVING. Texting while operating a commercial motor vehicle,
with the motor running, including while temporarily stationary because of
traffic, a traffic control device, or other momentary delays. Texting while
driving does not include operating a commercial motor vehicle with or without
the motor running when the driver has moved the vehicle to the side of, or off,
a highway and is stopped in a location where the vehicle can safely remain
stationary.
   UNITED STATES. The 50 states and the District of Columbia.
   UPGRADE. A change in the class of vehicles, endorsements, or self-certified
status as described in R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1) that expands the ability of a
current commercial driver’s license holder to operate commercial motor vehicles
under this chapter or R.C. Chapter 4506.
   USE OF A HANDHELD MOBILE TELEPHONE. Means:
      (1)   Using at least one hand to hold a mobile telephone to conduct a
voice communication;
      (2)   Dialing or answering a mobile telephone by pressing more than a
single button; or
      (3)   Reaching for a mobile telephone in a manner that requires a driver
to maneuver so that the driver is no longer in a seated driving position, or
restrained by a seat belt that is installed in accordance with 49 C.F.R. §
393.93 and adjusted in accordance with the vehicle manufacturer’s instructions.
   VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 4506.01) (Rev. 2016)
§ 71.46 USE OF ACTUAL GROSS WEIGHT IN LIEU OF RATING.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the actual gross weight of a vehicle or
combination of vehicles may be used in lieu of a gross vehicle weight rating to
determine whether a vehicle or combination of vehicles qualifies as a
commercial motor vehicle if the gross vehicle weight rating specified by the
manufacturer for the vehicle of combination of vehicles is not determinable, or
if the manufacturer of the vehicle has not specified a gross vehicle weight
rating.
(R.C. § 4506.011) (Rev. 2006)
§ 71.47 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having in the person’s
possession or otherwise under the person’s control more than one valid driver’s
license issued by this state, any other state, or by a foreign jurisdiction;
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this municipality
in violation of an out-of-service order while the person’s driving privilege is
suspended, revoked, or cancelled, or while the person is subject to
disqualification;
      (3)   Drive a motor vehicle on a highway in the municipality under the
authority of a commercial driver’s license issued by another state or a foreign
jurisdiction, after having been a resident of this state for 30 days or longer;
      (4)   Knowingly give false information in any application or
certification required by R.C. § 4506.07.
   (B)   The municipality shall give every conviction occurring out of this
state and notice of which was received by the state Department of Public Safety
after December 31, 1989, full faith and credit and treat it for sanctioning
purposes under this chapter as though the conviction had occurred in this
state.
(R.C. § 4506.04(A), (B))
   (C)   No person shall drive any commercial motor vehicle for which an
endorsement is required under R.C. § 4506.12 unless the proper endorsement
appears on the person’s commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit. No person shall drive a commercial motor
vehicle in violation of a restriction established under R.C. § 4506.12 that
appears on the person’s commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit.
(R.C. § 4506.12(I)) (Rev. 2016)
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of
falsification, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition, the provisions
of R.C. § 4507.19 apply.
(R.C. § 4506.04(C))
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   The offenses established under division (C) of this section are
strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of
these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply
that any other offense for which there is no specified degree of culpability,
whether in this section or another section of this code or the Ohio Revised
Code, is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4506.12(J)) (Rev. 2016)
§ 71.48 PREREQUISITES TO OPERATION OF COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (B) or (C) of this section, the
following shall apply:
      (1)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in
this state unless the person holds, and has in the person’s possession, any of
the following:
         (a)   A valid commercial driver’s license with proper endorsements for
the motor vehicle being driven, issued by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or by
another jurisdiction recognized by this state;
         (b)   A valid examiner’s commercial driving permit issued under R.C. §
4506.13;
         (c)   A valid restricted commercial driver’s license and waiver for
farm-related service industries issued under R.C. § 4506.24;
         (d)   A valid commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit
issued by the Registrar, provided that the person is accompanied by an
authorized state driver’s license examiner or tester or a person who has been
issued and has in the person’s immediate possession a current, valid commercial
driver’s license and who meets the requirements of R.C. § 4506.06(B).
      (2)   No person’s commercial driver’s license temporary instruction
permit shall be upgraded, and no commercial driver’s license shall be upgraded,
renewed, or issued to a person until the person surrenders to the registrar of
motor vehicles all valid licenses and permits issued to the person by this
state or by another jurisdiction recognized by this state. If the license or
permit was issued by any other state or another jurisdiction recognized by this
state, the Registrar shall report the surrender of a license or permit to the
issuing authority, together with information that a license or permit is now
issued in this state. The Registrar shall destroy any such license or permit
that is not returned to the issuing authority.
      (3)   No person who has been a resident of this state for 30 days or
longer shall drive a commercial motor vehicle under the authority of a
commercial driver’s license issued in another jurisdiction.
   (B)   Nothing in division (A) of this section applies to any qualified
person when engaged in the operation of any of the following:
      (1)   A farm truck;
      (2)   Fire equipment for a fire department, volunteer or nonvolunteer
fire company, fire district, joint fire district, or the State Fire Marshal;
      (3)   A public safety vehicle used to provide transportation or emergency
medical service for ill or injured persons;
      (4)   A recreational vehicle;
      (5)   A commercial motor vehicle within the boundaries of an eligible
unit of local government, if the person is employed by the eligible unit of
local government and is operating the commercial motor vehicle for the purpose
of removing snow or ice from a roadway by plowing, sanding, or salting, but
only if either the employee who holds a commercial driver’s license issued
under R.C. Chapter 4506 and ordinarily operates a commercial motor vehicle for
these purposes is unable to operate the vehicle, or the employing eligible unit
of local government determines that a snow or ice emergency exists that
requires additional assistance;
      (6)   A vehicle operated for military purposes by any member or uniformed
employee of the armed forces of the United States or their reserve components,
including the Ohio National Guard. This exception does not apply to United
States reserve technicians;
      (7)   A commercial motor vehicle that is operated for nonbusiness
purposes. “Operated for nonbusiness purposes” means that the commercial motor
vehicle is not used in commerce as “commerce” is defined in 49 C.F.R. §
383.5, as amended, and is not regulated by the Public Utilities Commission
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4905, 4921, or 4923;
      (8)   A motor vehicle that is designed primarily for the transportation
of goods and not persons, while that motor vehicle is being used for the
occasional transportation of personal property by individuals not for
compensation and not in the furtherance of a commercial enterprise;
      (9)   A police SWAT team vehicle;
      (10)   A police vehicle used to transport prisoners.
   (C)   Nothing contained in division (B)(5) of this section shall be
construed as preempting or superseding any law, rule or regulation of this
state concerning the safe operation of commercial motor vehicles.
(R.C. § 4506.03(A) - (C)) (Rev. 2016)
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a person may drive a
commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this municipality if all of the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The person has a valid commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit issued by any state or
jurisdiction in accordance with the minimum standards adopted by the Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Administration under the “Commercial Motor Vehicle Safety
Act of 1986", 100 Stat. 3207-171, 49 U.S.C. App., for issuance of commercial
driver’s licenses;
      (2)   The person’s commercial driver’s license or temporary instruction
permit is not suspended, revoked, or canceled, and the person has the
appropriate endorsements for the vehicle that is being driven;
      (3)   The person is not disqualified from driving a commercial motor
vehicle;
      (4)   The person is not subject to an out-of- service order;
      (5)   The person is medically certified as physically qualified to
operate a commercial motor vehicle in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4506.
         (a)   A person who submitted a medical examiner’s certificate to the
Registrar in accordance with R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1) and whose medical
certification information is maintained in the commercial driver’s license
information system is not required to have the medical examiner’s certificate
in the person’s possession when on duty.
         (b)   A person whose medical certification information is not
maintained in the commercial driver’s license information system shall have in
the person’s possession when on duty the original or a copy of the current
medical examiner’s certificate that was submitted to the Registrar. However,
the person may operate a commercial motor vehicle with such proof of medical
certification for not more than 15 days after the date the current medical
examiner’s certificate was issued to the person.
         (c)   A person who has a medical variance shall have in the person’s
possession the original or copy of the medical variance documentation at all
times while on duty.
   (E)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this
municipality if the person does not meet the conditions specified in division
(D) of this section.
   (F)   Except as set forth in 49 C.F.R. §§
390.3(f), 391.2, 391.62, 391.67, and 391.68, no person holding a commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit or a commercial driver’s license
issued under R.C. Chapter 4506 may drive a commercial motor vehicle in
interstate commerce until the person is at least 21 years of age.
(R.C. § 4506.05(A) - (C)) (Rev. 2016)
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (2)   The offenses established under divisions (D), (E) and (F) of this
section are strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The
designation of these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be
construed to imply that any other offense, for which there is no specified
degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. §§ 4506.03(D), 4506.05(D)) (Rev. 2016)
§ 71.49 PHYSICAL QUALIFICATION TO OPERATE COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person who holds a valid commercial driver’s license shall drive a
commercial motor vehicle unless the person is physically qualified to do so.
      (1)   Any person applying for a commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit, the renewal or upgrade of a
commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit, or the transfer of a commercial driver’s license from out
of state shall self-certify to the Registrar for purposes of 49 C.F.R. §
383.71 one of the following in regard to the applicant’s operation of a
commercial motor vehicle, as applicable:
         (a)   1.   If the applicant operates or expects to operate a
commercial motor vehicle in interstate or foreign commerce and is subject to
and meets the requirements under 49 C.F.R. part 391, the applicant shall self-
certify that the applicant is non-excepted interstate and shall provide the
Registrar with the original or a copy of a medical examiner’s certificate and
each subsequently issued medical examiner’s certificate prepared by a qualified
medical examiner to maintain a medically certified status on the applicant’s
commercial driver licensing system driver record;
            2.   If the applicant operates or expects to operate a commercial
motor vehicle in interstate commerce, but engages in transportation or
operations excepted under 49 C.F.R. §§
390.3(f), 391.2, 391.68, or 398.3 from all or parts of the qualification
requirements of 49 C.F.R. part 391, the applicant shall self-certify that the
applicant is excepted interstate and is not required to obtain a medical
examiner’s certificate;
         (b)   1.   If the applicant operates only in intrastate commerce and
is subject to state driver qualification requirements, the applicant shall
self-certify that the applicant is non-excepted intrastate;
            2.   If the applicant operates only in intrastate commerce and is
excepted from all or parts of the state driver qualification requirements, the
applicant shall self-certify that the applicant is excepted intrastate.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the expiration date on a person’s commercial
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit,
every commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit holder shall provide the Registrar with the certification
required by this section on or after January 30, 2012, but prior to January 30,
2014.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4506.10(A), (E)) (Rev. 2016)
§ 71.50 CRIMINAL OFFENSES.
   (A)   No person who holds a commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit or who operates a motor vehicle
for which a commercial driver’s license or permit is required shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having a measurable or
detectable amount of alcohol or of a controlled substance in the person’s
blood, breath, or urine;
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of 0.04% or more by whole blood or breath;
      (3)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of .048% or more by blood serum or blood plasma;
      (4)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of .056% or more by urine;
      (5)   Drive a motor vehicle while under the influence of a controlled
substance;
      (6)   Drive a motor vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a municipal
OVI ordinance as defined in R.C. § 4511.181;
      (7)   Use a vehicle in the commission of a felony;
      (8)   Refuse to submit to a test under R.C. § 4506.17 or R.C. § 4511.191,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (9)   Operate a commercial motor vehicle while the person’s commercial
driver’s license or permit or other commercial driving privileges are revoked,
suspended, cancelled, or disqualified;
      (10)   Cause a fatality through the negligent operation of a commercial
motor vehicle, including but not limited to the offenses of aggravated
vehicular homicide, vehicular homicide, and vehicular manslaughter;
      (11)   Fail to stop after an accident in violation of R.C. §§ 4549.02 to
4549.03, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (12)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle in violation of any provision of
R.C. §§ 4511.61 through 4511.63 or any federal or local law or ordinance
pertaining to railroad-highway grade crossings;
      (13)   Use a motor vehicle in the commission of a felony involving the
manufacture, distribution, or dispensing of a controlled substance as defined
in R.C. § 3719.01 or the possession with intent to manufacture, distribute, or
dispense a controlled substance.
(R.C. § 4506.15(A)) (Rev. 2016)
   (B)   No person shall refuse to immediately surrender the person’s
commercial driver’s license or permit to a peace officer when required to do so
by R.C. § 4506.17.
(R.C. § 4506.17(H)) (Rev. 2016)
   (C)   (1)   Within the jurisdictional limits of the appointing authority,
any peace officer shall stop and detain any person found violating division (A)
of this section without obtaining a warrant. When there is reasonable ground to
believe that a violation of division (A) of this section has been committed and
a test or tests of the person’s whole blood, blood plasma or blood serum,
breath or urine is necessary, the peace officer shall take the person to an
appropriate place for testing. If a person refuses to submit to a test after
being warned as provided in R.C. § 4506.17(C), or submits to a test that
discloses the presence of a controlled substance or an alcohol concentration of
0.04% or more by whole blood or breath, an alcohol concentration of .048% or
more by blood serum or blood plasma, or an alcohol concentration of .056% or
more by urine, the peace officer shall require that the person immediately
surrender the person’s commercial driver’s license to the peace officer.
      (2)   As used in this division (C), JURISDICTIONAL LIMITS means the
limits within which a peace officer may arrest and detain a person without a
warrant under R.C. § 2935.03, except that the Superintendent and the troopers
of the State Highway Patrol may stop and detain, without warrant, any person
who, in the presence of the Superintendent or any trooper, is engaged in a
violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter or R.C. Chapter 4506.
(R.C. § 4506.23) (Rev. 2006)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. §§ 4506.15(B), 4506.17(N)) (Rev. 2006)
Statutory reference:
Alcohol or controlled substance testing, disqualification of drivers, see R.C.
§ 4506.17
Disqualification of drivers for violations, see R.C. § 4506.16
§ 71.51 APPLICATION OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of 49 C.F.R. part 383, subpart C (Notification
Requirements and Employer Responsibilities), as amended, shall apply to all
commercial drivers or persons who apply for employment as commercial drivers.
No person shall fail to make a report to the person’s employer as required by
this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4506.19) (Rev. 2004)
§ 71.52 EMPLOYMENT OF DRIVERS OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   Each employer shall require every applicant for employment as a driver
of a commercial vehicle to provide the applicant’s employment history for the
ten years preceding the date the employment application is submitted to the
prospective employer. The following information shall be submitted:
      (1)   A list of the names and addresses of the applicant’s previous
employers for which the applicant was the operator of a commercial motor
vehicle;
      (2)   The dates the applicant was employed by these employers;
      (3)   The reason for leaving each of these employers.
   (B)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize any driver employed by
the employer to drive a commercial motor vehicle during any period in which any
of the following apply:
      (1)   The driver’s commercial driver’s license is suspended, revoked, or
cancelled by any state or a foreign jurisdiction;
      (2)   The driver has lost the privilege to drive, or currently is
disqualified from driving, a commercial motor vehicle in any state or foreign
jurisdiction;
      (3)   The driver, the commercial motor vehicle the driver is driving, or
the motor carrier operation is subject to an out-of-service order in any state
or a foreign jurisdiction;
      (4)   The driver has more than one driver’s license.
   (C)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a
commercial motor vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4506.15.
   (D)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a
commercial motor vehicle if the driver does not hold a valid, current
commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit bearing the proper class or endorsements for the vehicle. No
employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a commercial
motor vehicle in violation of the restrictions on the driver’s commercial
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A), (B) or (D) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 4506.20) (Rev. 2016)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty
otherwise is provided in the section that contains the provision violated is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. §§ 4506.99, 4507.99) (Rev. 2005)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
72.001   Lanes of travel upon roadways
   
72.002   Driving through safety zone
   
72.003   Vehicles traveling in opposite directions
   
72.004   Rules governing overtaking and passing of vehicles
   
72.005   Permission to overtake and pass on the right
   
72.006   Driving to left of center line
   
72.007   Prohibition against driving upon left side of roadway
   
72.008   Hazardous zones
   
72.009   One-way highways and rotary traffic islands
   
72.010   Rules for driving in marked lanes
   
72.011   Space between moving vehicles
   
72.012   Divided roadways
   
72.013   Rules for turns at intersections
   
72.014   U-turns and turning in roadway prohibited
   
72.015   Starting and backing vehicles
   
72.016   Turn and stop signals
   
72.017   Hand and arm signals
Right-of-Way
   
72.030   Right-of-way at intersections
   
72.031   Right-of-way when turning left
   
72.032   Right-of-way at through highways; stop signs; yield signs
   
72.033   Stop at sidewalk area; stop signs on private roads and driveways
   
72.034   Right-of-way on public highway
   
72.035   Pedestrian on sidewalk has right-of-way
   
72.036   Right-of-way of public safety vehicles
   
72.037   Funeral procession has right-of-way
   
72.038   Pedestrians yield right-of-way to public safety vehicle
   
72.039   Pedestrian on crosswalk has right-of-way
   
72.040   Right-of-way yielded to blind person
   
72.041   Right-of-way yielded by pedestrian
Pedestrians
   
72.055   Pedestrian movement in crosswalks
   
72.056   Pedestrian walking along highway
   
72.057   Prohibition against soliciting rides; riding on outside of vehicle
   
72.058   Pedestrian on bridge or railroad crossing
   
72.059   Persons operating motorized wheelchairs
   
72.060   Intoxicated or drugged pedestrian hazard on highway
   
72.061   Operation of electric personal assistive mobility devices
   
72.062   Operation of personal delivery device on sidewalks and crosswalks
   
72.063   Low-speed micromobility devices
Grade Crossings
   
72.075   Stop signs at grade crossings
   
72.076   Driving vehicle across railroad grade crossing
   
72.077   Vehicles required to stop at grade crossings
   
72.078   Slow-moving vehicles or equipment crossing railroad tracks
School Buses
   
72.090   Regulations concerning school buses
   
72.091   Violation of regulations; report; investigation; citation; warning
   
72.092   Restrictions on the operation of school buses
   
72.093   School bus inspection
   
72.094   School bus not used for school purposes
   
72.095   Licensing by Department of Public Safety
   
72.096   Registration and identification of school buses
   
72.097   School bus marking
   
72.098   Flashing light signal lamps
   
72.099   Occupant restraining device for operator
Prohibitions
   
72.115   Obstruction and interference affecting view and control of driver
   
72.116   Occupying travel trailer while in motion
   
72.117   Driving upon closed highway prohibited
   
72.118   Driving upon sidewalk area or paths exclusively for bicycles
   
72.119   Obstructing passage of other vehicles
   
72.120   Following an emergency or public vehicle prohibited; approaching
stationary public safety vehicle and certain other vehicles with caution
   
72.121   Driving over unprotected fire hose
   
72.122   Placing injurious material on highway or depositing litter from motor
vehicle
   
72.123   Transporting child not in child-restraint system prohibited
   
72.124   Occupant restraining devices
   
72.125   Use of engine brakes prohibited
   
72.126   Operating motor vehicle while wearing earphones or earplugs
   
72.127   Chauffeured limousines and livery services
   
72.128   Operating traction engine upon improved highway
   
72.129   Cracking exhaust noises; peeling out
   
72.130   Shortcutting across private property
   
72.131   Texting while driving prohibited
   
72.132   Use of electronic wireless communication devices by minors or
probationary drivers while driving prohibited
Statutory reference:
Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.001 LANES OF TRAVEL UPON ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction, or when making a left turn under the rules governing such movements;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the highway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the highway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   When driving upon a roadway divided into three or more marked lanes
for traffic under the rules applicable thereon;
      (4)   When driving upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for
one-way traffic;
      (5)   When otherwise directed by a police officer or traffic-control
device.
   (B)   (1)   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the
prevailing and lawful speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall be driven in the right-hand lane then available
for traffic, and far enough to the right to allow passing by faster vehicles if
such passing is safe and reasonable, except under any of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction;
         (b)   When preparing for a left turn;
         (c)   When the driver must necessarily drive in a lane other than the
right-hand lane to continue on the driver’s intended route.
      (2)   Nothing in division (B)(1) of this section requires a driver of a
slower vehicle to compromise the driver’s safety to allow overtaking by a
faster vehicle.
   (C)   Upon any roadway having four or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for two-way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the center line of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic-control devices designating certain lanes to the left of the center of
the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use the lanes, or
except as permitted under division (A)(2) of this section. This division shall
not be construed as prohibiting the crossing of the center line in making a
left turn into or from an alley, private road, or driveway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.25) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.002 DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within a safety
zone.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.60) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.003 VEHICLES TRAVELING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   Operators of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass
each other to the right, and upon roadways having width for not more than one
line of traffic in each direction, each operator shall give to the other one-
half of the main traveled portion of the roadway or as nearly one-half as is
reasonably possible.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.26) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.004 RULES GOVERNING OVERTAKING AND PASSING OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction:
      (1)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall, except as provided in division (A)(3) of this
section, signal to the vehicle to be overtaken, shall pass to the left thereof
at a safe distance, and shall not again drive to the right side of the roadway
until safely clear of the overtaken vehicle. When a motor vehicle overtakes and
passes a bicycle or electric bicycle, three feet or greater is considered a
safe passing distance.
      (2)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
operator of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle at the latter’s audible signal, and the operator shall not
increase the speed of the operator’s vehicle until completely passed by the
overtaking vehicle.
      (3)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking and passing another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction on a divided highway as defined in R.C. §
4511.35, a limited access highway as defined in R.C. § 5511.02, or a highway
with four or more traffic lanes is not required to signal audibly to the
vehicle being overtaken and passed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.27) (Rev. 2020)
§ 72.005 PERMISSION TO OVERTAKE AND PASS ON THE RIGHT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass on the right of another
vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
or
      (2)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
two or more lines of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being traveled
by the overtaking vehicle.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle only
under conditions permitting the movement in safety. The movement shall not be
made by driving off the roadway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.28) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.006 DRIVING TO LEFT OF CENTER LINE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left of the center of the roadway in
overtaking and passing traffic proceeding in the same direction, unless the
left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit the overtaking and passing to be completely made
without interfering with the safe operation of any traffic approaching from the
opposite direction or any traffic overtaken. In every event, the overtaking
vehicle must return to an authorized lane of travel as soon as practicable, and
in the event the passing movement involves the use of a lane authorized for the
traffic approaching from the opposite direction, before coming within 200 feet
of any approaching vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.29) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.007 PROHIBITION AGAINST DRIVING UPON LEFT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven upon the left side of the roadway under the
following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway, where the operator’s view is obstructed within such a distance as to
create a hazard in the event traffic might approach from the opposite
direction;
      (2)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct, or tunnel; or
      (3)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection
or railroad grade crossing.
   (B)   This section does not apply to vehicles upon a one-way roadway, upon a
roadway where traffic is lawfully directed to be driven to the left side, or
under the conditions described in R.C. § 4511.25(A)(2) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.30) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.008 HAZARDOUS ZONES.
   (A)   The Department of Transportation may determine those portions of any
state highway where overtaking and passing other traffic or driving to the left
of the center or center line of the roadway would be especially hazardous, and
may, by appropriate signs or markings on the highway, indicate the beginning
and end of such zones. When signs or markings are in place and clearly visible,
every operator of a vehicle shall obey the directions of the signs or markings,
notwithstanding the distances set out in R.C. § 4511.30.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply when all of the following
apply:
      (1)   The slower vehicle is proceeding at less than half the speed of the
speed limit applicable to that location.
      (2)   The faster vehicle is capable of overtaking and passing the slower
vehicle without exceeding the speed limit.
      (3)   There is sufficient clear sight distance to the left of the center
or center line of the roadway to meet the overtaking and passing provisions of
R.C. § 4511.29, considering the speed of the slower vehicle.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.31) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.009 ONE-WAY HIGHWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for one-way
traffic, a vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated.
      (2)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven
only to the right of the rotary traffic island.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.32) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.010 RULES FOR DRIVING IN MARKED LANES.
   (A)   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for traffic, or wherever within the municipality traffic is lawfully
moving in two or more substantially continuous lines in the same direction, the
following rules apply:
      (1)   A vehicle shall be driven, as nearly as is practicable, entirely
within a single lane or line of traffic and shall not be moved from the lane or
line until the driver has first ascertained that the movement can be made with
safety.
      (2)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes and provides for
the two-way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center
lane, except when overtaking and passing another vehicle where the roadway is
clearly visible and the center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance,
or when preparing for a left turn, or where the center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is
proceeding, and is posted with signs to give notice of such allocation.
      (3)   Official signs may be erected directing specified traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction, regardless of the center of the roadway, or restricting
the use of a particular lane to only buses during certain hours or during all
hours, and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of such signs.
      (4)   Official traffic-control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway, and drivers of vehicles shall obey
the directions of every such device.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.33) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.011 SPACE BETWEEN MOVING VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle
more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of
the vehicle and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway.
      (2)   The driver of any truck, or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle,
when traveling upon a roadway outside a business or residence district, shall
maintain a sufficient space, whenever conditions permit, between the vehicle
and another vehicle ahead so an overtaking motor vehicle may enter and occupy
the space without danger. This division does not prevent overtaking and passing
nor does it apply to any lane specially designated for use by trucks.
      (3)   Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business
or residence district in a caravan or motorcade shall maintain a sufficient
space between the vehicles so an overtaking vehicle may enter and occupy the
space without danger. This division shall not apply to funeral processions.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.34) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.012 DIVIDED ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Whenever any highway has been divided into two roadways by an
intervening space, or by a physical barrier, or a clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right-hand roadway, and no vehicle shall be driven over,
across, or within any dividing space, barrier, or section, except through an
opening, crossover, or intersection established by public authority. This
section does not prohibit the occupancy of the dividing space, barrier, or
section for the purpose of an emergency stop, or in compliance with an order of
a police officer.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.35) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.013 RULES FOR TURNS AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall be
governed by the following rules:
      (1)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
center line thereof and by passing to the right of the center line where it
enters the intersection, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn
shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the center line
of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made
in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection.
      (3)   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on
one or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at
any such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand
lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of the
vehicle, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so
as to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left hand lane
of the roadway being entered lawfully available to traffic moving in that lane.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities may cause
markers, buttons, or signs to be placed within or adjacent to intersections,
and thereby require and direct that a different course from that specified in
this section be traveled by vehicles turning at an intersection, and when
markers, buttons, or signs are so placed, no operator of a vehicle shall turn
the vehicle at an intersection other than as directed and required by the
markers, buttons, or signs.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.36) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.014 U-TURNS AND TURNING IN ROADWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4511.13 and division (B) of this section,
no vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any
curve, or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade, if such vehicle
cannot be seen within 500 feet by the driver of any other vehicle approaching
from either direction.
   (B)   The driver of an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, may turn the vehicle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction. This division applies only when the emergency vehicle or
public safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle, and when the driver of the vehicle is giving an audible signal by
siren, exhaust whistle, or bell. This division does not relieve the driver of
an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.37) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.015 STARTING AND BACKING VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or
parked until the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
      (2)   Before backing, operators of vehicles shall give ample warning, and
while backing they shall exercise vigilance not to injure person or property on
the street or highway.
      (3)   No person shall back a motor vehicle on a freeway, except:
         (a)   In a rest area;
         (b)   In the performance of public works or official duties;
         (c)   As a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown
of a motor vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.38) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.016 TURN AND STOP SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall turn a vehicle or move right or left upon a
highway unless and until the person has exercised due care to ascertain that
the movement can be made with reasonable safety, nor without giving an
appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter provided.
      (2)   When required, a signal of intention to turn or move right or left
shall be given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by
the vehicle before turning, except that in the case of a person operating a
bicycle or electric bicycle, the signal shall be made not less than one time
but is not required to be continuous. A bicycle or electric bicycle operator is
not required to make a signal if the bicycle is in a designated turn lane, and
a signal shall not be given when the operator’s hands are needed for the safe
operation of the bicycle or electric bicycle.
      (3)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear, when there is opportunity to
give a signal.
      (4)   Any stop or turn signal required by this section shall be given
either by means of the hand and arm, or by signal lights that clearly indicate
to both approaching and following traffic the intention to turn or move right
or left, except that any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped
with, and the required signal shall be given by, signal lights when the
distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the left outside
limit of the body, cab or load of such motor vehicle exceeds 24 inches, or when
the distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the rear limit
of the body or load thereof exceeds 14 feet, whether a single vehicle or a
combination of vehicles.
      (5)   The signal lights required by this section shall not be flashed on
one side only on a disabled vehicle, flashed as a courtesy or “do pass” signal
to operators of other vehicles approaching from the rear, nor be flashed on one
side only of a parked vehicle except as may be necessary for compliance with
this section.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.39) (Rev. 2020)
§ 72.017 HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, all signals
required by the provisions of this traffic code, when given by hand and arm,
shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in the following manner, and
the signals shall indicate as follows:
      (1)   Left turn, hand and arm extended horizontally;
      (2)   Right turn, hand and arm extended upward;
      (3)   Stop or decrease speed, hand and arm extended downward.
   (B)   As an alternative to division (A)(2) of this section, a person
operating a bicycle or electric bicycle may give a right turn signal by
extending the right hand and arm horizontally and to the right side of the
bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.40) (Rev. 2020)
RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 72.030 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different
streets or highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle
on the left shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (B)   The right-of-way rule declared in division (A) of this section is
modified at through highways and otherwise as stated in this traffic code or
R.C. Chapter 4511.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.41) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.031 RIGHT-OF-WAY WHEN TURNING LEFT.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an
intersection or into an alley, private road, or driveway shall yield the right-
of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within
the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.42) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.032 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT THROUGH HIGHWAYS; STOP SIGNS; YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   Except when directed to proceed by a law enforcement officer, every
driver of a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or, if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering it. After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-
way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so
closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time the driver is
moving across or within the intersection or junction of roadways.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow down to a
speed reasonable for the existing conditions, and if required for safety to
stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none, then at the
point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering it. After
slowing, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways. Whenever a driver is involved in a
collision with a vehicle in the intersection or junction of roadways, after
driving past a yield sign without stopping, the collision shall be prima facie
evidence of the driver’s failure to yield the right-of- way.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.43) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.033 STOP AT SIDEWALK AREA; STOP SIGNS ON PRIVATE ROADS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, building, private
road, or driveway within a business or residence district shall stop the
vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area
extending across the alley, building entrance, road, or driveway, or in the
event there is no sidewalk area, shall stop at the point nearest the street to
be entered where the driver has a view of approaching traffic thereon.
(R.C. § 4511.431(A))
   (B)   The owner of a private road or driveway located in a private
residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units may erect stop signs at
places where the road or driveway intersects with another private road or
driveway in the residential area, in compliance with all of the following
requirements:
      (1)   The stop sign is sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily
observant person and meets the specifications of and is placed in accordance
with the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation pursuant to R.C. §
4511.09;
      (2)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road or
driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road or
driveway that they are entering private property, stop signs have been posted
and must be obeyed, and the signs are enforceable by law enforcement officers
under state law. The sign required by this division, where appropriate, may be
incorporated with the sign required by R.C. § 4511.211(A)(2), or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   The provisions of R.C. § 4511.43(A) and R.C. § 4511.46, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be deemed to apply to the
driver of a vehicle on a private road or driveway where a stop sign is placed
in accordance with division (B) of this section and to a pedestrian crossing
such a road or driveway at an intersection where a stop sign is in place.
   (D)   When a stop sign is placed in accordance with division (B) of this
section, any law enforcement officer may apprehend a person found violating the
stop sign and may stop and charge the person with violating the stop sign.
   (E)   As used in this section, and for the purpose of applying R.C. §
4511.43(A) and R.C. § 4511.46, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, to conduct under this section:
      INTERSECTION. Means:
         (a)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two private roads or driveways which join one another at, or
approximately at, right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling
upon different private roads or driveways joining at any other angle may come
in conflict.
         (b)   Where a private road or driveway includes two roadways 30 feet
or more apart, then every crossing of two roadways of such private roads or
driveways shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
      OWNER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.211.
      PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL AREA CONTAINING 20 OR MORE DWELLING UNITS. Has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.211.
      ROADWAY. Means that portion of a private road or driveway improved,
designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder.
If a private road or driveway includes two or more separate roadways, the term
means any such roadway separately but not all such roadways collectively.
(R.C.§
4511.432(A) - (C), (E))
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. §§ 4511.431(B), 4511.432(D)) (Rev. 2004)
   (G)   If the offender violates division (A) of this section while distracted
and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.431(B)) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.034 RIGHT-OF-WAY ON PUBLIC HIGHWAY.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from any
place other than another roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all traffic
approaching on the roadway to be entered or crossed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender violates division (A) of this section while distracted
and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.44) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.035 PEDESTRIAN ON SIDEWALK HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of- way to any
pedestrian on a sidewalk.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.441) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.036 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the approach of a public safety vehicle or coroner’s vehicle,
equipped with at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible
under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
the vehicle, and the driver is giving an audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle, or bell, no driver of any other vehicle shall fail to yield the right-
of-way, immediately drive if practical to a position parallel to, and as close
as possible to, the right edge or curb of the highway clear of any
intersection, and stop and remain in that position until the public safety
vehicle or coroner’s vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   (B)   This section does not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle or
coroner’s vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons and property upon the highway.
   (C)   This section applies to a coroner’s vehicle only when the vehicle is
operated in accordance with R.C. § 4513.171, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. As used in this section, CORONER’S VEHICLE means a vehicle
used by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator that is equipped
with a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and a siren, exhaust
whistle or bell capable of giving an audible signal.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division or division (E), whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree on a first offense. On a second offense within one year after the first
offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree, and, on
each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 4511.45) (Rev. 2017)
   (E)   (1)   When the failure of a motor vehicle operator to yield the right-
of-way to a public safety vehicle as required by division (A) of this section
impedes the ability of the public safety vehicle to respond to an emergency,
any emergency personnel in the public safety vehicle may report the license
plate number and a general description of the vehicle and the operator of the
vehicle to the law enforcement agency exercising jurisdiction over the area
where the alleged violation occurred.
      (2)   (a)   Upon receipt of a report under division (E)(1) of this
section, the law enforcement agency may conduct an investigation to attempt to
determine or confirm the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation.
         (b)   If the identity of the operator at the time of an alleged
violation of division (A) of this section is established, the law enforcement
agency has probable cause to issue either a written warning or a citation for
that violation, and the agency shall issue a written warning or a citation to
the operator.
         (c)   If the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency may
issue a written warning to the person who owned the vehicle at the time of the
alleged violation. However, in the case of a leased or rented vehicle, the law
enforcement agency shall issue the written warning to the person who leased or
rented the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation.
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section based on a
report filed under division (E)(1) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and shall be fined $150.
         (b)   If a person who is issued a citation for a violation of division
(A) of this section based on a report filed under division (E)(1) of this
section does not enter a written plea of guilty and does not waive the person’s
right to contest the citation but instead appears in person in the proper court
to answer the charge, the trier of fact cannot find beyond a reasonable doubt
that the person committed that violation unless the emergency personnel who
filed the report appears in person in the court and testifies.
      (4)   As used in this division (E):
         LICENSE PLATE. Includes any temporary motor vehicle license
registration issued under R.C. § 4503.182 or similar law of another
jurisdiction.
         PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Does not include an unmarked public safety
vehicle or a vehicle used by a public law enforcement officer or other person
sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state or a vehicle used
by the motor carrier enforcement unit for the enforcement of orders and rules
of the public utilities commission.
(R.C. § 4511.454) (Rev. 2022)
§ 72.037 FUNERAL PROCESSION HAS RIGHT-OF- WAY.
   (A)   As used in this section, FUNERAL PROCESSION means two or more vehicles
accompanying the cremated remains or the body of a deceased person in the
daytime when each of the vehicles has its headlights lighted and is displaying
a purple and white or an orange and white pennant attached to each vehicle in
such a manner as to be clearly visible to traffic approaching from any
direction.
   (B)   Excepting public safety vehicles proceeding in accordance with R.C. §
4511.45 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or when directed
otherwise by a police officer, pedestrians and the operators of all vehicles
shall yield the right-of-way to each vehicle that is a part of a funeral
procession. Whenever the lead vehicle in a funeral procession lawfully enters
an intersection, the remainder of the vehicles in the procession may continue
to follow the lead vehicle through the intersection, notwithstanding any
traffic-control devices or right-of-way provisions of the Ohio Revised Code,
provided that the operator of each vehicle exercises due care to avoid
colliding with any other vehicle or pedestrian.
   (C)   No person shall operate any vehicle as a part of a funeral procession
without having the headlights of the vehicle lighted and without displaying a
purple and white or an orange and white pennant in such a manner as to be
clearly visible to traffic approaching from any direction.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.451) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.038 PEDESTRIANS YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY TO PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of a public safety vehicle, as stated in
R.C. § 4511.45 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, every
pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to the public safety vehicle.
   (B)   This section shall not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle
from the duty to exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.452) (Rev. 2004)
§ 72.039 PEDESTRIAN ON CROSSWALK HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   When traffic-control signals are not in place, not in operation, or
are not clearly assigning the right-of-way, the driver of a vehicle shall yield
the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if need be to so yield, or if
required by R.C. § 4511.132 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is
upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling, or when the
pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite half of the roadway as
to be in danger.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply under the conditions
stated in R.C. § 4511.48(B), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (F)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.46) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.040 RIGHT-OF-WAY YIELDED TO BLIND PERSON.
   (A)   (1)   As used in this section BLIND PERSON or BLIND PEDESTRIAN means a
person having not more than 20/200 visual acuity in the better eye with
correcting lenses, or visual acuity greater than 20/200, but with a limitation
in the fields of vision such that the widest diameter of the visual field
subtends an angle no greater than 20 degrees.
      (2)   The driver of every vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to every
blind pedestrian guided by a guide dog, or carrying a cane which is
predominantly white or metallic in color, with or without a red tip.
   (B)   No person, other than a blind person, while on any public highway,
street, alley, or other public thoroughfare, shall carry a white or metallic
cane, with or without a red tip.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.47) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.041 RIGHT-OF-WAY YIELDED BY PEDESTRIAN.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all traffic upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic- control signals are
in operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
   (D)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic-control devices; and when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic-control devices pertaining to such crossing movements.
   (E)   This section does not relieve the operator of a vehicle from
exercising due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway.
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.48) (Rev. 2004)
PEDESTRIANS
§ 72.055 PEDESTRIAN MOVEMENT IN CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.49) (Rev. 2004)
§ 72.056 PEDESTRIAN WALKING ALONG HIGHWAY.
   (A)   Where a sidewalk is provided and its use is practicable, it shall be
unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where a sidewalk is not available, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall walk only on a shoulder, as far as practicable from the
edge of the roadway.
   (C)   Where neither a sidewalk nor a shoulder is available, any pedestrian
walking along and upon a highway shall walk as near as practicable to an
outside edge of the roadway, and, if on a two-way roadway, shall walk only on
the left side of the roadway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. §§ 4511.13 and 4511.46, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, any pedestrian upon a roadway
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.50) (Rev. 2004)
§ 72.057 PROHIBITION AGAINST SOLICITING RIDES; RIDING ON OUTSIDE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person while on a roadway outside a safety zone shall solicit a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, no person
shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting employment, business, or
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle.
      (2)   The Legislative Authority, by ordinance, may authorize the issuance
of a permit to a charitable organization to allow a person acting on behalf of
the organization to solicit charitable contributions from the occupant of a
vehicle by standing on a highway, other than a freeway as provided in R.C. §
4511.051(A)(1), that is under the jurisdiction of the municipality. The permit
shall be valid for only one period of time, which shall be specified in the
permit, in any calendar year. The Legislative Authority also may specify the
locations where contributions may be solicited and may impose any other
restrictions on or requirements regarding the manner in which the solicitations
are to be conducted that the Legislative Authority considers advisable.
      (3)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section, CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION
means an organization that has received from the Internal Revenue Service a
currently valid ruling or determination letter recognizing the tax-exempt
status of the organization pursuant to IRC § 501(c)(3).
   (C)   No person shall hang onto or ride on the outside of any motor vehicle
while it is moving upon a roadway, except mechanics or test engineers making
repairs or adjustments, or workers performing specialized highway or street
maintenance or construction under authority of a public agency.
   (D)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person to hang onto or ride on
the outside of any motor vehicle while it is moving upon a roadway, except
mechanics or test engineers making repairs or adjustments, or workers
performing specialized highway or street maintenance or construction under
authority of a public agency.
   (E)   No driver of a truck, trailer, or semitrailer shall knowingly permit
any person who has not attained the age of 16 years to ride in the unenclosed
or unroofed cargo storage area of the driver’s vehicle if the vehicle is
traveling faster than 25 miles per hour, unless either of the following
applies:
      (1)   The cargo storage area of the vehicle is equipped with a properly
secured seat to which is attached a seat safety belt that is in compliance with
federal standards for an occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. §
4513.263(A)(2), the seat and seat safety belt were installed at the time the
vehicle was originally assembled, and the person riding in the cargo storage
area is in the seat and is wearing the seat safety belt; or
      (2)   An emergency exists that threatens the life of the driver or the
person being transported in the cargo storage area of the truck, trailer, or
semitrailer.
   (F)   No driver of a truck, trailer, or semitrailer shall permit any person,
except for those workers performing specialized highway or street maintenance
or construction under authority of a public agency, to ride in the cargo
storage area or on a tailgate of the driver’s vehicle while the tailgate is
unlatched.
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
any provision of divisions (A) through (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates any provision of divisions (A) through (D) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates any provision of
divisions (A) through (D) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (E) or (F) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.51) (Rev. 2004)
§ 72.058 PEDESTRIAN ON BRIDGE OR RAILROAD CROSSING.
   (A)   No pedestrian shall enter or remain upon any bridge or approach
thereto beyond the bridge signal, gate, or barrier after a bridge operation
signal indication has been given.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over, or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while the gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.511) (Rev. 2004)
§ 72.059 PERSONS OPERATING MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIRS.
   Every person operating a motorized wheelchair shall have all of the rights
and duties applicable to a pedestrian that are contained in this chapter,
except those provisions which by their nature can have no application.
(R.C. § 4511.491)
§ 72.060 INTOXICATED OR DRUGGED PEDESTRIAN HAZARD ON HIGHWAY.
   (A)   A pedestrian who is under the influence of alcohol, any drug of abuse,
or any combination of them to a degree that renders the pedestrian a hazard
shall not walk or be upon a highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.481) (Rev. 2004)
§ 72.061 OPERATION OF ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Electric personal assistive mobility devices may be operated on
the public streets, highways, sidewalks, and paths and portions of roadways set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this Traffic Code that by their nature are applicable to an electric personal
assistive mobility device apply to the device and the person operating it
whenever it is operated upon any public street, highway, sidewalk, or path or
upon any portion of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
      (3)   The municipality may regulate or prohibit the operation of electric
personal assistive mobility devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks, and
paths, or portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles,
under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   No operator of an electric personal assistive mobility device shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians and human-powered
vehicles at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         (a)   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet;
         (b)   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle;
      (4)   Operate the device on any portion of a street or highway that has
an established speed limit of 55 miles per hour or more;
      (5)   Operate the device upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of
pedestrians or other specialized use when an appropriate sign giving notice of
the specialized use is posted on the path;
      (6)   If under 18 years of age, operate the device unless wearing a
protective helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened;
      (7)   If under 16 years of age, operate the device unless, during the
operation, the person is under the direct visual and audible supervision of
another person who is 18 years of age or older and is responsible for the
immediate care of the person under 16 years of age.
   (C)   No person who is under 14 years of age shall operate an electric
personal assistive mobility device.
   (D)   No person shall distribute or sell an electric personal assistive
mobility device unless the device is accompanied by a written statement that is
substantially equivalent to the following: “WARNING: TO REDUCE THE RISK OF
SERIOUS INJURY, USE ONLY WHILE WEARING FULL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT – HELMET,
WRIST GUARDS, ELBOW PADS, AND KNEE PADS”.
   (E)   Nothing in this section affects or shall be construed to affect any
rule of the Director of Natural Resources or a board of park district
commissioners governing the operation of vehicles on lands under the control of
the Director or board, as applicable.
   (F)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (B) or (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor and shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   The offender shall be fined $10;
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (B) or (C) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to imposing
the fine required under division (F)(1)(a) of this section, shall do one of the
following:
            1.   Order the impoundment for not less than one day but not more
than 30 days of the electric personal assistive mobility device that was
involved in the current violation of that division. The court shall order the
device to be impounded at a safe indoor location designated by the court and
may assess storage fees of not more than $5 per day; provided the total
storage, processing, and release fees assessed against the offender or the
device in connection with the device’s impoundment or subsequent release shall
not exceed $50.
            2.    If the court does not issue an impoundment order pursuant to
division (F)(1)(b)1. of this section, issue an order prohibiting the offender
from operating any electric personal assistive mobility device on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks, and paths and portions of roadways set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles for not less than one day but not more than 30
days.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.512) (Rev. 2004)
   (G)   As used in this code, ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE
means a self-balancing two non-tandem wheeled device that is designed to
transport only one person, has an electric propulsion system of an average of
750 watts, and when ridden on a paved level surface by an operator who weighs
170 pounds has a maximum speed of less than 20 miles per hour.
(R.C. § 4501.01(TT)) (Rev. 2005)
§ 72.062 OPERATION OF PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE ON SIDEWALKS AND CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ELIGIBLE ENTITY. Means a corporation, partnership, association, firm,
sole proprietorship, or other entity engaged in business.
      PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE. Means an electrically powered device to which
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The device is intended primarily to transport property and cargo
on sidewalks and crosswalks.
         (b)   The device weighs less than 250 pounds excluding any property or
cargo being carried in the device.
         (c)   The device has a maximum speed of ten miles per hour.
         (d)   The device is equipped with technology that enables the
operation of the device with active control or monitoring by a person, without
active control or monitoring by a person, or both with or without active
control or monitoring by a person.
      PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE OPERATOR. Means an agent of an eligible entity
who exercises direct physical control over, or monitoring of, the navigation
and operation of a personal delivery device. The phrase does not include, with
respect to a delivery or other service rendered by a personal delivery device,
the person who requests the delivery or service. The phrase also does not
include a person who only arranges for and dispatches a personal delivery
device for a delivery or other service.
   (B)   An eligible entity may operate a personal delivery device on sidewalks
and crosswalks so long as all of the following requirements are met:
      (1)   The personal delivery device is operated in accordance with all
regulations, if any, established by each local authority within which the
personal delivery device is operated.
      (2)   A personal delivery device operator is actively controlling or
monitoring the navigation and operation of the personal delivery device.
      (3)   The eligible entity maintains an insurance policy that includes
general liability coverage of not less than $100,000 for damages arising from
the operation of the personal delivery device by the eligible entity and any
agent of the eligible entity.
      (4)   The device is equipped with all of the following:
         (a)   A marker that clearly identifies the name and contact
information of the eligible entity operating the personal delivery device and a
unique identification number;
         (b)   A braking system that enables the personal delivery device to
come to a controlled stop;
         (c)   If the personal delivery device is being operated between sunset
and sunrise, a light on both the front and rear of the personal delivery device
that is visible in clear weather from a distance of at least 500 feet to the
front and rear of the personal delivery device when directly in front of low
beams of headlights on a motor vehicle.
   (C)   No personal delivery device operator shall allow a personal delivery
device to do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with traffic or pedestrian control devices and
signals;
      (2)   Unreasonably interfere with pedestrians or traffic;
      (3)   Transport any hazardous material that would require a permit issued
by the Public Utilities Commission;
      (4)   Operate on a street or highway, except when crossing the street or
highway within a crosswalk.
   (D)   A personal delivery device has all of the rights and obligations
applicable to a pedestrian under the same circumstances, except that a personal
delivery device shall yield the right-of-way to human pedestrians on sidewalks
and crosswalks.
   (E)   (1)   No person shall operate a personal delivery device unless the
person is authorized to do so under this section and complies with the
requirements of this section.
      (2)   An eligible entity is responsible for both of the following:
         (a)   Any violation of this section that is committed by a personal
delivery device operator; and
         (b)   Any other circumstance, including a technological malfunction,
in which a personal delivery device operates in a manner prohibited by
divisions (C)(1) to (C)(4) of this section.
(R.C. § 4511.513) (Rev. 2022) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.063 LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   A low-speed micromobility device may be operated on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks, and shared-use paths, and may be operated on any
portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance
with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this title that by their nature could apply to a low-speed micromobility device
do apply to the device and the person operating it whenever it is operated upon
any public street, highway, sidewalk, or shared-use path, or upon any portion
of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (B)   No operator of a low-speed micromobility device shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         (a)   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet;
         (b)   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   No person who is under 16 years of age shall rent a low-speed
micromobility device.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device to
a person who is under 16 years of age.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device on
behalf of a person who is under 16 years of age.
   (D)   No person shall operate a low-speed micromobility device at a speed
greater than 20 miles per hour.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Unless a mens rea is otherwise specified in this section, an
offense established under this section is a strict liability offense and R.C. §
2901.20 does not apply. The designation of that offense as a strict liability
offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for which there
is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
   (F)   Notwithstanding division (A)(1) of this section, the municipality,
county, township, metropolitan park district, township park district,
recreation district, or any division of the Ohio Department of Natural
Resources if the division has the approval of the Ohio Director of Natural
Resources may do any of the following:
      (1)   Regulate or prohibit the operation of low- speed micromobility
devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks, and shared-use paths, and
portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, under its
jurisdiction;
      (2)   Include low-speed micromobility devices that are adapted to expand
access for people with various physical limitations into a shared bicycle,
shared electric bicycle, or similar vehicle sharing program, under its
jurisdiction;
      (3)   Require the owner or operator of a low- speed micromobility device
rental service or low-speed micromobility device sharing program to maintain
commercial general liability insurance related to the operation of the devices,
with limits of up to $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 per aggregate.
(R.C. § 4511.514) (Rev. 2022) Penalty, see §
70.99
GRADE CROSSINGS
§ 72.075 STOP SIGNS AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   As used in this section, ACTIVE GRADE CROSSING WARNING DEVICE means
signs, signals, gates, or other protective devices erected or installed at a
public highway-railway crossing at common grade and activated by an electrical
circuit.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities, with the
approval of the Department, may designate dangerous highway crossings over
railroad tracks and erect stop signs thereat.
   (C)   (1)   The Department and local authorities shall erect stop signs at a
railroad highway grade crossing in either of the following circumstances:
         (a)   New warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning
devices are being installed at the grade crossing, and railroad crossbucks were
the only warning devices at the grade crossing prior to the installation of the
new warning devices.
         (b)   The grade crossing is constructed after July 1, 2013, and only
warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning devices are
installed at the grade crossing.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a railroad
highway grade crossing that the Director of Transportation has exempted from
that division because of traffic flow or other considerations or factors.
   (D)   When stop signs are erected pursuant to division (B) or (C) of this
section, the operator of any vehicle shall stop within 50, but not less than
15, feet from the nearest rail of the railroad tracks and shall exercise due
care before proceeding across such grade crossing.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (F)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.61) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.076 DRIVING VEHICLE ACROSS RAILROAD GRADE CROSSING.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad
grade crossing, the person shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet
from the nearest rail of the railroad if any of the following circumstances
exist at the crossing:
         (a)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a train.
         (b)   A crossing gate is lowered.
         (c)   A flagperson gives or continues to give a signal of the approach
or passage of a train.
         (d)   There is insufficient space on the other side of the railroad
grade crossing to accommodate the vehicle the person is operating without
obstructing the passage of other vehicles, pedestrians or railroad trains,
notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed.
         (e)   An approaching train is emitting an audible signal or is plainly
visible, and is in hazardous proximity to the crossing.
         (f)   There is insufficient undercarriage clearance to safely
negotiate the crossing.
      (2)   A person who is driving a vehicle and who approaches a railroad
grade crossing shall not proceed as long as any of the circumstances described
in divisions (A)(1)(a) through (A)(1)(f) of this section exist at the crossing.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around, or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while the gate or barrier is
closed, or is being opened or closed unless the person is signaled by a law
enforcement officer or flagperson that it is permissible to do so.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.62) (Rev. 2004)
§ 72.077 VEHICLES REQUIRED TO STOP AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the operator of
any bus, any school vehicle, or any vehicle transporting material required to
be placarded under 49 C.F.R. parts 100 through 185, before crossing at grade
any track of a railroad, shall stop the vehicle, and while so stopped, shall
listen through an open door or open window, and look in both directions along
the track for any approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of
a train, and shall proceed only upon exercising due care after stopping,
looking, and listening as required by this section. Upon proceeding, the
operator of such a vehicle shall cross only in a gear that will ensure there
will be no necessity for changing gears while traversing the crossing, and
shall not shift gears while crossing the tracks.
   (B)   This section does not apply at grade crossings when any local
authority has filed an application with the Public Utilities Commission
requesting the approval of an exempt crossing, and the Public Utilities
Commission has authorized and approved an exempt crossing as provided in R.C. §
4511.63(B).
   (C)   As used in this section:
      BUS. Means any vehicle originally designed by its manufacturer to
transport 16 or more passengers, including the driver, or carries 16 or more
passengers, including the driver.
      EXEMPT CROSSING. Means a highway rail grade crossing authorized and
approved by the Public Utilities Commission under R.C. § 4511.63(B) at which
vehicles may cross without making the stop otherwise required by this section.
      SCHOOL VEHICLE. Means any vehicle used for the transportation of pupils
to and from a school or school-related function if the vehicle is owned or
operated by, or operated under contract with, a public or nonpublic school.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or 4511.79, or
a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of those
sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.63) (Rev. 2006)
§ 72.078 SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES OR EQUIPMENT CROSSING RAILROAD TRACKS.
   (A)   No person shall operate or move any crawler-type tractor, steam
shovel, derrick, roller, or any equipment or structure having a normal
operating speed of six or less miles per hour or a vertical body or load
clearance of less than nine inches above the level surface of a roadway, upon
or across any tracks at a railroad grade crossing without first complying with
divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) of this section.
      (1)   Before making any such crossing, the person operating or moving any
such vehicle or equipment shall first stop the same, and while stopped, the
person shall listen and look in both directions along the track for any
approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of a train, and shall
proceed only upon exercising due care.
      (2)   No such crossing shall be made when warning is given by automatic
signal, crossing gates, or a flagperson, or otherwise of the immediate approach
of a railroad train or car.
   (B)   If the normal sustained speed of the vehicle, equipment, or structure
is not more than three miles per hour, the person owning, operating, or moving
the same shall also give notice of the intended crossing to a station agent or
superintendent of the railroad, and a reasonable time shall be given to the
railroad to provide proper protection for the crossing. Where the vehicles or
equipment are being used in constructing or repairing a section of highway
lying on both sides of a railroad grade crossing, and in this construction or
repair it is necessary to repeatedly move the vehicles or equipment over the
crossing, one daily notice specifying when the work will start and stating the
hours during which it will be prosecuted is sufficient.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.64) (Rev. 2019)
SCHOOL BUSES
§ 72.090 REGULATIONS CONCERNING SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle, upon meeting or overtaking from either
direction any school bus stopped for the purpose of receiving or discharging
any school child, person attending programs offered by community boards of
mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child
attending a program offered by a head start agency, shall stop at least ten
feet from the front or rear of the school bus and shall not proceed until such
school bus resumes motion, or until signaled by the school bus driver to
proceed. It is no defense to a charge under this division that the school bus
involved failed to display or be equipped with an automatically extended stop
warning sign as required by division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Every school bus shall be equipped with amber and red visual signals
meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.771 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type
approved by the state Board of Education, which shall be actuated by the driver
of the bus whenever but only whenever the bus is stopped or stopping on the
roadway for the purpose of receiving or discharging school children, persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities, or children attending programs offered by
head start agencies. A school bus driver shall not actuate the visual signals
or the stop warning sign in designated school bus loading areas where the bus
is entirely off the roadway or at school buildings when children or persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities are loading or unloading at curbside or at
buildings when children attending programs offered by head start agencies are
loading or unloading at curbside. The visual signals and stop warning sign
shall be synchronized or otherwise operated as required by rule of the Board.
   (C)   Where a highway has been divided into four or more traffic lanes, a
driver of a vehicle need not stop for a school bus approaching from the
opposite direction which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or
discharging any school child, persons attending programs offered by community
boards of mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or
children attending programs offered by head start agencies. The driver of any
vehicle overtaking the school bus shall comply with division (A) above.
   (D)   School buses operating on divided highways or on highways with four or
more traffic lanes shall receive and discharge all school children, persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities, and children attending programs offered
by head start agencies on their residence side of the highway.
   (E)   No school bus driver shall start the driver’s bus until after any
child, person attending programs offered by community boards of mental health
and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child attending a program
offered by a head start agency who may have alighted therefrom has reached a
place of safety on the child’s or person’s residence side of the road.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section may be fined an
amount not to exceed $500. A person who is issued a citation for a violation of
division (A) of this section is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty
and waive the person’s right to contest the citation in a trial but instead
must appear in person in the proper court to answer the charge.
      (2)   In addition to and independent of any other penalty provided by
law, the court or mayor may impose upon an offender who violates this section a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7). When a
license is suspended under this section, the court or mayor shall cause the
offender to deliver the license to the court, and the court or clerk of the
court immediately shall forward the license to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles,
together with notice of the court’s action.
   (G)   As used in this section:
      HEAD START AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3301.32.
      SCHOOL BUS. As used in relation to children who attend a program offered
by a head start agency, means a bus that is owned and operated by a head start
agency, is equipped with an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type
approved by the State Board of Education, is painted the color and displays the
markings described in R.C. § 4511.77, and is equipped with amber and red visual
signals meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.77, irrespective of whether or
not the bus has 15 or more children aboard at any time. The term does not
include a van owned and operated by a head start agency, irrespective of its
color, lights or markings.
(R.C. § 4511.75) (Rev. 2010)
§ 72.091 VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS; REPORT; INVESTIGATION; CITATION; WARNING.
   (A)   As used in this section, LICENSE PLATE includes but is not limited to
any temporary motor vehicle license registration issued under R.C. § 4503.182
or substantially equivalent law of another jurisdiction.
   (B)   When the operator of a school bus believes that a motorist has
violated R.C. § 4511.75(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
the operator shall report the license plate number and general description of
the vehicle and of the operator of the vehicle to the law enforcement agency
exercising jurisdiction over the area where the alleged violation occurred. The
information contained in the report relating to the license plate number and to
the general description of the vehicle and the operator of the vehicle at the
time of the alleged violation may be supplied by any person with first-hand
knowledge of the information. Information of which the operator of the school
bus has first-hand knowledge also may be corroborated by any other person.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the report of the alleged violation of R.C. § 4511.75
(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the law enforcement
agency shall conduct an investigation to attempt to determine the identity of
the operator of the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation. If the
identity of the operator at the time of the alleged violation is established,
the reporting of the license plate number of the vehicle shall establish
probable cause for the law enforcement agency to issue a citation for the
violation of R.C. § 4511.75(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. However, if the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time
of the alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency
shall issue a warning to the owner of the vehicle at the time of the alleged
violation, except in the case of a leased or rented vehicle when the warning
shall be issued to the lessee at the time of the alleged violation.
(R.C. § 4511.751) (Rev. 2022)
§ 72.092 RESTRICTIONS ON THE OPERATION OF SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle used for pupil transportation within
this municipality in violation of the rules of the Department of Education of
the Department of Public Safety. No person, being the owner thereof, or having
the supervisory responsibility therefor, shall permit the operation of a
vehicle used for pupil transportation within this municipality in violation of
the rules of the Department of Education or the Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   As used in this section, VEHICLE USED FOR PUPIL TRANSPORTATION means
any vehicle that is identified as such by the Department of Education by rule
and that is subject to O.A.C. Chapter 3301-83.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.76, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.76(C), (F), (G)) (Rev. 2020)
§ 72.093 SCHOOL BUS INSPECTION.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof,
or having supervisory responsibility therefor, permit the operation of, a
school bus within this municipality, unless there is displayed thereon the
decals issued by the state highway patrol bearing the proper date of inspection
for the calendar year for which the inspection decals were issued.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.761, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (C)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation, issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.761) (Rev. 2004)
§ 72.094 SCHOOL BUS NOT USED FOR SCHOOL PURPOSES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no person who is
the owner of a bus that previously was registered as a school bus that is used
or is to be used exclusively for purposes other than the transportation of
children shall operate the bus or permit it to be operated within this
municipality unless the bus has been painted a color different from that
prescribed for school buses by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance and painted in such a way that the words “stop” and “school
bus” are obliterated.
   (B)   Any church bus that previously was registered as a school bus and is
registered under R.C. § 4503.07 may retain the paint color prescribed for
school buses by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance if the bus complies with all of the following:
      (1)   The words “school bus” required by R.C. § 4511.77 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance are covered or obliterated and the
bus is marked on the front and rear with the words “church bus” painted in
black lettering not less than ten inches in height.
      (2)   The automatically extending stop warning sign required by R.C. §
4511.75 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance is removed and the
word “stop” required by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance is covered or obliterated.
      (3)   The flashing red and amber lights required by R.C. § 4511.771 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance are covered or removed.
      (4)   The inspection decal required by R.C. § 4511.761 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance is covered or removed.
      (5)   The identification number assigned under R.C. § 4511.764 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance and marked in black lettering on
the front and rear of the bus is covered or obliterated.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.762, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (D)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation, issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.762) (Rev. 2004)
§ 72.095 LICENSING BY DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY.
   (A)   No person, partnership, association, or corporation shall transport
pupils to or from school on a school bus or enter into a contract with a board
of education of any school district for the transportation of pupils on a
school bus without being licensed by the Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.763) (Rev. 2004)
§ 72.096 REGISTRATION AND IDENTIFICATION OF SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof
or having supervisory responsibility therefor, permit the operation of a school
bus within this municipality unless there is displayed thereon an identifying
number in accordance with R.C. § 4511.764.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of R.C. § 4511.63,
4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.77, or 4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that
is substantially equivalent to any of those sections, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.764) (Rev. 2004)
§ 72.097 SCHOOL BUS MARKING.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof
or having supervisory responsibility therefor permit the operation of, a school
bus within this municipality unless it is painted national school bus yellow
and is marked on both front and rear with the words “school bus” in black
lettering not less than eight inches in height and on the rear of the bus with
the word “stop” in black lettering not less than ten inches in height.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.77, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (C)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend, for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.77) (Rev. 2004)
§ 72.098 FLASHING LIGHT SIGNAL LAMPS.
   (A)   Every school bus shall, in addition to any other equipment and
distinctive markings required pursuant to R.C. §§ 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.764
and 4511.77, and any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, be equipped
with signal lamps mounted as high as practicable, which shall display to the
front two alternately flashing red lights and two alternately flashing amber
lights located at the same level and to the rear two alternately flashing red
lights and alternately flashing amber lights located at the same level, and
these lights shall be visible at 500 feet in normal sunlight. The alternately
flashing red lights shall be spaced as widely as practicable, and the
alternately flashing amber lights shall be located next to them.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.771) (Rev. 2004)
§ 72.099 OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE FOR OPERATOR.
   (A)   On and after May 6, 1986, no person, school board, or governmental
entity shall purchase, lease, or rent a new school bus unless the school bus
has an occupant restraining device, as defined in R.C. § 4513.263, installed
for use in its operator’s seat.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.772) (Rev. 2004)
PROHIBITIONS
§ 72.115 OBSTRUCTION AND INTERFERENCE AFFECTING VIEW AND CONTROL OF DRIVER.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such number of persons, as to obstruct the view of the
driver to the front or sides of the vehicle, or to interfere with the driver’s
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in a position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with the driver’s
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.70) (Rev. 2004)
§ 72.116 OCCUPYING TRAVEL TRAILER WHILE IN MOTION.
   (A)   No person shall occupy any travel trailer or manufactured or mobile
home while it is being used as a conveyance upon a street or highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.701) (Rev. 2004)
§ 72.117 DRIVING UPON CLOSED HIGHWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall drive upon, along, or across a street or highway, or
any part of a street or highway that has been closed in the process of its
construction, reconstruction, or repair, and posted with appropriate signs by
the authority having jurisdiction to close the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.71(A))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on or onto a public street or
highway that is temporarily covered by a rise in water level, including
groundwater or an overflow of water, and that is clearly marked by a sign that
specifies that the road is closed due to the rise in water level and that any
person who uses the closed portion of the road may be fined up to $2,000.
      (2)   A person who is issued a citation for a violation of division (B)
(1) of this section is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty and
waive the person’s right to contest the citation in court, but instead must
appear in person in the proper court to answer the charge.
(R.C. § 4511.714(A), (B)) (Rev. 2016)
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If,
within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of
or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
         (b)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.71(B)) (Rev. 2019)
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required
under R.C. § 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required under
any provision of law, the court imposing the sentence upon an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (B) of this section
shall order the offender to reimburse one or more rescuers for the cost any
such rescuer incurred in rescuing the person, excluding any cost of
transporting the rescued person to a hospital or other facility for treatment
of injuries, up to a cumulative maximum of $2,000. If more than one rescuer was
involved in the emergency response, the court shall allocate the reimbursement
proportionately, according to the cost each rescuer incurred. A financial
sanction imposed under this section is a judgment in favor of the rescuer and,
subject to a determination of indigency under R.C. § 2929.28(B), a rescuer may
collect the financial sanction in the same manner as provided in R.C. §
2929.28.
(R.C. § 4511.714(C))
   (D)   As used in this section:
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE ORGANIZATION. Has the same meanings as in R.C.
§ 9.60.
      FIREFIGHTING AGENCY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 9.60.
      PRIVATE FIRE COMPANY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 9.60.
      RESCUER. Means a state agency, political subdivision, firefighting
agency, private fire company, or emergency medical service organization.
(R.C. § 4511.714(D))
§ 72.118 DRIVING UPON SIDEWALK AREA OR PATHS EXCLUSIVELY FOR BICYCLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall drive any vehicle, other than a bicycle or an
electric bicycle if the motor is not engaged, upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area,
except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway.
      (2)   This prohibition does not apply to a law enforcement officer, or
other person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state, using
an electric bicycle with the motor engaged while in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting local
authorities from regulating the operation of bicycles or electric bicycles,
except that no local authority may require that bicycles or electric bicycles
be operated on sidewalks.
(R.C. § 4511.711(A)) (Rev. 2022)
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, snowmobile, or all-
purpose vehicle upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, when
an appropriate sign giving notice of such use is posted on the path.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect any rule of
the Director of Natural Resources governing the operation of motor vehicles,
snowmobiles, all- purpose vehicles, and bicycles on lands under the Director’s
jurisdiction.
(R.C. § 4511.713(A))
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.711(B), 4511.713(B)) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.119 OBSTRUCTING PASSAGE OF OTHER VEHICLES.
   (A)   No driver shall enter an intersection or marked crosswalk, or drive
onto any railroad grade crossing, unless there is sufficient space on the other
side of the intersection, crosswalk, or grade crossing to accommodate the
vehicle the driver is operating without obstructing the passage of other
vehicles, pedestrians, or railroad trains, notwithstanding any traffic-control
signal indication to proceed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.712) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.120 FOLLOWING AN EMERGENCY OR PUBLIC VEHICLE PROHIBITED; APPROACHING
STATIONARY PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE AND CERTAIN OTHER VEHICLES WITH CAUTION.
   (A)   Following an emergency or public vehicle prohibited. The driver of any
vehicle, other than an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle on official
business, shall not follow any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle
traveling in response to an alarm closer than 500 feet, or drive into or park
the vehicle within the block where the fire apparatus has stopped in answer to
a fire alarm, unless directed to do so by a police officer or a firefighter.
(R.C. § 4511.72(A))
   (B)   Approaching stationary public safety vehicle with caution.
      (1)   The driver of a motor vehicle, upon approaching a stationary public
safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste collection
vehicle, vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor
vehicle inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a
highway maintenance vehicle that is displaying the appropriate visual signals
by means of flashing, oscillating, or rotating lights, as prescribed in R.C. §
4513.17, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   If the driver of the motor vehicle is traveling on a highway
that consists of at least two lanes that carry traffic in the same direction of
travel as that of the driver’s motor vehicle, the driver shall proceed with due
caution and, if possible and with due regard to the road, weather, and traffic
conditions, shall change lanes into a lane that is not adjacent to that of the
stationary public safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle,
waste collection vehicle, vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to
conduct motor vehicle inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and
4923.06, or a highway maintenance vehicle.
         (b)   If the driver is not traveling on a highway of a type described
in division (B)(1)(a) of this section, or if the driver is traveling on a
highway of that type but it is not possible to change lanes or if to do so
would be unsafe, the driver shall proceed with due caution, reduce the speed of
the motor vehicle, and maintain a safe speed for the road, weather, and traffic
conditions.
      (2)   This division (B) does not relieve the driver of a public safety
vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste collection vehicle,
vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor vehicle
inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a highway
maintenance vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of
all persons and property upon the highway.
      (3)   No person shall fail to drive a motor vehicle in compliance with
divisions (B)(1)(a) or (B)(1)(b) of this section when so required by division
(B) of this section.
(R.C. § 4511.213(A) - (C)) (Rev. 2015)
   (C)   Penalty.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding §
130.99 or R.C. § 2929.28, upon a finding that a person operated a motor vehicle
in violation of division (B)(3) of this section, the court, in addition to all
other penalties provided by law, shall impose a fine of two times the usual
amount imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.213(D), 4511.72(B)) (Rev. 2019)
   (D)   The offense established under division (B) of this section is a strict
liability offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this
offense as a strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any
other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a
strict liability offense.
(R.C. §§ 4511.213(E)) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.121 DRIVING OVER UNPROTECTED FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall, without the consent of the fire department official
in command, be driven over any unprotected hose of a fire department that is
laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or alarm of
fire.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.73) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.122 PLACING INJURIOUS MATERIAL ON HIGHWAY OR DEPOSITING LITTER FROM MOTOR
VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a
highway, lane, road, street, or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails,
or other articles which may damage or injure any person, vehicle, or animal
traveling along or upon the highway, except such substances that may be placed
upon the roadway by proper authority for the repair or construction thereof.
      (2)   Any person who drops or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
highway any destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove the
same.
      (3)   Any person authorized to remove a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a
highway shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the
highway from such vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall place any obstruction in or upon a highway without
proper authority.
   (B)   No person, with intent to cause physical harm to a person or a
vehicle, shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a highway, lane, road,
street, or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails, or other articles
which may damage or injure any person, vehicle, or animal traveling along or
upon such highway, except such substances that may be placed upon the roadway
by proper authority for the repair or construction thereof.
(R.C. § 4511.74(A), (B))
   (C)   No operator or occupant of a motor vehicle shall, regardless of
intent, throw, drop, discard, or deposit litter from any motor vehicle in
operation upon any street, road, or highway, except into a litter receptacle in
a manner that prevents its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (D)   No operator of a motor vehicle in operation upon any street, road, or
highway shall allow litter to be thrown, dropped, discarded, or deposited from
the motor vehicle, except into a litter receptacle in a manner that prevents
its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (E)   As used in this section, LITTER means garbage, trash, waste, rubbish,
ashes, cans, bottles, wire, paper, cartons, boxes, automobile parts, furniture,
glass, or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
(R.C. § 4511.82(A), (B), (D))
   (F)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4511.74(C)) (Rev. 2004)
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.82(C)) (Rev. 2004)
§ 72.123 TRANSPORTING CHILD NOT IN CHILD RESTRAINT SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly secured in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child
restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age;
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (B)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab, that is owned,
leased, or otherwise under the control of a nursery school or day-care center,
the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child properly secured in
accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child restraint system
that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age;
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (C)   When any child who is less than eight years of age and less than four
feet nine inches in height, who is not required by division (A) or (B) of this
section to be secured in a child restraint system, is being transported in a
motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01 or a vehicle that is regulated under R.C. § 5104.015, that is
required by the United States Department of Transportation to be equipped with
seat belts at the time of manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor
vehicle shall have the child properly secured in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions on a booster seat that meets federal motor vehicle
safety standards.
   (D)   When any child who is at least eight years of age but not older than
15 years of age, and who is not otherwise required by division (A), (B), or (C)
of this section to be secured in a child restraint system or booster seat, is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly restrained either in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions
in a child restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards
or in an occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. § 4513.263.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause an operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section or causing the
arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of division
(C) or (D) of this section, and absent another violation of law, a law
enforcement officer’s view of the interior or visual inspection of a motor
vehicle being operated on any street or highway may not be used for the purpose
of determining whether a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section has
been or is being committed.
   (F)   The Director of Public Safety shall adopt such rules as are necessary
to carry out this section.
   (G)   The failure of an operator of a motor vehicle to secure a child in a
child restraint system, a booster seat, or an occupant restraining device as
required in this section is not negligence imputable to the child, is not
admissible as evidence in any civil action involving the rights of the child
against any other person allegedly liable for injuries to the child, is not to
be used as a basis for a criminal prosecution of the operator of the motor
vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section, and is not
admissible as evidence in any criminal action involving the operator of the
motor vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
   (H)   This section does not apply when an emergency exists that threatens
the life of any person operating or occupying a motor vehicle that is being
used to transport a child who otherwise would be required to be restrained
under this section. This section does not apply to a person operating a motor
vehicle who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4731 or a chiropractor licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4734 that states that the child who otherwise would be
required to be restrained under this section has a physical impairment that
makes use of a child restraint system, booster seat, or an occupant restraining
device impossible or impractical, provided that the person operating the
vehicle has safely and appropriately restrained the child in accordance with
any recommendations of the physician or chiropractor as noted on the affidavit.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any person to
carry with the person the birth certificate of a child to prove the age of the
child, but the production of a valid birth certificate for a child showing that
the child was not of an age to which this section applies is a defense against
any ticket, citation, or summons issued for violating this section.
   (J)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section
shall be punished as follows, provided that the failure of an operator of a
motor vehicle to secure more than one child in a child restraint system,
booster seat, or occupant restraining device as required by this section that
occurred at the same time, on the same day, and at the same location is deemed
to be a single violation of this section:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (J)(1)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not
less than $25 nor more than $75.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section or of a
state law or municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent any of those
divisions, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   All fines imposed pursuant to division (J)(1) of this section shall
be forwarded to the State Treasurer for deposit in the Child Highway Safety
Fund created by R.C. § 4511.81(I).
(R.C. § 4511.81(A) - (H), (K), (L)) (Rev. 2013)
§ 72.124 OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICES.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      AUTOMOBILE. Means any commercial tractor, passenger car, commercial car,
or truck that is required to be factory-equipped with an occupant restraining
device for the operator or any passenger by regulations adopted by the United
States Secretary of Transportation pursuant to the “National Traffic and Motor
Vehicle Safety Act of 1966", 80 Stat. 719, 15 U.S.C. § 1392.
      COMMERCIAL CAR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      COMMERCIAL TRACTOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE. A seat safety belt, shoulder belt, harness,
or other safety device for restraining a person who is an operator of or
passenger in an automobile and that satisfies the minimum federal vehicle
safety standards established by the United States Department of Transportation.
      PASSENGER. Any person in an automobile, other than its operator, who is
occupying a seating position for which an occupant restraining device is
provided.
      PASSENGER CAR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      TORT ACTION. A civil action for damages for injury, death, or loss to
person or property. The term includes a product liability claim, as defined in
R.C. § 2307.71, and as asbestos claim, as defined in R.C. § 2307.91, but does
not include a civil action for damages for breach of contract or another
agreement between persons.
      VEHICLE and MOTOR VEHICLE. As used in the definitions of the terms set
forth above, VEHICLE and MOTOR VEHICLE have the same meanings as in R.C. §
4511.01.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless he or she is
wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device, or operate a school bus that has an occupant restraining
device installed for use in its operator’s seat unless he or she is wearing all
of the available elements of the device, as properly adjusted.
      (2)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless each
passenger in the automobile who is subject to the requirement set forth in
division (B)(3) of this section is wearing all of the available elements of a
properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
      (3)   Occupy, as a passenger, a seating position on the front seat of an
automobile being operated on any street or highway unless he or she is wearing
all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining
device.
      (4)   Operate a taxicab on any street or highway unless all factory-
equipped occupant restraining devices in the taxicab are maintained in usable
form.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Division (B)(3) of this section does not apply to a person who is
required by R.C. § 4511.81 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to
be secured in a child restraint device or booster seat.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
an employee of the United States Postal Service or of a newspaper home delivery
service, during any period in which the person is engaged in the operation of
an automobile to deliver mail or newspapers to addressees.
      (3)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(3) of this section do not apply to a
person who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4731 or a chiropractor licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4734 that states the following:
         (a)   That the person has a physical impairment that makes use of an
occupant restraining device impossible or impractical;
         (b)   Whether the physical impairment is temporary, permanent, or
reasonably expected to be permanent;
         (c)   If the physical impairment is temporary, how long the physical
impairment is expected to make the use of an occupant restraining device
impossible or impractical.
      (4)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(3) of this section do not apply to a
person who has registered with the Registrar of Motor Vehicles in accordance
with division (C)(5) of this section.
      (5)   A person who has received an affidavit under division (C)(3) of
this section stating that the person has a permanent or reasonably expected to
be permanent physical impairment that makes use of an occupant restraining
device impossible or impracticable may register with the Registrar of Motor
Vehicles attesting to that fact. Upon such registration, the Registrar shall
make that information available in the law enforcement automated data system. A
person included in the database under division (C)(5) of this section is not
required to have the affidavit obtained in accordance with division (C)(3) of
this section in their possession while operating or occupying an automobile.
      (6)   A physician or chiropractor who issues an affidavit for the
purposes of division (C)(3) or (C)(4) of this section is immune from civil
liability arising from any injury or death sustained by the person who was
issued the affidavit due to the failure of the person to wear an occupant
restraining device unless the physician or chiropractor, in issuing the
affidavit, acted in a manner that constituted willful, wanton, or reckless
misconduct.
      (7)   The Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 establishing a process for a person to be included in the
database under division (C)(5) of this section. The information provided and
included in the database under division (C)(5) of this section is not a public
record subject to inspection or copying under R.C. § 149.43.
   (D)   Officers not permitted to stop cars to determine violation.
Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law enforcement
officer shall cause an operator of an automobile being operated on any street
or highway to stop the automobile for the sole purpose of determining whether a
violation of division (B) of this section has been or is being committed or for
the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or summons for the violation or
for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for the
violation. No law enforcement officer shall view the interior or visually
inspect any automobile being operated on any street or highway for the sole
purpose of determining whether the violation has been or is being committed.
   (E)   Use of fines for educational program. All fines collected for
violations of division (B) of this section shall be forwarded to the State
Treasurer for deposit in the funds as set forth in R.C. § 4513.263(E).
   (F)   Limitations on evidence used for prosecution.
      (1)   Subject to division (F)(2) of this section, the failure of a person
to wear all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device in violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(3) of this section or
the failure of a person to ensure that each minor who is a passenger of an
automobile being operated by that person is wearing all of the available
elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device in violation of
division (B)(2) of this section shall not be considered or used by the trier of
fact in a tort action as evidence of negligence or contributory negligence.
But, the trier of fact may determine based on evidence admitted consistent with
the Ohio Rules of Evidence that the failure contributed to the harm alleged in
the tort action and may diminish a recovery of compensatory damages that
represents non-economic loss, as defined in R.C. § 2307.011, in a tort action
that could have been recovered but for the plaintiff’s failure to wear all of
the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
Evidence of that failure shall not be used as a basis for a criminal
prosecution of the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this
section; and shall not be admissible as evidence in a criminal action involving
the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
      (2)   If, at the time of an accident involving a passenger car equipped
with occupant restraining devices, any occupant of the passenger car who
sustained injury or death was not wearing an available occupant restraining
device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a device, or was
not wearing such a device as properly adjusted, then, consistent with the Rules
of Evidence, the fact that the occupant was not wearing the available occupant
restraining device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a
device, or was not wearing such a device as properly adjusted is admissible in
evidence in relation to any claim for relief in a tort action to the extent
that the claim for relief satisfies all of the following:
         (a)   It seeks to recover damages for injury or death to the occupant;
         (b)   The defendant in question is the manufacturer, designer,
distributor, or seller of the passenger car;
         (c)   The claim for relief against the defendant in question is that
the injury or death sustained by the occupant was enhanced or aggravated by
some design defect in the passenger car or that the passenger car was not
crashworthy.
   (G)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section shall be fined
$30.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) shall be subject to the penalty
set forth in §
70.99(B).
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section shall be fined
$20.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B)(4) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
division (B)(4) of this section, whoever violates division (B)(4) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4513.263) (Rev. 2020)
Cross-reference:
Child restraint systems, see §
72.123
Installation and sale of seat safety belts, see §
74.33
School bus operators, restraining devices, see §
72.099
§ 72.125 USE OF ENGINE BRAKES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The non-emergency use of engine brakes within the municipality is
prohibited.
   (B)   As used in this section, ENGINE BRAKES shall be defined to include but
is not limited to Jake Brakes, Jacobs Brakes, C Brakes, PacBrakes, TekBrakes,
and any other type of engine retarders commonly utilized within the trucking
industry.
   (C)   This section does not apply to emergency vehicles operated by fire,
police, or military units.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Rev. 2007)
§ 72.126 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE WHILE WEARING EARPHONES OR EARPLUGS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      EARPHONES. Any device that covers all or a portion of both ears and that
does either of the following:
         (a)   Through either a physical connection to another device or a
wireless connection, provides the listener with radio programs, music, or other
information;
         (b)   Provides hearing protection.
      EARPHONES does not include speakers or other listening devices that are
built into protective headgear.
      EARPLUGS. Any device that can be inserted into one or both ears and that
does either of the following:
         (a)   Through either a physical connection to another device or a
wireless connection, provides the listener with radio programs, music, or other
information;
         (b)   Provides hearing protection.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle while wearing earphones over,
or earplugs in, both ears.
   (C)   This section does not apply to:
      (1)   Any person wearing a hearing aid;
      (2)   Law enforcement personnel while on duty;
      (3)   Fire Department personnel and emergency medical service personnel
while on duty;
      (4)   Any person engaged in the operation of equipment for use in the
maintenance or repair of any highway;
      (5)   Any person engaged in the operation of refuse collection equipment;
      (6)   Any person wearing earphones or earplugs for hearing protection
while operating a motorcycle.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.84) (Rev. 2021)
§ 72.127 CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINES AND LIVERY SERVICES.
   (A)   The operator of a chauffeured limousine shall accept passengers only
on the basis of prearranged contracts, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, and shall
not cruise in search of patronage unless the limousine is in compliance with
any statute or ordinance governing the operation of taxicabs or other similar
vehicles for hire.
   (B)   The operator of a chauffeured limousine may provide transportation to
passengers who arrange for the transportation through an intermediary,
including a digital dispatching service. Notwithstanding any law to the
contrary, when providing transportation arranged through an intermediary, the
operator of a chauffeured limousine may establish the fare and method of fare
calculation, so long as the method of fare calculation is provided to the
passenger upon request.
   (C)   No person shall advertise or hold himself or herself out as doing
business as a limousine service or livery service or other similar designation
unless each vehicle used by the person to provide the service is registered in
accordance with R.C. § 4503.24 and is in compliance with R.C. § 4509.80.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.85) (Rev. 2014)
Statutory reference:
Chauffeured limousine, motor vehicle licensing, see R.C. § 4503.24
Proof of financial responsibility, see R.C. § 4509.80
§ 72.128 OPERATING TRACTION ENGINE UPON IMPROVED HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   No person shall drive over the improved highways of this municipality
a traction engine or tractor with tires or wheels equipped with ice picks,
spuds, spikes, chains or other projections of any kind extending beyond the
cleats, and no person shall tow or in any way pull another vehicle over the
improved highways of this municipality which towed or pulled vehicle has tires
or wheels equipped with ice picks, spuds, spikes, chains or other projections
of any kind. As used in this section, “traction engine” or “tractor” applies to
all self-propelling engines equipped with metal-tired wheels operated or
propelled by any form of engine, motor or mechanical power.
   (B)   This municipality shall not adopt, enforce, or maintain any ordinance,
rule or regulation contrary to or inconsistent with division (A), nor shall
this municipality require any license tax upon or registration fee for any
traction engine, tractor, or trailer, or any permit or license to operate.
Operators of traction engines or tractors shall have the same rights upon the
public streets and highways as the drivers of any other vehicles, unless some
other safe and convenient way is provided, and no public road open to traffic
shall be closed to traction engines or tractors.
(R.C. § 5589.08)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
§ 72.129 CRACKING EXHAUST NOISES; PEELING OUT.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe
operation, or in compliance with law, in such a manner that the vehicle is so
rapidly accelerated or started from a stopped position, or in the shifting of
gears while in motion, that the exhaust system emits a loud, cracking or
chattering noise unusual to its normal operation, or that the rubber tires of
such vehicle squeal or leave tire marks on the roadway, commonly known as
“peeling out”.
(Rev. 2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.130 SHORTCUTTING ACROSS PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No operator of a motor vehicle shall enter upon private property for the
sole purpose of driving across such property, between abutting streets or other
public ways thereof. The failure to stop on such property in connection with or
in furtherance of the enterprise or activities being conducted on the property
shall constitute prima facie evidence of the violation.
(Rev. 2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.131 TEXTING WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle on any street, highway, or
property open to the public for vehicular traffic while using a handheld
electronic wireless communications device to write, send, or read a text-based
communication.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   A person using a handheld electronic wireless communications device
in that manner for emergency purposes, including an emergency contact with a
law enforcement agency, hospital or health care provider, fire department, or
other similar emergency agency or entity;
      (2)   A person driving a public safety vehicle who uses a handheld
electronic wireless communications device in that manner in the course of the
person’s duties;
      (3)   A person using a handheld electronic wireless communications device
in that manner whose motor vehicle is in a stationary position and who is
outside a lane of travel;
      (4)   A person reading, selecting, or entering a name or telephone number
in a handheld electronic wireless communications device for the purpose of
making or receiving a telephone call;
      (5)   A person receiving wireless messages on a device regarding the
operation or navigation of a motor vehicle; safety-related information,
including emergency, traffic, or weather alerts; or data used primarily by the
motor vehicle;
      (6)   A person receiving wireless messages via radio waves;
      (7)   A person using a device for navigation purposes;
      (8)   A person conducting wireless interpersonal communication with a
device that does not require manually entering letters, numbers, or symbols or
reading text messages, except to activate, deactivate, or initiate the device
or a feature or function of the device;
      (9)   A person operating a commercial truck while using a mobile data
terminal that transmits and receives data;
      (10)   A person using a handheld electronic wireless communications
device in conjunction with a voice- operated or hands-free device feature or
function of the vehicle.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause an operator of an automobile being operated on
any street or highway to stop the automobile for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (A) of this section has been or is
being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of that nature or causing the arrest of or commencing a
prosecution of a person for a violation of that nature, and no law enforcement
officer shall view the interior or visually inspect any automobile being
operated on any street or highway for the sole purpose of determining whether a
violation of that nature has been or is being committed.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
   (E)   A prosecution for a violation of this section does not preclude a
prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 4511.204 based on the same conduct.
However, if an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this
section and is also convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of R.C. §
4511.204 based on the same conduct, the two offenses are allied offenses of
similar import under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Includes any of the following:
         (a)   A wireless telephone;
         (b)   A text-messaging device;
         (c)   A personal digital assistant;
         (d)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
         (e)   Any other substantially similar wireless device that is designed
or used to communicate text.
      VOICE-OPERATED OR HANDS-FREE DEVICE. A device that allows the user to
vocally compose or send, or to listen to a text-based communication without the
use of either hand except to activate or deactivate a feature or function.
      WRITE, SEND, OR READ A TEXT-BASED COMMUNICATION. To manually write or
send, or read a text-based communication using an electronic wireless
communications device, including manually writing or sending, or reading
communications referred to as text messages, instant messages, or electronic
mail.
(R.C. § 4511.204) (Rev. 2019)
Statutory reference:
No preemption for local regulations imposing greater penalties, see R.C. §
4511.204(E)
§ 72.132 USE OF ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICES BY MINORS OR
PROBATIONARY DRIVERS WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit who has not attained the
age of 18 years and no holder of a probationary driver’s license shall drive a
motor vehicle on any street, highway, or property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking while using in any manner an
electronic wireless communications device.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to either of the
following:
      (1)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device for
emergency purposes, including an emergency contact with a law enforcement
agency, hospital or health care provider, fire department, or other similar
emergency agency or entity;
      (2)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device whose
motor vehicle is in a stationary position and the motor vehicle is outside a
lane of travel;
      (3)   A person using a navigation device in a voice-operated or hands-
free manner who does not manipulate the device while driving.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (A) of this section shall be fined $150. In addition, the
court shall impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license
or permit for a definite period of 60 days.
      (2)   If the person previously has been adjudicated a delinquent child or
a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of this section, whoever violates
this section shall be fined $300. In addition, the court shall impose a class
seven suspension of the person’s driver’s license or permit for a definite
period of one year.
   (D)   The filing of a sworn complaint against a person for a violation of
this section does not preclude the filing of a sworn complaint for a violation
of R.C. § 4511.205 for the same conduct. However, if a person is adjudicated a
delinquent child or a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of this section
and is also adjudicated a delinquent child or a juvenile traffic offender for a
violation of R.C. § 4511.205 for the same conduct, the two offenses are allied
offenses of similar import under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (E)   As used in this section, ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE
includes any of the following:
      (1)   A wireless telephone;
      (2)   A personal digital assistant;
      (3)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
      (4)   A text-messaging device;
      (5)   Any other substantially similar electronic wireless device that is
designed or used to communicate via voice, image, or written word.
(R.C. § 4511.205) (Rev. 2019)
CHAPTER 73: MOTOR VEHICLE CRIMES
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs
   
73.02   Implied consent
   
73.03   Physical control of vehicle while under the influence
   
73.04   Driving commercial vehicle with impaired alertness or ability; use of
drugs
   
73.05   Reckless operation of vehicles
   
73.06   Reckless operation off streets and highways; competitive operation
   
73.07   Operator to be in reasonable control
   
73.08   Immobilizing or disabling device violation
   
73.09   Street racing defined; prohibited on public highways
   
73.10   Speed limits
   
73.11   Slow speed or stopping
   
73.12   Emergency vehicles excepted from speed limitation
   
73.13   Speed regulations on bridges
   
73.14   Presenting false name or information to officer
   
73.15   Prohibition against resisting officer
   
73.16   Operation restricted for mini-trucks and low-speed, under-speed, or
utility vehicles
Stopping After Accident
   
73.30   Failure to stop after accident
   
73.31   Stopping after accident on other than public roads or highways
   
73.32   Accident involving damage to realty
   
73.33   Failure to report accident
Statutory reference:
Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL OR DRUGS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate any vehicle within this municipality,
if, at the time of the operation, any of the following apply:
         (a)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse,
or a combination of them.
         (b)   The person has a concentration of 0.08% or more but less than
0.17% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
         (c)   The person has a concentration of 0.096% or more but less than
0.204% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma.
         (d)   The person has a concentration of 0.08 grams or more but less
than 0.17 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
         (e)   The person has a concentration of 0.11 grams or more but less
than 0.238 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s
urine.
         (f)   The person has a concentration of 0.17% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
         (g)   The person has a concentration of 0.204% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or plasma.
         (h)   The person has a concentration of 0.17 grams or more by weight
of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
         (i)   The person has a concentration of 0.238 grams or more by weight
of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
         (j)   Except as provided in division (K) of this section, the person
has a concentration of any of the following controlled substances or
metabolites of a controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum
or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds any of the following:
            1.   The person has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s
urine of at least 500 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter
of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            2.   The person has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s
urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s urine
or has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            3.   The person has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine metabolite per milliliter
of the person’s urine or has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms of
cocaine metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            4.   The person has a concentration of heroin in the person’s urine
of at least 2,000 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s urine or
has a concentration of heroin in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            5.   The person has a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-
monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s urine of at least ten nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s urine or has
a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least ten nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s whole blood
or blood serum or plasma.
            6.   The person has a concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s urine
of at least 25 nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s urine or a
concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of
at least ten nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma.
            7.   The person has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s
urine of at least ten nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least two nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            8.   Either of the following applies:
               a.   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or a combination of them, and the person has a concentration of
marihuana metabolite in the person’s urine of at least 15 nanograms of
marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s urine or has a
concentration of marihuana metabolite in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least five nanograms of marihuana metabolite per
milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
               b.   The person has a concentration of marihuana metabolite in
the person’s urine of at least 35 nanograms of marihuana metabolite per
milliliter of the person’s urine or has a concentration of marihuana metabolite
in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms
of marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma.
            9.   The person has a concentration of methamphetamine in the
person’s urine of at least 500 nanograms of methamphetamine per milliliter of
the person’s urine or has a concentration of methamphetamine in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of
methamphetamine per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            10.   The person has a concentration of phencyclidine in the
person’s urine of at least 25 nanograms of phencyclidine per milliliter of the
person’s urine or has a concentration of phencyclidine in the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma of at least ten nanograms of phencyclidine per
milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            11.   The State Board of Pharmacy has adopted a rule pursuant to
R.C. § 4729.041 that specifies the amount of salvia divinorum and the amount of
salvinorin A that constitute concentrations of salvia divinorum and salvinorin
A in a person’s urine, in a person’s whole blood, or in a person’s blood serum
or plasma at or above which the person is impaired for purposes of operating
any vehicle within this state, the rule is in effect, and the person has a
concentration of salvia divinorum or salvinorin A of at least that amount so
specified by rule in the person’s urine, in the person’s whole blood, or in the
person’s blood serum or plasma.
      (2)   No person who, within 20 years of the conduct described in division
(A)(2)(a) of this section, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of this division or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) or (B) of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or any other
equivalent offense shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Operate any vehicle within this municipality while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them;
         (b)   Subsequent to being arrested for operating the vehicle as
described in division (A)(2)(a) of this section, being asked by a law
enforcement officer to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and being advised by the
officer in accordance with R.C. § 4511.192 or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance of the consequences of the person’s refusal or submission
to the test or tests, refuse to submit to the test or tests.
   (B)   No person under 21 years of age shall operate any vehicle within this
municipality, if, at the time of the operation, any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02% but less than
0.08% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
      (2)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.03% but less than
0.096% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma.
      (3)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02 grams but less than
0.08 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
      (4)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.028 grams but less
than 0.11 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
   (C)   In any proceeding arising out of one incident, a person may be charged
with a violation of division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(2) and a violation of division
(B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section, but the person may not be convicted
of more than one violation of these divisions.
   (D)   (1)   (a)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding
for a violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section or for an equivalent
offense that is vehicle-related, the result of any test of any blood or urine
withdrawn and analyzed at any health care provider, as defined in R.C. §
2317.02, may be admitted with expert testimony to be considered with any other
relevant and competent evidence in determining the guilt or innocence of the
defendant.
         (b)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of division (A) or
(B) of this section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, the
court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol, drugs of abuse,
controlled substances, metabolites of a controlled substance, or a combination
of them in the defendant’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine,
or other bodily substance at the time of the alleged violation as shown by
chemical analysis of the substance withdrawn within three hours of the time of
the alleged violation. The three-hour time limit specified in this division
regarding the admission of evidence does not extend or affect the two-hour time
limit specified in R.C. § 4511.192(A) as the maximum period of time during
which a person may consent to a chemical test or tests as described in that
section. The court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol, drugs of
abuse, or a combination of them as described in this division when a person
submits to a blood test at the request of a law enforcement officer under R.C.
§ 4511.191 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or a blood or
urine sample is obtained pursuant to a search warrant. Only a physician, a
registered nurse, an emergency medical technician-intermediate, an emergency
medical technician- paramedic, or a qualified technician, chemist, or
phlebotomist shall withdraw a blood sample for the purpose of determining the
alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or
combination content of the whole blood, blood serum, or blood plasma. This
limitation does not apply to the taking of breath or urine specimens. A person
authorized to withdraw blood under this division may refuse to withdraw blood
under this division, if in that person’s opinion, the physical welfare of the
person would be endangered by the withdrawing of blood. The bodily substance
withdrawn under this division (D)(1)(b) shall be analyzed in accordance with
methods approved by the Director of Health by an individual possessing a valid
permit issued by the Director pursuant to R.C. § 3701.143.
         (c)   As used in division (D)(1)(b) of this section, EMERGENCY MEDICAL
TECHNICIAN- INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-PARAMEDIC have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4765.01.
      (2)   In a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (A) of this
section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, if there was at
the time the bodily substance was withdrawn a concentration of less than the
applicable concentration of alcohol specified in divisions (A)(1)(b), (A)(1)
(c), (A)(1)(d) and (A)(1)(e) of this section or less than the applicable
concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a
controlled substance specified for a violation of division (A)(1)(j) of this
section, that fact may be considered with other competent evidence in
determining the guilt or innocence of the defendant. This division does not
limit or affect a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (B) of this
section.
      (3)   Upon the request of the person who was tested, the results of the
chemical test shall be made available to the person or the person’s attorney,
immediately upon the completion of the chemical test analysis. If the chemical
test was obtained pursuant to division (D)(1)(b) of this section, the person
tested may have a physician, a registered nurse, or a qualified technician,
chemist, or phlebotomist of the person’s own choosing administer a chemical
test or tests, at the person’s expense, in addition to any administered at the
request of a law enforcement officer. If the person was under arrest as
described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the arresting officer shall advise the
person at the time of the arrest that the person may have an independent
chemical test taken at the person’s own expense. If the person was under arrest
other than described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the form to be read to the
person to be tested, as required under §
73.02, shall state that the person may have an independent test performed at
the person’s expense. The failure or inability to obtain an additional chemical
test by a person shall not preclude the admission of evidence relating to the
chemical test or tests taken at the request of a law enforcement officer.
      (4)   (a)   As used in division (D)(4)(b) and (D)(4)(c) of this section,
NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION means the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration established as an administration of the United
States Department of Transportation under 96 Stat. 2415 (1983), 49 U.S.C. §
105.
         (b)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of division (A) or (B) of this section, of a municipal ordinance
relating to operating a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or alcohol and a drug of abuse, or of a municipal ordinance relating to
operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine, if a law enforcement officer has
administered a field sobriety test to the operator of the vehicle involved in
the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for any reliable, credible, and generally accepted field sobriety
tests that were in effect at the time the tests were administered, including
but not limited to any testing standards then in effect that were set by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply:
            1.   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
            2.   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field
sobriety test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding.
            3.   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (D)(4)(b)1. or (D)(4)(b)2. of this section and if the testimony or
evidence is admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the
testimony or evidence and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the
trier of fact considers to be appropriate.
         (c)   Division (D)(4)(b) of this section does not limit or preclude a
court, in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (D)(4)(b) of this section.
   (E)   (1)   Subject to division (E)(3) of this section, in any criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a violation of division (A)(1)(b),
(A)(1)(c), (A)(1)(d), (A)(1)(e), (A)(1)(f), (A)(1)(g), (A)(1)(h), (A)(1)(i), or
(A)(1)(j) or (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), or (B)(4) of this section or for an
equivalent offense that is substantially equivalent to any of those divisions,
a laboratory report from any laboratory personnel issued a permit by the
Department of Health authorizing an analysis as described in this division that
contains an analysis of the whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine,
or other bodily substance tested and that contains all of the information
specified in this division shall be admitted as prima facie evidence of the
information and statements that the report contains. The laboratory report
shall contain all of the following:
         (a)   The signature, under oath, of any person who performed the
analysis;
         (b)   Any findings as to the identity and quantity of alcohol, a drug
of abuse, a controlled substance, a metabolite of a controlled substance, or a
combination of them that was found;
         (c)   A copy of a notarized statement by the laboratory director of a
designee of the director that contains the name of each certified analyst or
test performer involved with the report, the analyst’s or test performer’s
employment relationship with the laboratory that issued the report, and a
notation that performing an analysis of the type involved is part of the
analyst’s or test performer’s regular duties;
         (d)   An outline of the analyst’s or test performer’s education,
training, and experience in performing the type of analysis involved and a
certification that the laboratory satisfies appropriate quality control
standards in general and, in this particular analysis, under rules of the
Department of Health.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law regarding the admission
of evidence, a report of the type described in division (E)(1) of this section
is not admissible against the defendant to whom it pertains in any proceeding,
other than a preliminary hearing or a grand jury proceeding, unless the
prosecutor has served a copy of the report on the defendant’s attorney or, if
the defendant has no attorney, on the defendant.
      (3)   A report of the type described in division (E)(1) of this section
shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents, identity, or amount of any
substance if, within seven days after the defendant to whom the report pertains
or the defendant’s attorney receives a copy of the report, the defendant or the
defendant’s attorney demands the testimony of the person who signed the report.
The judge in the case may extend the seven-day time limit in the interest of
justice.
   (F)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, any physician,
registered nurse, emergency medical technician-intermediate, emergency medical
technician-paramedic, or qualified technician, chemist, or phlebotomist who
withdraws blood from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.192, and any hospital, first-aid station, or clinic at which
blood is withdrawn from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.192, is immune from criminal liability and civil liability
based upon a claim of assault and battery or any other claim that is not a
claim of malpractice, for any act performed in withdrawing blood from the
person. The immunity provided in this division also extends to an emergency
medical service organization that employs an emergency medical technician-
intermediate or emergency medical technician-paramedic who withdraws blood
under this section. The immunity provided in this division is not available to
a person who withdraws blood if the person engages in willful or wanton
misconduct.
      (2)   As used in division (F)(1), EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-
INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-PARAMEDIC have the same meanings
as in R.C. § 4765.01.
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates any provisions of divisions (A)(1)(a) through
(A)(1)(i) or (A)(2) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them. Whoever
violates division (A)(1)(j) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle
while under the influence of a listed controlled substance or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance. The court shall sentence the offender for
either offense under R.C. Chapter 2929, except as otherwise authorized or
required by divisions (G)(1)(a) through (G)(1)(e) of this section:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(b), (G)(1)(c),
(G)(1)(d), or (G)(1)(e) of this section, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree, and the court shall sentence the offender to
all of the penalties and sanctions provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a)(i)
through (G)(1)(a)(iv).
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of division (A) or (B) of this
section or one other equivalent offense is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and
sanctions provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) through (G)(1)(b)(v).
         (c)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division (A) or (B) of this
section or other equivalent offenses is guilty of a misdemeanor. The court
shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and sanctions provided in
R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c)(i) through (G)(1)(c)(vi).
         (d)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of division (A) or
(B) of this section or other equivalent offenses or an offender who, within 20
years of the offense, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
five or more violations of that nature is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
         (e)   An offender who previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) that was a felony, regardless of
when the violation and the conviction or guilty plea occurred, is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   An offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) of this section and who subsequently seeks reinstatement of the
driver’s or occupational driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privilege suspended under this section or R.C. § 4511.19 as a result of the
conviction or guilty plea shall pay a reinstatement fee as provided in R.C. §
4511.191(F)(2).
      (3)   (a)   If an offender is sentenced to a jail term under R.C. §
4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) or (G)(1)(b)(ii) or (G)(1)(c)(i) or (G)(1)(c)(ii) and if,
within 60 days of sentencing of the offender, the court issues a written
finding on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail
where the offender is required to serve the term, the offender will not be able
to begin serving that term within the 60-day period following the date of
sentencing, the court may impose an alternative sentence as specified in R.C. §
4511.19(G)(3) that includes a term of house arrest with electronic monitoring,
with continuous alcohol monitoring, or with both electronic monitoring and
continuous alcohol monitoring.
         (b)   As an alternative to the mandatory jail terms as required by
R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1), the court may sentence the offender as provided in R.C. §
4511.19(G)(3).
      (4)   If an offender’s driver’s or occupational driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege is suspended under division (G) of
this section or R.C. § 4511.19(G) and if R.C. § 4510.13 permits the court to
grant limited driving privileges, the court may grant the limited driving
privileges in accordance with that section. If division (A)(7) of that section
requires the court impose as a condition of the privileges that the offender
must display on the vehicle that is driven subject to the privileges restricted
license plates that are issued under R.C. § 4503.231, except as provided in
division (B) of that section, the court shall impose that condition as one of
the conditions of the limited driving privileges granted to the offender,
except as provided in R.C. § 4503.231(B).
      (5)   Fines imposed under this section for a violation of division (A) of
this section shall be distributed as provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(5).
      (6)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order of criminal
forfeiture under division (G)(1)(c), (G)(1)(d), or (G)(1)(e) of this section is
assigned or transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in
addition to or independent of any other penalty established by law, the court
may fine the offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of
the National Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds of any fine so
imposed shall be distributed in accordance with division (C)(2) of that
section.
      (7)   In all cases in which an offender is sentenced under division (G)
of this section, the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, the court, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for
any economic loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and
proximate result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or
after committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under division
(G) of this section.
      (8)   A court may order an offender to reimburse a law enforcement agency
for any costs incurred by the agency with respect to a chemical test or tests
administered to the offender if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) of this section.
         (b)   The test or tests were of the offender’s whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, or urine.
         (c)   The test or tests indicated that the offender had a prohibited
concentration of a controlled substance or a metabolite of a controlled
substance in the offender’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine at the
time of the offense.
      (9)   As used in division (G) of this section, ELECTRONIC MONITORING has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   (H)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of operating a
motor vehicle after underage alcohol consumption and shall be punished as
follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (H)(2) of this section,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. In addition to
any other sanction imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class six
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6). The court may grant
limited driving privileges relative to the suspension under R.C. §§ 4510.021
and 4510.13. The court may grant unlimited driving privileges with an ignition
interlock device relative to the suspension and may reduce the period of
suspension as authorized under R.C. § 4510.022. If the court grants unlimited
driving privileges under R.C. § 4510.022, the court shall suspend any jail term
imposed under division (H)(1) of this section as required under that section.
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of division (A)
or (B) of this section or other equivalent offense or offenses, the offender is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. In addition to any other sanction
imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class four suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4). The court may grant limited driving
privileges relative to the suspension under R.C. §§ 4510.021 and 4510.13.
      (3)   If the offender also is convicted of or also pleads guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1414 and if the court
imposes a jail term for the violation of division (B) of this section, the
court shall impose upon the offender an additional definite jail term pursuant
to R.C. § 2929.24(E).
      (4)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the violation of division (B) of this section.
   (I)   (1)   No court shall sentence an offender to an alcohol treatment
program under this section unless the treatment program complies with the
minimum standards for alcohol treatment programs adopted under R.C. Chapter
5119 by the Director of Mental Health and Addiction Services.
      (2)   An offender who stays in a drivers’ intervention program or in an
alcohol treatment program under an order issued under this section shall pay
the cost of the stay in the program. However, if the court determines that an
offender who stays in an alcohol treatment program under an order issued under
this section is unable to pay the cost of the stay in the program, the court
may order that the cost be paid from the court’s Indigent Drivers’ Alcohol
Treatment Fund.
   (J)   If a person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege is suspended under this section or R.C. §
4511.19 files an appeal regarding any aspect of the person’s trial or sentence,
the appeal itself does not stay the operation of the suspension.
   (K)   Division (A)(1)(j) of this section does not apply to a person who
operates a vehicle while the person has a concentration of a listed controlled
substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s
whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds the amount
specified in that division, if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
      (2)   The person injected, ingested, or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
   (L)   The prohibited concentrations of a controlled substance or a
metabolite of a controlled substance listed in division (A)(1)(j) of this
section also apply in a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2923.16(D) in the
same manner as if the offender is being prosecuted for a prohibited
concentration of alcohol.
   (M)   All terms defined in R.C. § 4510.01 apply to this section. If the
meaning of a term defined in R.C. § 4510.01 conflicts with the meaning of the
same term as defined in R.C. § 4501.01 or 4511.01, the term as defined in R.C.
§ 4510.01 applies to this section.
(R.C. § 4511.19(A) - (M)) (Rev. 2018)
   (N)   As used in this section, §
73.02 and §
73.03:
      COMMUNITY RESIDENTIAL SANCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2929.01.
      CONTINUOUS ALCOHOL MONITORING. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      DRUG OF ABUSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4506.01.
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B);
         (b)   A violation of a municipal OVI ordinance;
         (c)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.04 in a case in which the offender
was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that section;
         (d)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.06(A)(1) or R.C. § 2903.08 or a
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to either of those
divisions;
         (e)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.06(A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4), R.C. §
2903.08(A)(2), or former R.C. § 2903.07, or a municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to any of those divisions or that former section, in a
case in which a judge or jury as the trier of fact found that the offender was
under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them;
         (f)   A violation of R.C. § 1547.11(A) or (B);
         (g)   A violation of a municipal ordinance prohibiting a person from
operating or being in physical control of any vessel underway or from
manipulating any water skis, aquaplane, or similar device on the waters of this
state while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination
of them or prohibiting a person from operating or being in physical control of
any vessel underway or from manipulating any water skis, aquaplane, or similar
device on the waters of this state with a prohibited concentration of alcohol,
a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine;
         (h)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or R.C. § 1547.11(A) or (B);
         (i)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or R.C. § 1547.11(A) or (B).
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE THAT IS VEHICLE- RELATED. Means an equivalent offense
that is any of the following:
         (a)   A violation described in division (a), (b), (c), (d), or (e) of
the definition for “equivalent offense” provided in this division (N);
         (b)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B);
         (c)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B).
      JAIL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Means the mandatory term in jail of 3, 6, 10, 20,
30, or 60 days that must be imposed under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a), (G)(1)(b),
or (G)(1)(c) upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (A) of that
section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Except as specifically authorized under R.C. § 4511.19, the term
must be served in a jail.
         (b)   Except as specifically authorized under R.C. § 4511.19, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced, or otherwise modified pursuant to R.C. §§ 2929.21
through 2929.28 or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
      MANDATORY PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY TERM OF LOCAL INCARCERATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2929.01.
      MUNICIPAL OVI ORDINANCE and MUNICIPAL OVI OFFENSE. Mean any municipal
ordinance prohibiting a person from operating a vehicle while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them or prohibiting
a person from operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a
controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
      PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      SANCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
(R.C. § 4511.181) (Rev. 2009)
Cross-reference:
Endangering children, see §
135.14
Power to suspend driver’s license, see §
33.05
Statutory reference:
Mandatory suspension periods; immobilizing or disabling device; restricted
license, see R.C. § 4510.13
Trial judge to suspend driver’s license, see R.C. § 4510.05
§ 73.02 IMPLIED CONSENT.
   (A)   (1)   As used in this section:
         ALCOHOL MONITORING DEVICE. Means any device that provides for
continuous alcohol monitoring, any ignition interlock device, any immobilizing
or disabling device other than an ignition interlock device that is constantly
available to monitor the concentration of alcohol in a person’s system, or any
other device that provides for the automatic testing and periodic reporting of
alcohol consumption by a person and that a court orders a person to use as a
sanction imposed as a result of the person’s conviction of or plea of guilty to
an offense.
         COMMUNITY ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 5119.01.
         PHYSICAL CONTROL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.194.
      (2)   Any person who operates a vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for vehicular travel or parking within this
municipality or who is in physical control of a vehicle shall be deemed to have
given consent to a chemical test or tests of the person’s whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine to determine the alcohol, drug of abuse,
controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or combination
content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine if
arrested for a violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or any other municipal OVI ordinance.
      (3)   The chemical test or tests under division (A)(2) of this section
shall be administered at the request of a law enforcement officer having
reasonable grounds to believe the person was operating or in physical control
of a vehicle in violation of a division, section, or ordinance identified in
division (A)(2) of this section. The law enforcement agency by which the
officer is employed shall designate which of the tests shall be administered.
      (4)   Any person who is dead or unconscious, or who otherwise is in a
condition rendering the person incapable of refusal, shall be deemed to have
consented as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, and the test or tests
may be administered, subject to R.C. §§ 313.12 through 313.16.
      (5)   (a)   If a law enforcement officer arrests a person for a violation
of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a municipal OVI ordinance and if the person if
convicted would be required to be sentenced under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c), (d),
or (e), the law enforcement officer shall request the person to submit, and the
person shall submit, to a chemical test or tests of the person’s whole blood,
blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine for the purpose of determining the
alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled
substance, or combination content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or
plasma, breath, or urine. A law enforcement officer who makes a request
pursuant to this division that a person submit to a chemical test or tests is
not required to advise the person of the consequences of submitting to, or
refusing to submit to, the test or tests and is not required to give the person
the form described in division (C) of this section, but the officer shall
advise the person at the time of the arrest that if the person refuses to take
a chemical test the officer may employ whatever reasonable means are necessary
to ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma. The officer shall also advise the person at the
time of the arrest that the person may have an independent chemical test taken
at the person’s own expense. Divisions (A)(3) and (A)(4) of this section apply
to the administration of a chemical test or tests pursuant to this division.
         (b)   If a person refuses to submit to a chemical test upon a request
made pursuant to division (A)(5)(a) of this section, the law enforcement
officer who made the request may employ whatever reasonable means are necessary
to ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma. A law enforcement officer who acts pursuant to
this division to ensure that a person submits to a chemical test of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma is immune from criminal and civil
liability based upon a claim for assault and battery or any other claim for the
acts, unless the officer so acted with malicious purpose, in bad faith, or in a
wanton or reckless manner.
(R.C. § 4511.191(A)) (Rev. 2016)
   (B)   Except as provided in division (A)(5) of this section, the arresting
law enforcement officer shall give advice in accordance with this section to
any person under arrest for a violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or any other municipal OVI ordinance. The officer shall
give that advice in a written form that contains the information described in
division (C) of this section and shall read the advice to the person. The form
shall contain a statement that the form was shown to the person under arrest
and read to the person by the arresting officer. One or more persons shall
witness the arresting officer’s reading of the form, and the witnesses shall
certify to this fact by signing the form. The person must submit to the
chemical test or tests, subsequent to the request of the arresting officer,
within two hours of the time of the alleged violation and, if the person does
not submit to the test or tests within that two-hour time limit, the failure to
submit automatically constitutes a refusal to submit to the test or tests.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (A)(5) of this section, if a person is
under arrest as described in division (B) of this section, before the person
may be requested to submit to a chemical test or tests to determine the
alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled
substance, or combination content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or
plasma, breath, or urine, the arresting officer shall read the following form
to the person:
      You now are under arrest for (specifically state the offense under state
law or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance for which the person was
arrested – operating a vehicle under the influence of alcohol, a drug, or a
combination of them; operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed
controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance;
operating a vehicle after underage alcohol consumption; or having physical
control of a vehicle while under the influence).
      If you refuse to take any chemical test required by law, your Ohio
driving privileges will be suspended immediately, and you will have to pay a
fee to have the privileges reinstated. If you have a prior conviction of OVI,
OVUAC, or operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed controlled
substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance under state or
municipal law within the preceding 20 years, you are now under arrest for state
OVI, and, if you refuse to take a chemical test, you will face increased
penalties if you subsequently are convicted of the state OVI.
      (Read this part unless the person is under arrest for solely having
physical control of a vehicle while under the influence.) If you take any
chemical test required by law and are found to be at or over the prohibited
amount of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled
substance in your whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine as set
by law, your Ohio driving privileges will be suspended immediately, and you
will have to pay a fee to have the privileges reinstated.
      If you take a chemical test, you may have an independent chemical test
taken at your own expense.
   (D)   If the arresting law enforcement officer does not ask a person under
arrest as described in division (B) of this section or division (A)(5) of this
section to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191 or this
section, the arresting officer shall seize the Ohio or out-of-state driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit of the person and immediately forward it
to the court in which the arrested person is to appear on the charge. If the
arrested person is not in possession of the person’s license or permit or it is
not in the person’s vehicle, the officer shall order the person to surrender it
to the law enforcement agency that employs the officer within 24 hours after
the arrest, and, upon the surrender, the agency immediately shall forward the
license or permit to the court in which the person is to appear on the charge.
Upon receipt of the license or permit, the court shall retain it pending the
arrested person’s initial appearance and any action taken under R.C. §
4511.196.
   (E)   (1)   If a law enforcement officer asks a person under arrest as
described in division (A)(5) of this section to submit to a chemical test or
tests under that division and the test results indicate a prohibited
concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, or urine at the time of the alleged offense, or if a law enforcement
officer asks a person under arrest as described in division (B) of this section
to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191 or this section, if
the officer advises the person in accordance with this section of the
consequences of the person’s refusal or submission, and if either the person
refuses to submit to the test or tests or, unless the arrest was for a
violation of §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the
person submits to the test or tests and the test results indicate a prohibited
concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, or urine at the time of the alleged offense, the arresting officer
shall do all of the following:
         (a)   On behalf of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, notify the person
that, independent of any penalties or sanctions imposed upon the person, the
person’s Ohio driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege is suspended immediately, that the suspension will last at
least until the person’s initial appearance on the charge, which will be held
within five days after the date of the person’s arrest or the issuance of a
citation to the person, and that the person may appeal the suspension at the
initial appearance or during the period of time ending 30 days after that
initial appearance;
         (b)   Seize the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit of
the person and immediately forward it to the Registrar. If the arrested person
is not in possession of the person’s license or permit or it is not in the
person’s vehicle, the officer shall order the person to surrender it to the law
enforcement agency that employs the officer within 24 hours after the person is
given notice of the suspension, and, upon the surrender, the officer’s
employing agency immediately shall forward the license or permit to the
Registrar;
         (c)   Verify the person’s current residence and, if it differs from
that on the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit, notify
the Registrar of the change;
         (d)   Send to the Registrar, within 48 hours after the arrest of the
person, a sworn report that includes all of the following statements:
            1.   That the officer had reasonable grounds to believe that, at
the time of the arrest, the arrested person was operating a vehicle in
violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or a municipal OVI ordinance or for being
in physical control of a stationary vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.194 or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
            2.   That the person was arrested and charged with a violation of
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a municipal OVI ordinance;
            3.   Unless division (E)(1)(d)5. of this section applies, that the
officer asked the person to take the designated chemical test or tests, advised
the person in accordance with this section of the consequences of submitting
to, or refusing to take, the test or tests, and gave the person the form
described in division (C) of this section;
            4.   Unless division (E)(1)(d)5. of this section applies, that
either the person refused to submit to the chemical test or tests or, unless
the arrest was for a violation of R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the person submitted to the chemical test or tests and the
test results indicate a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine at the time of the alleged
offense.
            5.   If the person was under arrest as described in division (A)(5)
of this section and the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance
with that division, that the person was under arrest as described in that
division, that the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance with
that division, and that test results indicated a prohibited concentration of
alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in
the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine at the time
of the alleged offense.
      (2)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
arrested for a violation of §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, who
is asked by a law enforcement officer to submit to a chemical test or tests
under this section, and who submits to the test or tests, regardless of the
amount of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled
substance that the test results indicate is present in the person’s whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
   (F)   The arresting officer shall give the officer’s sworn report that is
completed under this section to the arrested person at the time of the arrest,
or the Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall send the report to the person by
regular first class mail as soon as possible after receipt of the report, but
not later than 14 days after receipt of it. An arresting officer may give an
unsworn report to the arrested person at the time of the arrest provided the
report is complete when given to the arrested person and subsequently is sworn
to by the arresting officer. As soon as possible, but not later than 48 hours
after the arrest of the person, the arresting officer shall send a copy of the
sworn report to the court in which the arrested person is to appear on the
charge for which the person was arrested.
   (G)   The sworn report of an arresting officer completed under this section
is prima facie proof of the information and statements that it contains. It
shall be admitted and considered as prima facie proof of the information and
statements that it contains in any appeal under R.C. § 4511.197 relative to any
suspension of a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege that results from the arrest covered by the
report.
(R.C. § 4511.192) (Rev. 2010)
   (H)   (1)   A suspension of a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit or nonresident operating privilege under this section for the
time described in R.C. § 4511.191(B) or (C) is effective immediately from the
time at which the arresting officer serves the notice of suspension upon the
arrested person. Any subsequent finding that the person is not guilty of the
charge that resulted in the person’s being requested to take the chemical test
or tests under division (A) of this section does not affect the suspension.
      (2)   If a person arrested for operating a vehicle in violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), or any other municipal OVI
ordinance, or for being in physical control of a vehicle in violation of §
73.03 or R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
regardless of whether the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege is or is not suspended under R.C. §
4511.191(B) or (C) or R.C. Chapter 4510, the person’s initial appearance on the
charge resulting from the arrest shall be held within five days of the persons’
arrest or the issuance of the citation to him or her, subject to any
continuance granted by the court pursuant to R.C. § 4511.197 regarding the
issues specified in that section.
(R.C. § 4511.191(D)) (Rev. 2005)
Statutory reference:
Continuous alcohol monitoring, see R.C. § 4511.198
Disposition of fines, immobilization of vehicle and impoundment of license
plates, criminal forfeiture for municipal ordinance conviction, see R.C. §
4511.193
Effect of refusal to submit to test, seizure of license, suspension periods,
appeal procedures, occupational driving privileges, and Indigent Drivers
Alcohol Treatment Funds, see R.C. § 4511.191
Judicial pretrial suspension, initial appearance, see R.C. § 4511.196
Mandatory suspension periods; immobilizing or disabling device; restricted
license, see R.C. § 4510.13
Seizure of vehicles upon arrest, see R.C. § 4511.195
§ 73.03 PHYSICAL CONTROL OF VEHICLE WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (A)   As used in this section, PHYSICAL CONTROL means being in the driver’s
position of the front seat of a vehicle and having possession of the vehicle’s
ignition key or other ignition device.
   (B)   No person shall be in physical control of a vehicle if, at the time of
the physical control, any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a
combination of them.
      (2)   The person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine
contains at least the concentration of alcohol specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(b), (A)(1)(c), (A)(1)(d), or (A)(1)(e).
      (3)   Except as provided in division (E) of this section, the person has
a concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or
urine that equals or exceeds the concentration specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(j).
   (C)   (1)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of this section, if a law enforcement officer has administered a
field sobriety test to the person in physical control of the vehicle involved
in the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for any reliable, credible, and generally acceptable field sobriety
tests that were in effect at the time the tests were administered, including
but not limited to any testing standards then in effect what were set by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply:
         (a)   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
         (b)   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field sobriety
test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal prosecution
or juvenile court proceeding.
         (c)   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this section and if the testimony or
evidence is admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the
testimony or evidence, and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the
trier of fact considers to be appropriate.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not limit or preclude a court,
in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (C)(1) of this section.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of having physical control of
a vehicle while under the influence, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In
addition to other sanctions imposed, the court may impose on the offender a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
   (E)   Division (B)(3) of this section does not apply to a person who is in
physical control of a vehicle while the person has a concentration of a listed
controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance in the
person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds
the amount specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(j) if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
      (2)   The person injected, ingested, or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
(R.C. § 4511.194) (Rev. 2007)
§ 73.04 DRIVING COMMERCIAL VEHICLE WITH IMPAIRED ALERTNESS OR ABILITY; USE OF
DRUGS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle, as defined in R.C. §
4506.01, or a commercial car or commercial tractor, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, while the person’s ability or alertness is so impaired by fatigue,
illness, or other causes that it is unsafe for the person to drive such
vehicle. No driver shall use any drug which would adversely affect the driver’s
ability or alertness.
   (B)   No owner, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, of a commercial motor vehicle,
commercial car or commercial tractor, or a person employing or otherwise
directing the driver of such vehicle, shall require or knowingly permit a
driver in any such condition described in division (A) of this section to drive
such vehicle upon any street or highway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.79, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, or
4511.77 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.79) (Rev. 2004)
§ 73.05 RECKLESS OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any street or highway in willful
or wanton disregard of the safety of persons or property.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.20) (Rev. 2004)
Cross-reference:
License suspension, see §
71.25
§ 73.06 RECKLESS OPERATION OFF STREETS AND HIGHWAYS; COMPETITIVE OPERATION.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any public or private
property other than streets or highways in willful or wanton disregard of the
safety of persons or property.
      (2)   This section does not apply to the competitive operation of
vehicles on public or private property when the owner of such property
knowingly permits such operation thereon.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.201) (Rev. 2004)
Cross-reference:
License suspension, see §
71.25
§ 73.07 OPERATOR TO BE IN REASONABLE CONTROL.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, agricultural tractor, or
agricultural tractor that is towing, pulling, or otherwise drawing a unit of
farm machinery on any street, highway, or property open to the public for
vehicular traffic without being in reasonable control of the vehicle,
agricultural tractor, or unit of farm machinery.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or agricultural tractor without being in control of it, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.202) (Rev. 2008)
§ 73.08 IMMOBILIZING OR DISABLING DEVICE VIOLATION.
   (A)   (1)   No offender who has been granted limited or unlimited driving
privileges, during any period that the offender is required to operate only a
motor vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, shall request
or permit any other person to breathe into the device if it is an ignition
interlock device or another type of device that monitors the concentration of
alcohol in a person’s breath or to otherwise start the motor vehicle equipped
with the device, for the purpose of providing the offender with an operable
motor vehicle.
      (2)   No person shall breathe into an immobilizing or disabling device
that is an ignition interlock device or another type of device that monitors
the concentration of alcohol in a person’s breath or otherwise start a motor
vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, for the purpose of
providing an operable motor vehicle to another person who has been granted
limited or unlimited driving privileges under the condition that the person
operate only a motor vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device.
      (3)   No unauthorized person shall tamper with or circumvent the
operation of an immobilizing or disabling device.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an immobilizing or
disabling device violation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4510.44) (Rev. 2018)
§ 73.09 STREET RACING DEFINED; PROHIBITED ON PUBLIC HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   As used in this section, STREET RACING means the operation of two or
more vehicles from a point side by side at accelerating speeds in a competitive
attempt to outdistance each other, or the operation of one or more vehicles
over a common selected course, from the same point to the same point, wherein
timing is made of the participating vehicles involving competitive
accelerations or speeds. Persons rendering assistance in any manner to such
competitive use of vehicles shall be equally charged as the participants. The
operation of two or more vehicles side by side either at speeds in excess of
prima facie lawful speeds established by R.C. § 4511.21(B)(1)(a) through (B)(9)
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or rapidly accelerating from
a common starting point to a speed in excess of such prima facie lawful speeds
shall be prima facie evidence of street racing.
   (B)   No person shall participate in street racing upon any public road,
street, or highway in this municipality.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of street racing, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition to any other sanctions, the court
shall suspend the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privileges for not less than 30 days or more than three years. No judge shall
suspend the first 30 days of any suspension of an offender’s license, permit,
or privilege imposed under this division.
(R.C. § 4511.251) (Rev. 2018)
§ 73.10 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater or less
than is reasonable or proper, having due regard for the traffic, surface, and
width of the street or highway and any other conditions, and no person shall
drive any motor vehicle in and upon any street or highway at a greater speed
than will permit him or her to bring it to a stop within the assured clear
distance ahead.
   (B)   It is prima facie lawful, in the absence of a lower limit declared or
established pursuant to this section by the Director of Transportation or local
authorities, for the operator of a motor vehicle to operate the same at a speed
not exceeding the following:
      (1)   (a)   Twenty miles per hour in school zones during school recess
and while children are going to or leaving school during the opening or closing
hours, and when 20 miles per hour school speed limit signs are erected, except
that on controlled-access highways and expressways, if the right-of-way line
fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed
by division (B)(4) of this section, and on freeways, if the right-of-way line
fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed
by divisions (B)(10) and (B)(11) of this section. The end of every school zone
may be marked by a sign indicating the end of the zone. Nothing in this section
or in the Manual and Specifications for a Uniform System of Traffic-Control
Devices shall be construed to require school zones to be indicated by signs
equipped with flashing or other lights, or giving other special notice of the
hours in which the school zone speed limit is in effect.
         (b)   As used in this section, SCHOOL means all of the following:
            1.   Any school chartered under R.C. § 3301.16;
            2.   Any nonchartered school that during the preceding year filed
with the Department of Education in compliance with O.A.C. § 3301-35-08, a copy
of the school’s report for the parents of the school’s pupils certifying that
the school meets state minimum standards for nonchartered, nontax-supported
schools and presents evidence of this filing to the jurisdiction from which it
is requesting the establishment of a school zone;
            3.   Any special elementary school that in writing requests the
County Engineer to create a school zone at the location of the school. Upon
receipt of such written request, the County Engineer shall create a school zone
at that location by erecting appropriate signs;
            4.   Any preschool education program operated by an educational
service center that is located on a street or highway with a speed limit of 45
miles per hour or more, when the educational service center in writing requests
that the County Engineer create a school zone at the location of that program.
Upon receipt of such a written request, the County Engineer shall create a
school zone at that location by erecting the appropriate signs.
         (c)   As used in this section, SCHOOL ZONE means that portion of a
street or highway passing a school fronting upon the street or highway that is
encompassed by projecting the school property lines to the fronting street or
highway, and also includes that portion of a state highway. Upon request from
local authorities for streets and highways under their jurisdiction and that
portion of a state highway under the jurisdiction of the Director of
Transportation or a request from a County Engineer in the case of a school zone
for a special elementary school, the Director may extend the traditional school
zone boundaries. The distances in divisions (B)(1)(c)1. through (B)(1)(c)3.
below shall not exceed 300 feet per approach per direction, and are bounded by
whichever of the following distances or combination thereof the Director
approves as most appropriate:
            1.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school building
lines normal to the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            2.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school property
lines intersecting the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            3.   The distance encompassed by the special marking of the
pavement for a principal school pupil crosswalk plus a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction of the highway.
         (d)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the
Director’s initial action on August 9, 1976, establishing all school zones at
the traditional school zone boundaries defined by projecting school property
lines, except when those boundaries are extended as provided in divisions (B)
(1)(a) and (B)(1)(c) of this section.
         (e)   As used in this division, CROSSWALK has the meaning given that
term in R.C. § 4511.01(LL)(2).
         (f)   The Director may, upon request by resolution of the Legislative
Authority and upon submission by the municipality of such engineering, traffic,
and other information as the Director considers necessary, designate a school
zone on any portion of a state route lying within the municipality that
includes a crosswalk customarily used by children going to or leaving a school
during recess and opening and closing hours, whenever the distance, as measured
in a straight line, from the school property line nearest the crosswalk to the
nearest point of a crosswalk is no more than 1,320 feet. Such a school zone
shall include the distance encompassed by the crosswalk and extending 300 feet
in each appropriate direction of the state route.
         (g)   As used in this section, SPECIAL ELEMENTARY SCHOOL means a
school that meets all of the following:
            1.   It is not chartered and does not receive tax revenue from any
source.
            2.   It does not educate children beyond the eighth grade.
            3.   It is located outside the limits of a municipal corporation.
            4.   A majority of the total number of students enrolled at the
school are not related by blood.
            5.   The principal or other person in charge of the special
elementary school annually sends a report to the superintendent of the school
district in which the special elementary school is located indicating the total
number of students enrolled at the school, but otherwise the principal or other
person in charge does not report any other information or data to the
superintendent.
      (2)   Twenty-five miles per hour in all other portions of the
municipality, except on state routes outside business districts, through
highways outside business districts, and alleys;
      (3)   Thirty-five miles per hour on all state routes or through highways
within the municipality outside business districts, except as provided in
divisions (B)(4) and (B)(6) of this section;
      (4)   Fifty miles per hour on controlled-access highways and expressways
within the municipality, except as provided in divisions (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)
(14), (B)(15), and (B)(16) of this section;
      (5)   Fifty-five miles per hour on highways outside the municipality,
other than highways within island jurisdictions as provided in division (B)(8)
of this section, highways as provided in divisions (B)(9) and (B)(10) of this
section, and highways, expressways and freeways as provided in divisions (B)
(12), (B)(13), (B)(14), and (B)(16) of this section;
      (6)   Fifty miles per hour on state routes within the municipality
outside urban districts unless a lower prima facie speed is established as
further provided in this section;
      (7)   Fifteen miles per hour on all alleys within the municipality;
      (8)   Thirty-five miles per hour on highways outside the municipality
that are within an island jurisdiction;
      (9)   Thirty-five miles per hour on through highways, except state
routes, that are outside municipal corporations and that are within a national
park with boundaries extending through two or more counties;
      (10)   Sixty miles per hour on two-lane state routes outside municipal
corporations as established by the Director under R.C. § 4511.21(H)(2);
      (11)   Fifty-five miles per hour on freeways with paved shoulders inside
the municipality, other than freeways as provided in divisions (B)(14) and (B)
(16) of this section;
      (12)   Sixty miles per hour on rural expressways with traffic control
signals and on all portions of rural divided highways, except as provided in
divisions (B)(13) and (B)(14) of this section;
      (13)   Sixty-five miles per hour on all rural expressways without traffic
control signals;
      (14)   Seventy miles per hour on all rural freeways;
      (15)   Fifty-five miles per hour on all portions of freeways or
expressways in congested areas as determined by the Director and that are
located within a municipal corporation or within an interstate freeway
outerbelt, except as provided in division (B)(16) of this section;
      (16)   Sixty-five miles per hour on all portions of freeways or
expressways without traffic control signals in urbanized areas.
   (C)   It is prima facie unlawful for any person to exceed any of the speed
limitations in divisions (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)
(8) and (B)(9) of this section or any declared or established pursuant to this
section by the Director or local authorities and it is unlawful for any person
to exceed any of the speed limitations in division (D) of this section. No
person shall be convicted of more than one violation of this section for the
same conduct, although violations of more than one provision of this section
may be charged in the alternative in a single affidavit.
   (D)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon a street or highway as
follows:
      (1)   At a speed exceeding 55 miles per hour, except upon a two-lane
state route as provided in division (B)(10) of this section and upon a highway,
expressway or freeway as provided in divisions (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)(14), and
(B)(16) of this section;
      (2)   At a speed exceeding 60 miles per hour upon a two-lane state route
as provided in division (B)(10) of this section and upon a highway as provided
in division (B)(12) of this section;
      (3)   At a speed exceeding 65 miles per hour upon an expressway as
provided in division (B)(13) of this section or upon a freeway as provided in
division (B)(16) of this section, except upon a freeway as provided in division
(B)(14) of this section;
      (4)   At a speed exceeding 70 miles per hour upon a freeway as provided
in division (B)(14) of this section;
      (5)   At a speed exceeding the posted speed limit upon a highway,
expressway or freeway for which the Director has determined and declared a
speed limit pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(I)(2) or (L)(2).
   (E)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(E), in every charge of violating this
section, the affidavit and warrant shall specify the time, place and speed at
which the defendant is alleged to have driven, and in charges made in reliance
upon division (C) of this section also the speed which division (B)(1)(a), (B)
(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared
or established pursuant to, this section or R.C. § 4511.21 declares is prima
facie lawful at the time and place of such alleged violation, except that in
affidavits where a person is alleged to have driven at a greater speed than
will permit the person to bring the vehicle to stop within the assured clear
distance ahead, the affidavit and warrant need not specify the speed at which
the defendant is alleged to have driven.
   (F)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(F), when a speed in excess of both a prima
facie limitation and a limitation in division (D) of this section is alleged,
the defendant shall be charged in a single affidavit, alleging a single act,
with a violation indicated of both division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4),
(B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of this section, or of a limit declared or
established pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.21 by the Director or local
authorities, and of the limitation in division (D) of this section. If the
court finds a violation of division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6),
(B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared or established pursuant to,
this section or R.C. § 4511.21 has occurred, it shall enter a judgment of
conviction under such division and dismiss the charge under division (D) of
this section. If it finds no violation of division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3),
(B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared or established
pursuant to, this section or R.C. § 4511.21, it shall then consider whether the
evidence supports a conviction under division (D) of this section.
   (G)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(G), points shall be assessed for a
violation of a limitation under division (D) of this section in accordance with
R.C. § 4510.036.
(R.C. § 4511.21(A) - (G)) (Rev. 2022)
   (H)   Whenever, in accordance with R.C. § 4511.21(H) through (N), the
maximum prima facie speed limitations as established herein have been altered,
either higher or lower, and the appropriate signs giving notice have been
erected as required, operators of motor vehicles shall be governed by the speed
limitations set forth on such signs. It is prima facie unlawful for any person
to exceed the speed limits posted upon such signs.
   (I)   As used in this section:
      COMMERCIAL BUS. Means a motor vehicle designed for carrying more than
nine passengers and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
      DIVIDED. Means a roadway having two or more travel lanes for vehicles
moving in opposite directions and that is separated by a median of more than
four feet, excluding turn lanes.
      INTERSTATE SYSTEM. Has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. § 101.
      NONCOMMERCIAL BUS. Includes but is not limited to a school bus, or a
motor vehicle operated solely for the transportation of persons associated with
a charitable or nonprofit organization.
      OUTERBELT. A portion of a freeway that is part of the interstate system
and is located in the outer vicinity of a major municipal corporation or group
of municipal corporations, as designated by the Director.
      RURAL. Means an area outside urbanized areas and outside of a business or
urban district, and areas that extend within urbanized areas where the roadway
characteristics remain mostly unchanged from those outside the urbanized areas.
      URBANIZED AREA. Has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. § 101.
(R.C. § 4511.21(O)) (Rev. 2020)
   (J)   Speed limits for private roads and driveways.
      (1)   The owner of a private road or driveway located in a private
residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units may establish a speed
limit on the road or driveway by complying with all of the following
requirements:
         (a)   The speed limit is not less than 25 miles per hour and is
indicated by a sign that is in a proper position, is sufficiently legible to be
seen by an ordinarily observant person, and meets the specifications for the
basic speed limit sign included in the manual adopted by the Department of
Transportation pursuant to R.C. § 4511.09;
         (b)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road
or driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road
or driveway that they are entering private property, a speed limit has been
established for the road or driveway, and the speed limit is enforceable by law
enforcement officers under state law.
      (2)   No person shall operate a vehicle upon a private road or driveway
as provided in division (J)(1) of this section at a speed exceeding any speed
limit established and posted pursuant to division (J)(1).
      (3)   When a speed limit is established and posted in accordance with
division (J)(1) of this section, a law enforcement officer may apprehend a
person violating the speed limit of the residential area by utilizing any of
the means described in R.C. § 4511.091 or by any other accepted method of
determining the speed of a motor vehicle and may stop and charge the person
with exceeding the speed limit.
      (4)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.211(D), points shall be assessed for
violation of a speed limit established and posted in accordance with division
(J)(1) of this section in accordance with R.C. § 4510.036.
      (5)   As used in this division (J):
         OWNER. Includes but is not limited to a person who holds title to the
real property in fee simple, a condominium owners’ association, a property
owners’ association, a board of directors or trustees of a private community,
and a nonprofit corporation governing a private community.
         PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL AREA CONTAINING 20 OR MORE DWELLING UNITS. Does
not include a Chautauqua assembly as defined in R.C. § 4511.90.
(R.C. § 4511.211(A) - (E)) (Rev. 2004)
   (K)   Penalties.
      (1)   Divisions (A) through (I).
         (a)   A violation of any provision of divisions (A) through (I) of
this section is one of the following:
            1.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (K)(1)(a)2., (K)(1)
(a)3., (K)(1)(b), and (K)(1)(c) of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
            2.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of any provision of
divisions (A) through (I) of this section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any provision of
any other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any provision
of that section, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
            3.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of any
provision of divisions (A) through (I) of this section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any
provision of any other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to
any provision of that section, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         (b)   If the offender has not previously been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of any provision of division (A) through (I) of this
section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any other municipal ordinance that is substantially
equivalent to any provision of that section, and operated a motor vehicle
faster than 35 miles an hour in a business district of the municipality, faster
than 50 miles an hour in other portions of the municipality, or faster than 35
miles an hour in a school zone during recess or while children are going to or
leaving school during the school’s opening or closing hours, a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
         (c)   Notwithstanding division (K)(1)(a) of this section, if the
offender operated a motor vehicle in a construction zone where a sign was then
posted in accordance with R.C. § 4511.98, the court, in addition to all other
penalties provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a fine of two times
the usual amount imposed for the violation. No court shall impose a fine of two
times the usual amount imposed for the violation upon an offender if the
offender alleges, in an affidavit filed with the court prior to the offender’s
sentencing, that the offender is indigent and is unable to pay the fine imposed
pursuant to this division and if the court determines that the offender is an
indigent person and unable to pay the fine.
         (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.21(P)) (Rev. 2019)
      (2)   Division (J).
         (a)   A violation of division (J)(2) of this section is one of the
following:
            1.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (K)(2)(a)2. and (K)
(2)(a)3. of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
            2.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division (J)(2) of
this section, R.C. § 4511.211(B), or any other municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to that division, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
            3.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of division
(J)(2) of this section, R.C. § 4511.211(B), or any other municipal ordinance
that is substantially equivalent to that division, a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
         (b)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.211(F)) (Rev. 2019)
Statutory reference:
Alteration of speed limits with approval of Director, see R.C. § 4511.21(H)
through (N)
Arrest pending warrant when radar, electrical or mechanical timing device used
to determine violation, see R.C. § 4511.091
§ 73.11 SLOW SPEED OR STOPPING.
   (A)   No person shall stop or operate a vehicle at such an unreasonably slow
speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic,
except when stopping or reduced speed is necessary for safe operation or to
comply with law.
   (B)   Whenever the Director of Transportation or local authorities determine
on the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation that slow speeds on
any part of a controlled-access highway, expressway, or freeway consistently
impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, the Director or such
local authority may declare a minimum speed limit below which no person shall
operate a motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe operation or in
compliance with the law. No minimum speed limit established hereunder shall be
less than 30 miles per hour, greater than 50 miles per hour, nor effective
until the provisions of R.C. § 4511.21 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, relating to appropriate signs, have been fulfilled and local
authorities have obtained the approval of the Director.
   (C)   In a case involving a violation of this section, the trier of fact, in
determining whether the vehicle was being operated at an unreasonably slow
speed, shall consider the capabilities of the vehicle and its operator.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.22) (Rev. 2019)
§ 73.12 EMERGENCY VEHICLES EXCEPTED FROM SPEED LIMITATION.
   The prima facie speed limitations set forth in R.C. § 4511.21 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance do not apply to emergency vehicles
or public safety vehicles when they are responding to emergency calls and are
equipped with and displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating
light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet
to the front of the vehicle, and when the drivers thereof sound audible signals
by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle. This section does not relieve the driver of
an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons using the street or highway.
(R.C. § 4511.24) (Rev. 1999)
§ 73.13 SPEED REGULATIONS ON BRIDGES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle over any bridge or other
elevated structure constituting a part of a highway at a speed which is greater
than the maximum speed that can be maintained with safety to such bridge or
structure, when such structure is posted with signs as provided in this
section.
      (2)   The Department of Transportation upon request from any local
authority shall, or upon its own initiative may, conduct an investigation of
any bridge or other elevated structure constituting a part of a highway, and if
it finds that such structure cannot with safety withstand traffic traveling at
the speed otherwise permissible under this Traffic Code, the Department shall
determine and declare the maximum speed of traffic which such structure can
withstand, and shall cause or permit suitable signs stating such maximum speed
to be erected and maintained at a distance of a least 100 feet before each end
of the structure.
      (3)   Upon the trial of any person charged with a violation of this
section, proof of such determination of the maximum speed by the Department and
the existence of such signs shall constitute prima facie evidence of the
maximum speed which can be maintained with safety to such bridge or structure.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.23) (Rev. 2019)
§ 73.14 PRESENTING FALSE NAME OR INFORMATION TO OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly present, display, or orally communicate a
false name, social security number, or date of birth to a law enforcement
officer who is in the process of issuing to the person a traffic ticket or
complaint.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4513.361) (Rev. 2004)
§ 73.15 PROHIBITION AGAINST RESISTING OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall resist, hinder, obstruct, or abuse any sheriff,
constable, or other official while that official is attempting to arrest
offenders under any provision of this Title VII. No person shall interfere with
any person charged under any provision of this Title VII with the enforcement
of the law relative to public highways.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.36) (Rev. 2004)
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance, or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
§ 73.16 OPERATION RESTRICTED FOR MINI- TRUCKS AND LOW-SPEED, UNDER-SPEED, OR
UTILITY VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a low-speed vehicle upon any street or
highway having an established speed limit greater than 35 miles per hour.
      (2)   No person shall operate an under-speed or utility vehicle or a
mini-truck upon any street or highway except as follows:
         (a)   Upon a street or highway having an established speed limit not
greater than 35 miles per hour and only upon such streets or highways where the
municipality has granted permission for such operation in accordance with
division (E) of this section;
         (b)   A state park or political subdivision employee or volunteer
operating a utility vehicle exclusively within the boundaries of state parks or
political subdivision parks for the operation or maintenance of state or
political subdivision park facilities.
      (3)   No person shall operate a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter upon
any street or highway having an established speed limit greater than 45 miles
per hour.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   A person operating a low-speed, under- speed, or utility vehicle or
a mini-truck from proceeding across an intersection of a street or highway
having a speed limit greater than 35 miles per hour;
      (2)   A person operating a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter from
proceeding across an intersection of a street or highway having a speed limit
greater than 45 miles per hour.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the municipality from adopting
more stringent local ordinances, resolutions, or regulations governing the
operation of a low- speed vehicle or a mini-truck, or a motor-driven cycle or
motor scooter.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.214) (Rev. 2014)
   (E)   By ordinance or resolution, the municipality may authorize the
operation of under-speed or utility vehicles or mini-trucks on a public street
or highway under its jurisdiction. The municipality shall do all of the
following:
      (1)   Limit the operation of those vehicles to streets and highways
having an established speed limit not greater than 35 miles per hour;
      (2)   Require the vehicle owner who wishes to operate an under-speed or
utility vehicle or a mini-truck on the public streets or highways to submit the
vehicle to an inspection conducted by a local law enforcement agency that
complies with inspection requirements established by the Department of Public
Safety under R.C. § 4513.02;
      (3)   Permit the operation on public streets or highways of only those
vehicles that successfully pass the required vehicle inspection, are registered
in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4503, and are titled in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 4505;
      (4)   Notify the Director of Public Safety, in a manner the Director
determines, of the authorization for the operation of under-speed or utility
vehicles or mini-trucks.
   (F)   The municipality may establish additional requirements for the
operation of under-speed or utility vehicles or mini-trucks on its streets and
highways.
(R.C. § 4511.215) (Rev. 2014)
   (G)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (F) of this section, a person
may operate a utility vehicle on any public roads or right-of-way, other than a
freeway, when traveling from one farm field to another for agricultural
purposes if the vehicle is displaying a triangular slow-moving vehicle emblem
as described in R.C. § 4513.11.
(R.C. § 4511.216) (Rev. 2018)
   (H)   (1)   Except as provided in this division (H) and divisions (E) and
(F) of this section, no person shall operate a mini-truck within this
municipality.
      (2)   A person may operate a mini-truck on a farm for agricultural
purposes only when the owner of the farm qualifies for the current agricultural
use valuation tax credit. A mini-truck may be operated by or on behalf of such
a farm owner on public roads and rights-of-way only when traveling from one
farm field to another.
      (3)   A person may operate a mini-truck on property owned or leased by a
dealer who sells mini-trucks at retail.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (H) shall be penalized as provided
in division (D) of this section.
(R.C. § 4519.401) (Rev. 2014)
STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT
§ 73.30 FAILURE TO STOP AFTER ACCIDENT.
   (A)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision with
persons or property on a public road or highway, the operator of the motor
vehicle, having knowledge of the accident or collision, immediately shall stop
the operator’s motor vehicle at the scene of the accident or collision. The
operator shall remain at the scene of the accident or collision until the
operator has given the operator’s name and address and, if the operator is not
the owner, the name and address of the owner of that motor vehicle, together
with the registered number of that motor vehicle, to all of the following:
         (a)   Any person injured in the accident or collision;
         (b)   The operator, occupant, owner, or attendant of any motor vehicle
damaged in the accident or collision;
         (c)   The police officer at the scene of the accident or collision.
      (2)   In the event an injured person is unable to comprehend and record
the information required to be given under division (A)(1) of this section, the
other operator involved in the accident or collision shall notify the nearest
police authority concerning the location of the accident or collision, and the
operator’s name, address, and the registered number of the motor vehicle the
operator was operating. The operator shall remain at the scene of the accident
or collision until a police officer arrives, unless removed from the scene by
an emergency vehicle operated by a political subdivision or an ambulance.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required to be given in this section, in writing, to a
conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident. Except as otherwise provided in division (B)
(2) or (B)(3) of this section, failure to stop after an accident is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six months
of suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege required by this
division.
      (5)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.02) (Rev. 2017)
§ 73.31 STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT ON OTHER THAN PUBLIC ROADS OR HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision resulting
in injury or damage to persons or property on any public or private property
other than a public road or highway, the operator of the motor vehicle, having
knowledge of the accident or collision, shall stop at the scene of the accident
or collision. Upon request of any person who is injured or damaged, or any
other person, the operator shall give that person the operator’s name and
address, and, if the operator is not the owner, the name and address of the
owner of that motor vehicle, together with the registered number of that motor
vehicle, and, if available, exhibit the operator’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license.
      (2)   If the operator of the motor vehicle involved in the accident or
collision does not provide the information specified in division (A)(1) of this
section, the operator shall give that information, within 24 hours after the
accident or collision, to the police department of the city or village in which
the accident or collision occurred, or if it occurred outside the corporate
limits of a city or village, to the sheriff of the county in which the accident
or collision occurred.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required under division (A)(1) of this section, in
writing, to a conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor
vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident. Except as otherwise provided
in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this section, failure to stop after a nonpublic
road accident is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six months
of suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege required by this
division.
      (5)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.021) (Rev. 2017)
§ 73.32 ACCIDENT INVOLVING DAMAGE TO REALTY.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in
damage to real property, or personal property attached to real property,
legally upon or adjacent to a public road or highway immediately shall stop and
take reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge of the
property of that fact, of the driver’s name and address, and of the
registration number of vehicle the driver is driving and, upon request and if
available, shall exhibit the driver’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (2)   If the owner or person in charge of the property cannot be located
after reasonable search, the driver of the vehicle involved in the accident
resulting in damage to the property, within 24 hours after accident, shall
forward to the police department of the municipality the same information
required to be given to the owner or person in control of the property and give
the location of the accident and a description of the damage insofar as it is
known.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident involving the property of others, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or
after committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.03) (Rev. 2012)
§ 73.33 FAILURE TO REPORT ACCIDENT.
   (A)   No person shall fail to report a motor vehicle accident as required
under state or local law.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4509.74) (Rev. 2004)
CHAPTER 74: EQUIPMENT AND LOADS
Section
Equipment
   
74.01   Unsafe vehicles, prohibition against operation
   
74.02   Bumpers on motor vehicles
   
74.03   Lighted lights required
   
74.04   Headlights
   
74.05   Tail lights and illumination of rear license plate
   
74.06   Red reflectors required
   
74.07   Safety lighting of commercial vehicles
   
74.08   Stoplight regulations
   
74.09   Obscured lights on vehicles
   
74.10   Red light or flag required
   
74.11   Lights on parked vehicles
   
74.12   Lights and emblem on slow-moving vehicles; lights and reflectors on
multi- wheel agricultural tractors or farm machinery
   
74.13   Spotlight and auxiliary driving lights
   
74.14   Cowl, fender, and back-up lights
   
74.15   Two lights displayed
   
74.16   Headlights required
   
74.17   Lights of less intensity
   
74.18   Number of lights permitted; red and flashing lights
   
74.19   Standards for lights on snow removal equipment and oversize vehicles
   
74.20   Flashing lights permitted for certain types of vehicles
   
74.21   Lights and sign on transportation for preschool children
   
74.22   Focus and aim of headlights
   
74.23   Brake equipment; specifications
   
74.24   Brake fluid
   
74.25   Minimum standards for brakes and components
   
74.26   Horns, sirens, and warning devices
   
74.27   Mufflers; excessive smoke or gas
   
74.28   Rearview mirrors
   
74.29   Windshields and wipers
   
74.30   Solid tire requirements
   
74.31   Requirements for safety glass in motor vehicles; use of tinted glass or
reflectorized material
   
74.32   Directional signals
   
74.33   Installation and sale of seat safety belts required; definition
   
74.34   Requirements for extra signal equipment
   
74.35   Display of warning devices on disabled vehicles
   
74.36   Requirements for vehicles transporting explosives
   
74.37   Studded tires; seasonal use permitted
   
74.38   Safety inspection decals for buses
   
74.39   Air bags
Loads
   
74.50   Permit required to exceed load limits
   
74.51   Limitation of load extension on left side of vehicle
   
74.52   All loads shall be properly secured
   
74.53   Towing requirements; exception to size and weight restrictions
   
74.54   Weighing of vehicle; removal of excess load
   
74.55   Operation of vehicle exceeding weight limits prohibited
   
74.56   Load limits
   
74.57   Maximum width, height, and length
   
74.58   Statement of gross vehicle weight
   
74.59   Wheel protectors required on heavy commercial vehicles
   
74.60   Liability for damages; prosecution; application of monies
   
74.61   Weight exceptions for certain vehicles
Statutory reference:
Exemption of certain vehicles from emission, noise control and fuel standards,
see R.C. § 4513.41
Exemption of collector’s or historical vehicles from equipment standards, see
R.C. § 4513.38
Motorcycles, protective eye devices required for operators and passengers;
helmets required for persons under 18 years of age, see O.A.C. § 4501-17-01
Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
Snowmobiles and all-purpose vehicles, equipment, see O.A.C. § 4501-29-01
Vehicle lighting, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-15
EQUIPMENT
§ 74.01 UNSAFE VEHICLES, PROHIBITION AGAINST OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall drive or move, or cause or knowingly permit to be
driven or moved, on any highway any vehicle or combination of vehicles which is
in such unsafe condition as to endanger any person.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.02(A), (H)) (Rev. 2013)
§ 74.02 BUMPERS ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING. Means the manufacturer’s gross vehicle
weight rating established for that vehicle.
      MANUFACTURER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      MULTIPURPOSE PASSENGER VEHICLE. Means a motor vehicle with motive power,
except a motorcycle, designed to carry ten persons or less, that is constructed
either on a truck chassis or with special features for occasional off-road
operation.
      PASSENGER CAR. Means any motor vehicle with motive power, designed for
carrying ten persons or less, except a multipurpose passenger vehicle or
motorcycle.
      TRUCK. Means every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers,
designed and used to carry property and having a gross vehicle weight rating of
10,000 pounds or less.
   (B)   Rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety, in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 119, shall govern the maximum bumper height or, in the absence of
bumpers and in cases where bumper height have been lowered or modified, the
maximum height to the bottom of the frame rail of any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck.
   (C)   No person shall operate upon a street or highway any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck registered in this state that does not
conform to the requirements of this section or any applicable rule adopted
pursuant to R.C. § 4513.021.
   (D)   No person shall modify any motor vehicle registered in this state in
such a manner as to cause the vehicle body or chassis to come in contact with
the ground, expose the fuel tank to damage from collision, or cause the wheels
to come in contact with the body under normal operation, and no person shall
disconnect any part of the original suspension system of the vehicle to defeat
the safe operation of that system.
   (E)   Nothing contained in this section or in the rules adopted pursuant to
R.C. § 4513.021 shall be construed to prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   The installation upon a passenger car, multipurpose passenger
vehicle or truck registered in this state of heavy duty equipment, including
shock absorbers and overload springs:
      (2)   The operation on a street or highway of a passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle, or truck registered in this state with normal
wear to the suspension system if the normal wear does not adversely affect the
control of the vehicle.
   (F)   This section and the rules adopted pursuant to R.C. § 4513.021 do not
apply to any specially designed or modified passenger car, multipurpose
passenger vehicle, or truck when operated off a street or highway in races and
similar events.
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.021) (Rev. 2013)
Statutory reference:
Maximum height on bumpers, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-43
§ 74.03 LIGHTED LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every vehicle, other than a motorized bicycle, operated upon a street
or highway within this state shall display lighted lights and illuminating
devices as required by R.C. §§ 4513.04 to 4513.37 during all of the following
times:
      (1)   The time from sunset to sunrise;
      (2)   At any other time when, due to insufficient natural light or
unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons, vehicles, and substantial objects
on the highway are not discernible at a distance of 1,000 feet ahead;
      (3)   At any time when the windshield wipers of the vehicle are in use
because of precipitation on the windshield.
   (B)   Every motorized bicycle shall display at such times lighted lights
meeting the rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under R.C. §
4511.521. No motor vehicle, during any time specified in this section, shall be
operated upon a street or highway within this state using only parking lights
as illumination.
   (C)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the distance
from which certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible, or within
which such lamps or devices shall be visible, such distance shall be measured
upon a straight level unlighted highway under normal atmospheric conditions
unless a different condition is expressly stated.
   (D)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the mounted
height of lights or devices, it shall mean from the center of such light or
device to the level ground upon which the vehicle stands.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a vehicle being operated upon a
street or highway within this state to stop the vehicle solely because the
officer observes that a violation of division (A)(3) of this section has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of that division, or causing the arrest of or
commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of that division.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.03) (Rev. 2010)
§ 74.04 HEADLIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, shall be equipped
with at least two headlights with at least one near each side of the front of
the motor vehicle.
      (2)   Every motorcycle shall be equipped with at least one and not more
than two headlights.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.04) (Rev. 2010)
§ 74.05 TAIL LIGHTS AND ILLUMINATION OF REAR LICENSE PLATE.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, pole trailer or
vehicle which is being drawn at the end of a train of vehicles shall be
equipped with at least one tail light mounted on the rear which, when lighted,
shall emit a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear,
provided that in the case of a train of vehicles only the tail light on the
rearmost vehicle need be visible from the distance specified.
      (2)   Either a tail light or a separate light shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate, when
such registration plate is required, and render it legible from a distance of
50 feet to the rear. Any tail light, together with any separate light for
illuminating the rear registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted
whenever the headlights or auxiliary driving lights are lighted, except where
separate lighting systems are provided for trailers for the purpose of
illuminating such registration plate.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.05) (Rev. 2010)
§ 74.06 RED REFLECTORS REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Every new motor vehicle sold after September 6, 1941, and
operated on a highway, other than a commercial tractor to which a trailer or
semitrailer is attached, shall carry at the rear, either as a part of the tail
lamps or separately, two red reflectors meeting the requirements of this
section, except that vehicles of the type mentioned in R.C. § 4513.07 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall be equipped with reflectors
as required by the regulations provided for in that section.
      (2)   Every such reflector shall be of such size and characteristics and
so maintained as to be visible at night from all distances within 300 feet to
50 feet from such vehicle.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.06) (Rev. 2010)
§ 74.07 SAFETY LIGHTING OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   When the Director of Public Safety prescribes and promulgates
regulations relating to clearance lights, marker lights, reflectors and stop
lights on buses, trucks, commercial tractors, trailers, semitrailers and pole
trailers, when operated upon any highway, these vehicles shall be equipped as
required by such regulations, and such equipment shall be lighted at all times
mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
except that clearance lights and side marker lights need not be lighted on any
such vehicle when it is operated within the municipality where there is
sufficient light to reveal any person or substantial object on the highway at a
distance of 500 feet.
      (2)   Such equipment shall be in addition to all other lights
specifically required by R.C. §§ 4513.03 through 4513.16, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinances.
      (3)   Vehicles operated under the jurisdiction of the Public Utilities
Commission are not subject to this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.07) (Rev. 2010)
§ 74.08 STOPLIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, and pole trailer when
operated upon a highway shall be equipped with two or more stop lights, except
that passenger cars manufactured or assembled prior to January 1, 1967,
motorcycles, and motor-driven cycles shall be equipped with at least one stop
light. Stop lights shall be mounted on the rear of the vehicle, actuated upon
application of the service brake, and may be incorporated with other rear
lights. Such stop lights when actuated shall emit a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear; provided that in the case of a train of
vehicles only the stop lights on the rearmost vehicle need be visible from the
distance specified.
      (2)   Such stop lights when actuated shall give a steady warning light to
the rear of a vehicle or train of vehicles to indicate the intention of the
operator to diminish the speed of or stop a vehicle or train of vehicles.
      (3)   When stop lights are used as required by this section, they shall
be constructed or installed so as to provide adequate and reliable illumination
and shall conform to the appropriate rules and regulations established under
R.C. § 4513.19.
      (4)   Historical motor vehicles as defined in R.C. § 4503.181, not
originally manufactured with stop lights, are not subject to this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.071) (Rev. 2010)
§ 74.09 OBSCURED LIGHTS ON VEHICLES.
   Whenever motor and other vehicles are operated in combination during the
time that lights are required, any light, except tail lights, which by reason
of its location on a vehicle of the combination would be obscured by another
vehicle of the combination, need not be lighted, but this section does not
affect the requirement that lighted clearance lights be displayed on the front
of the foremost vehicle required to have clearance lights or that all lights
required on the rear of the rearmost vehicle of any combination shall be
lighted.
(R.C. § 4513.08)
§ 74.10 RED LIGHT OR FLAG REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet or
more beyond the bed or body of this vehicle, there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of the load, at the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, a red light or lantern plainly
visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the sides and rear. The red
light or lantern required by this section is in addition to the red rear light
required upon every vehicle. At any other time there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of such load a red flag or cloth not less than 16 inches
square.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.09) (Rev. 2010)
§ 74.11 LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Except in case of an emergency, whenever a vehicle is parked or
stopped upon a roadway open to traffic or a shoulder adjacent thereto, whether
attended or unattended, during the times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, such vehicle shall be equipped
with one or more lights which shall exhibit a white or amber light on the
roadway side visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle,
and a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear. No lights need
be displayed upon any such vehicle when it is stopped or parked within the
municipality where there is sufficient light to reveal any person or
substantial object within a distance of 500 feet upon such highway. Any lighted
headlights upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or dimmed.
(R.C. § 4513.10) (Rev. 1999)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99) (Rev. 2013)
§ 74.12 LIGHTS AND EMBLEM ON SLOW- MOVING VEHICLES; LIGHTS AND REFLECTORS ON
MULTI-WHEEL AGRICULTURAL TRACTORS OR FARM MACHINERY.
   (A)   All vehicles other than bicycles, including animal- drawn vehicles and
vehicles referred to in R.C. § 4513.02(G), not specifically required to be
equipped with lamps or other lighting devices by R.C. §§ 4513.03 through
4513.10, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, shall, at the
times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, be equipped with at least one lamp displaying a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the front of the vehicle and
also shall be equipped with two lamps displaying red light visible from a
distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the rear of the vehicle, or as an
alternative, one lamp displaying a red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear and two red reflectors visible from all
distances of 600 feet to 100 feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful
lower beams of headlamps. Lamps and reflectors required by this section shall
meet standards adopted by the Director of Public Safety.
   (B)   All boat trailers, farm machinery and other machinery, including all
road construction machinery, upon a street or highway, except when being used
in actual construction and maintenance work in an area guarded by a flagperson,
or where flares are used, or when operating or traveling within the limits of a
construction area designated by the Director of Transportation, a city or
village engineer, or the county engineer of the several counties, when such
construction area is marked in accordance with requirements of the Director and
the Manual and Specifications for a Uniform System of Traffic-Control Devices,
as set forth in R.C. § 4511.09, which is designed for operation at a speed of
25 miles per hour or less, shall be operated at a speed not exceeding 25 miles
per hour, and shall display a triangular slow-moving vehicle emblem (SMV). The
emblem shall be mounted so as to be visible from a distance of not less than
500 feet to the rear. The Director of Public Safety shall adopt standards and
specifications for the design and position of mounting the SMV emblem. The
standards and specifications for SMV emblems referred to in this section shall
correlate with and, so far as possible, conform with those approved by the
American Society of Agricultural Engineers. A unit of farm machinery that is
designed by its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per
hour may be operated on a street or highway at a speed greater than 25 miles
per hour provided it is operated in accordance with this section. As used in
this division, “machinery” does not include any vehicle designed to be drawn by
an animal.
   (C)   The use of the SMV emblem shall be restricted to animal-drawn vehicles
and to the slow-moving vehicles specified in division (B) of this section
operating or traveling within the limits of the highway. Its use on slow-moving
vehicles being transported upon other types of vehicles or on any other type of
vehicle or stationary object on the highway is prohibited.
   (D)   (1)   No person shall sell, lease, rent or operate any boat trailer,
farm machinery or other machinery defined as a slow-moving vehicle in division
(B) of this section, except those units designed to be completely mounted on a
primary power unit, which is manufactured or assembled on or after April 1,
1966, unless the vehicle is equipped with a slow-moving vehicle emblem mounting
device as specified in division (B) of this section.
      (2)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate on a street or
highway any unit of farm machinery that is designed by its manufacturer to
operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless the unit displays a
slow- moving vehicle emblem as specified in division (B) of this section and a
speed identification symbol that meets the specifications contained in the
American Society of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S584 JAN2005,
Agricultural Equipment: Speed Identification Symbol (SIS).
   (E)   Any boat trailer, farm machinery or other machinery defined as a slow-
moving vehicle in division (B) of this section, in addition to the use of the
slow-moving vehicle emblem, and any unit of farm machinery that is designed by
its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour, in
addition to the display of a speed identification symbol, may be equipped with
a red flashing light that shall be visible from a distance of not less than
1,000 feet to the rear at all times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance. When a double-faced light is
used, it shall display amber light to the front and red light to the rear. In
addition to the lights described in this division, farm machinery and motor
vehicles escorting farm machinery may display a flashing, oscillating or
rotating amber light, as permitted by R.C. § 4513.17 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and also may display simultaneously flashing
turn signals or warning lights, as permitted by that section.
   (F)   (1)   Every animal-drawn vehicle upon a street or highway shall at all
times be equipped in one of the following ways:
         (a)   With a slow-moving vehicle emblem complying with division (B) of
this section;
         (b)   With alternate reflective material complying with rules adopted
under division (F)(2) below;
         (c)   With both a slow-moving vehicle emblem and alternate reflective
material as specified in division (F)(2) below.
      (2)   Rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety, subject to R.C.
Chapter 119, establishing standards and specifications for the position of
mounting of the alternate reflective material authorized by this division,
permit, as a minimum, the alternate reflective material to be black, gray, or
silver in color. The alternate reflective material shall be mounted on the
animal-drawn vehicle so as to be visible, at all times specified in R.C. §
4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, from a distance of
not less than 500 feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful lower beams
of headlamps.
   (G)   (1)   Every unit of farm machinery that is designed by its
manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour shall display
a slow-moving vehicle emblem and a speed identification symbol that meets the
specifications contained in the American Society of Agricultural Engineers
Standard ANSI/ASAE S584 JAN2005, Agricultural Equipment: Speed Identification
Symbol (SIS) when the unit is operated upon a street or highway, irrespective
of the speed at which the unit is operated on the street or highway. The speed
identification symbol shall indicate the maximum speed in miles per hour at
which the unit of farm machinery is designed by its manufacturer to operate.
The display of the speed identification symbol shall be in accordance with the
standard prescribed in this division.
      (2)   If an agricultural tractor that is designed by its manufacturer to
operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour is being operated on a street
or highway at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour and is towing, pulling, or
otherwise drawing a unit of farm machinery, the unit of farm machinery shall
display a slow-moving vehicle emblem and a speed identification symbol that is
the same as the speed identification symbol that is displayed on the
agricultural tractor.
   (H)   When an agricultural tractor that is designed by its manufacturer to
operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour is being operated on a street
or highway at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour, the operator shall
possess some documentation published or provided by the manufacturer indicating
the maximum speed in miles per hour at which the manufacturer designed the
agricultural tractor to operate.
   (I)   As used in this section, BOAT TRAILER means any vehicle designed and
used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage and a marina,
or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or highway for a
distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less.
(R.C. § 4513.11) (Rev. 2008)
   (J)   Lights and reflector requirements for multi-wheel agricultural
tractors or farm machinery.
      (1)   (a)   Every multi-wheel agricultural tractor whose model year was
2001 or earlier, when being operated or traveling on a street or highway at the
times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, at a minimum shall be equipped with and display reflectors and
illuminated amber lamps so that the extreme left and right projections of the
tractor are indicated by flashing lamps displaying amber light, visible to the
front and the rear; by amber reflectors, all visible to the front; and by red
reflectors, all visible to the rear.
         (b)   The lamps displaying amber light need not flash simultaneously
and need not flash in conjunction with any directional signals of the tractor.
         (c)   The lamps and reflectors required by division (J)(1)(a) of this
section and their placement shall meet standards and specifications contained
in rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 119. The rules governing the amber lamps, amber reflectors, and red
reflectors and their placement shall correlate with and, as far as possible,
conform with paragraphs 4.1.4.1, 4.1.7.1, and 4.1.7.2, respectively, of the
American Society of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S279.10 OCT98,
Lighting and Marking of Agricultural Equipment on Highways.
      (2)   Every unit of farm machinery whose model year was 2002 or later,
when being operated or traveling on a street or highway at the times specified
in R.C. § 4513.03, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be
equipped with and display markings and illuminated lamps that meet or exceed
the lighting, illumination, and marking standards and specifications that are
applicable to that type of farm machinery for the unit’s model year specified
in the American Society of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S279.11
APR01, Lighting and Marking of Agricultural Equipment on Highways, or any
subsequent revisions of that standard.
      (3)   The lights and reflectors required by division (J)(1) of this
section are in addition to the slow- moving vehicle emblem and lights required
or permitted by R.C. § 4513.11 or 4513.17, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, to be displayed on farm machinery being operated or
traveling on a street or highway.
      (4)   No person shall operate any unit of farm machinery on a street or
highway or cause any unit of farm machinery to travel on a street or highway in
violation of divisions (J)(1) or (J)(2) of this section.
(R.C. § 4513.111) (Rev. 2004)
   (K)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4513.11(I), 4513.111(E)) (Rev. 2010)
§ 74.13 SPOTLIGHT AND AUXILIARY DRIVING LIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one
spotlight and every lighted spotlight shall be so aimed and used upon
approaching another vehicle that no part of the high-intensity portion of the
beam will be directed to the left of the prolongation of the extreme left side
of the vehicle, nor more than 100 feet ahead of the vehicle.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than three
auxiliary driving lights mounted on the front of the vehicle. Any such lights
which do not conform to the specifications for auxiliary driving lights and the
regulations for their use prescribed by the Director of Public Safety shall not
be used.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.12) (Rev. 2010)
§ 74.14 COWL, FENDER, AND BACK-UP LIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with side cowl or fender
lights which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with lights on each side thereof
which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (3)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with back-up lights, either
separately or in combination with another light. No back-up lights shall be
continuously lighted when the motor vehicle is in forward motion.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.13) (Rev. 2010)
§ 74.15 TWO LIGHTS DISPLAYED.
   (A)   At all times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, at least two lighted lights shall be displayed, one near
each side of the front of every motor vehicle, except when such vehicle is
parked subject to the regulations governing lights on parked vehicles.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.14) (Rev. 2010)
§ 74.16 HEADLIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated on a roadway or shoulder
adjacent thereto during the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the driver shall use a
distribution of light, or composite beam, directed high enough and of
sufficient intensity to reveal persons, vehicles and substantial objects at a
safe distance in advance of the vehicle, subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle,
such driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam, so aimed that
the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the oncoming driver.
      (2)   Every new motor vehicle registered in this state which has
multiple-beam road lighting equipment shall be equipped with a beam indicator,
which shall be lighted whenever the uppermost distribution of light from the
headlights is in use, and shall not otherwise be lighted. This indicator shall
be so designed and located that, when lighted, it will be readily visible
without glare to the driver of the vehicle.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.15) (Rev. 2010)
§ 74.17 LIGHTS OF LESS INTENSITY.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle may be operated under the conditions specified in
R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance when it is
equipped with two lighted lights upon the front thereof capable of revealing
persons and substantial objects 75 feet ahead, in lieu of lights required in
R.C. § 4513.14 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, provided that
such vehicle shall not be operated at a speed in excess of 20 miles per hour.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.16) (Rev. 2010)
§ 74.18 NUMBER OF LIGHTS PERMITTED; RED AND FLASHING LIGHTS.
   (A)   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with headlights is also equipped
with any auxiliary lights or spotlight or any other light on the front thereof
projecting a beam of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower, not more than a
total of five of any such lights on the front of a vehicle shall be lighted at
any one time when the vehicle is upon a highway.
   (B)   Any lighted light or illuminating device upon a motor vehicle, other
than headlights, spotlights, signal lights, or auxiliary driving lights, that
projects a beam of light of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower shall be
so directed that no part of the beam will strike the level of the roadway on
which the vehicle stands at a distance of more than 75 feet from the vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   Flashing lights are prohibited on motor vehicles, except as a
means for indicating a right or a left turn, or in the presence of vehicular
traffic hazard requiring unusual care in approaching, or overtaking or passing.
This prohibition does not apply to emergency vehicles, road service vehicles
servicing or towing a disabled vehicle, stationary waste collection vehicles
actively collecting garbage, refuse, trash, or recyclable materials on the
roadside, rural mail delivery vehicles, vehicles as provided in R.C. § 4513.182
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, highway maintenance
vehicles, funeral hearses, funeral escort vehicles, and similar equipment
operated by the Department or local authorities, which shall be equipped with
and display, when used on a street or highway for the special purpose
necessitating such lights, a flashing, oscillating or rotating amber light, but
shall not display a flashing, oscillating or rotating light of any other color,
nor to vehicles or machinery permitted by R.C. § 4513.11 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to have a flashing red light.
      (2)   When used on a street or highway, farm machinery and vehicles
escorting farm machinery may be equipped with and display a flashing,
oscillating or rotating amber light, and the prohibition contained in division
(C)(1) of this section does not apply to such machinery or vehicles. Farm
machinery may also display the lights described in R.C. § 4513.11 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Except a person operating a public safety vehicle, as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01(E), or a school bus, no person shall operate, move, or park upon or
permit to stand within the right-of-way of any public street or highway any
vehicle or equipment that is equipped with and displaying a flashing red or a
flashing combination red and white light, or an oscillating or rotating red
light, or a combination red and white oscillating or rotating light; and except
a public law enforcement officer, or other person sworn to enforce the criminal
and traffic laws of the state, operating a public safety vehicle when on duty,
no person shall operate, move or park upon or permit to stand within the right-
of-way of any street or highway any vehicle or equipment that is equipped with,
or upon which is mounted, and displaying a flashing blue or a flashing
combination blue and white light, or an oscillating or rotating blue light, or
a combination blue and white oscillating or rotating light.
   (E)   This section does not prohibit the use of warning lights required by
law or the simultaneous flashing of turn signals on disabled vehicles or on
vehicles being operated in unfavorable atmospheric conditions in order to
enhance their visibility. This section also does not prohibit the simultaneous
flashing of turn signals or warning lights whether on farm machinery or
vehicles escorting farm machinery when used on a street or highway.
(R.C. § 4513.17) (Rev. 2019)
   (F)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a motor vehicle
operated by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator may be equipped
with a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and siren, whistle
or bell capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a
distance of not less than 500 feet. Such a vehicle may display the flashing,
oscillating or rotating red or blue light and may give the audible signal of
the siren, whistle or bell only when responding to a fatality or a fatal motor
vehicle accident on a street or highway and only at those locations where the
stoppage of traffic impedes the ability of the coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator to arrive at the site of the fatality.
      (2)   This division (F) does not relieve the coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with
due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4513.171) (Rev. 1999)
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4513.17(F), 4513.171(B)) (Rev. 2010)
§ 74.19 STANDARDS FOR LIGHTS ON SNOW REMOVAL EQUIPMENT AND OVERSIZE VEHICLES.
   (A)   It is unlawful to operate snow removal equipment on a highway unless
the lights thereon comply with and are lighted when and as required by the
standards and specifications adopted by the Director of Transportation pursuant
to R.C. § 4513.18.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.18) (Rev. 2010)
§ 74.20 FLASHING LIGHTS PERMITTED FOR CERTAIN TYPES OF VEHICLES.
   Rural mail delivery vehicles, state highway survey vehicles, and funeral
escort vehicles are permitted to use flashing lights.
(R.C. § 4513.181)
§ 74.21 LIGHTS AND SIGN ON TRANSPORTATION FOR PRESCHOOL CHILDREN.
   (A)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle owned, leased, or hired by a
nursery school, kindergarten, or day- care center, while transporting preschool
children to or from such an institution unless the motor vehicle is equipped
with and displaying two amber flashing lights mounted on a bar attached to the
top of the vehicle, and a sign bearing the designation “caution – children”,
which shall be attached to the bar carrying the amber flashing lights in such a
manner as to be legible to persons both in front of and behind the vehicle. The
lights and sign shall meet standards and specifications adopted by the Director
of Public Safety.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle displaying the lights and sign
required by this section for any purpose other than the transportation of
preschool children as provided in this section.
(R.C. § 4513.182)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99) (Rev. 2013)
§ 74.22 FOCUS AND AIM OF HEADLIGHTS.
   (A)   No person shall use any lights mentioned in R.C. §§ 4513.03 through
4513.18, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, upon any motor
vehicle, trailer or semitrailer unless these lights are equipped, mounted and
adjusted as to focus and aim in accordance with regulations which are
prescribed by the Director of Public Safety.
   (B)   The headlights on any motor vehicle shall comply with the headlamp
color requirements contained in Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number
108, 49 C.F.R. §
571.108. No person shall operate a motor vehicle in violation of this division.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.19) (Rev. 2015)
§ 74.23 BRAKE EQUIPMENT; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The following requirements govern as to brake equipment on vehicles:
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, when operated upon a
highway shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and
to stop and hold the motor vehicle, including two separate means of applying
the brakes, each of which means shall be effective to apply the brakes to at
least two wheels. If these two separate means of applying the brakes are
connected in any way, then on such motor vehicles, manufactured or assembled
after January 1, 1942, they shall be so constructed that failure of any one
part of the operating mechanism shall not leave the motor vehicle without
brakes on at least two wheels.
      (2)   Every motorcycle, when operated upon a highway shall be equipped
with at least one adequate brake, which may be operated by hand or by foot.
      (3)   Every motorized bicycle shall be equipped with brakes meeting the
rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety under R.C. § 4511.521.
      (4)   When operated upon the highways, the following vehicles shall be
equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and to
hold the vehicle, designed to be applied by the driver of the towing motor
vehicle from its cab, and also designed and connected so that, in case of a
breakaway of the towed vehicle, the brakes shall be automatically applied:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every trailer or
semitrailer, except a pole trailer, with an empty weight of 2,000 pounds or
more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1942;
         (b)   Every manufactured home or travel trailer with an empty weight
of 2,000 pounds or more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 2001.
      (5)   Every watercraft trailer with a gross weight or manufacturer’s
gross vehicle weight rating of 3,000 pounds or more that is manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 2008, shall have separate brakes equipped with
hydraulic surge or electrically operated brakes on two wheels.
      (6)   In any combination of motor-drawn trailers or semitrailers equipped
with brakes, means shall be provided for applying the rearmost brakes in
approximate synchronism with the brakes on the towing vehicle, and developing
the required braking effort on the rearmost wheels at the fastest rate; or
means shall be provided for applying braking effort first on the rearmost
brakes; or both of the above means, capable of being used alternatively, may be
employed.
      (7)   Every vehicle and combination of vehicles, except motorcycles and
motorized bicycles, and except trailers and semitrailers of a gross weight of
less than 2,000 pounds, and pole trailers, shall be equipped with parking
brakes adequate to hold the vehicle on any grade on which it is operated, under
all conditions of loading, on a surface free from snow, ice, or loose material.
The parking brakes shall be capable of being applied in conformance with the
foregoing requirements by the driver’s muscular effort or by spring action or
by equivalent means. Their operation may be assisted by the service brakes or
other source of power provided that failure of the service brake actuation
system or other power assisting mechanism will not prevent the parking brakes
from being applied in conformance with the foregoing requirements. The parking
brakes shall be so designed that when once applied they shall remain applied
with the required effectiveness despite exhaustion of any source of energy or
leakage of any kind.
      (8)   The same brake drums, brake shoes and lining assemblies, brake shoe
anchors, and mechanical brake shoe actuation mechanism normally associated with
the wheel brake assemblies may be used for both the service brakes and the
parking brakes. If the means of applying the parking brakes and the service
brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that failure of
any one part shall not leave the vehicle without operative brakes.
      (9)   Every motor vehicle or combination of motor-drawn vehicles shall,
at all times and under all conditions of loading, be capable of being stopped
on a dry, smooth, level road free from loose material, upon application of the
service or foot brake, within the following specified distances, or shall be
capable of being decelerated at a sustained rate corresponding to these
distances:
         (a)   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles having brakes on all wheels
shall come to a stop in 30 feet or less from a speed of 20 miles per hour.
         (b)   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles not having brakes on all
wheels shall come to a stop in 40 feet or less from a speed of 20 miles per
hour.
      (10)   All brakes shall be maintained in good working order and shall be
so adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with respect to the wheels
on opposite sides of the vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.20) (Rev. 2008)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99) (Rev. 2013)
§ 74.24 BRAKE FLUID.
   (A)   No hydraulic brake fluid for use in motor vehicles shall be sold in
this municipality if the brake fluid is below the minimum standard of
specifications for heavy duty type brake fluid established by the society of
automotive engineers and the standard of specifications established by 49
C.F.R. §
571.116, as amended.
   (B)   All manufacturers, packers, or distributors of brake fluid selling
such fluid in this municipality shall state on the containers that the brake
fluid meets or exceeds the applicable minimum SAE standard of specifications,
and the standard of specifications established in 49 C.F.R. §
571.116, as amended.
(R.C. § 4513.201) (Rev. 1998)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99) (Rev. 2013)
§ 74.25 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR BRAKES AND COMPONENTS.
   (A)   No brake lining, brake lining material, or brake lining assemblies for
use as repair and replacement parts in motor vehicles shall be sold in this
municipality if these items do not meet or exceed the minimum standard of
specifications established by the Society of Automotive Engineers and the
standard of specifications established in 49 C.F.R. §
571.105, as amended, and 49 C.F.R. §
571.135, as amended.
   (B)   All manufacturers or distributors of brake lining, brake lining
material, or brake lining assemblies selling these items for use as repair and
replacement parts in motor vehicles shall state that the items meet or exceed
the applicable minimum standard of specifications.
   (C)   As used in this section, MINIMUM STANDARD OF SPECIFICATIONS means a
minimum standard for brake system or brake component performance that meets the
need for motor vehicle safety and complies with the applicable SAE standards
and recommended practices, and the federal motor vehicle safety standards that
cover the same aspect of performance for any brake lining, brake lining
material, or brake lining assemblies.
(R.C. § 4513.202) (Rev. 1998)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99) (Rev. 2013)
§ 74.26 HORNS, SIRENS, AND WARNING DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a highway shall be
equipped with a horn which is in good working order and capable of emitting
sound audible, under normal conditions, from a distance of not less than 200
feet.
      (2)   No motor vehicle shall be equipped with, nor shall any person use
upon a vehicle, any siren, whistle, or bell. Any vehicle may be equipped with a
theft alarm signal device which shall be so arranged that it cannot be used as
an ordinary warning signal. Every emergency vehicle shall be equipped with a
siren, whistle or bell, capable of emitting sound audible under normal
conditions from a distance of not less than 500 feet and of a type approved by
the Director of Public Safety. Such equipment shall not be used except when
such vehicle is operated in response to an emergency call or is in the
immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law, in which case
the driver of the emergency vehicle shall sound such equipment when it is
necessary to warn pedestrians and other drivers of the approach thereof.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.21) (Rev. 2010)
§ 74.27 MUFFLERS; EXCESSIVE SMOKE OR GAS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle with an internal combustion
engine shall at all times be equipped with a muffler which is in good working
order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise, and no
person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device upon a motor
vehicle on a highway. Every motorcycle muffler shall be equipped with baffle
plates.
      (2)   No person shall own, operate or have in the person’s possession any
motor vehicle or motorcycle equipped with a device for producing excessive
smoke or gas, or so equipped as to permit oil or any other chemical to flow
into or upon the exhaust pipe or muffler of such vehicle, or equipped in any
way to produce or emit smoke or dangerous or annoying gases from any portion of
such vehicle, other than the ordinary gases emitted by the exhaust of an
internal combustion engine under normal operation.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.22) (Rev. 2010)
§ 74.28 REARVIEW MIRRORS.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle shall be equipped with a mirror so
located as to reflect to the operator a view of the highway to the rear of such
vehicle or motorcycle. Operators of vehicles and motorcycles shall have a clear
and unobstructed view to the front and to both sides of their vehicles and
motorcycles and shall have a clear view to the rear of their vehicles and
motorcycles by mirror.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.23) (Rev. 2010)
§ 74.29 WINDSHIELDS AND WIPERS.
   (A)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle on a street or highway in this
municipality, other than a motorcycle or motorized bicycle, that is not
equipped with a windshield.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle, other than a bus, with
any sign, poster, or other nontransparent material upon the front windshield,
sidewings, side, or rear windows of such vehicle other than a certificate or
other paper required to be displayed by law, except that there may be in the
lower left-hand or right-hand corner of the windshield a sign, poster, or decal
not to exceed four inches in height by six inches in width. No sign, poster, or
decal shall be displayed in the front windshield in such a manner as to conceal
the vehicle identification number for the motor vehicle when, in accordance
with federal law, that number is located inside the vehicle passenger
compartment and so placed as to be readable through the vehicle glazing without
moving any part of the vehicle.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a passenger car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if the
device meets both of the following:
         (a)   It does not restrict the vehicle operator’s sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals.
         (b)   It does not conceal the vehicle identification number.
      (3)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a commercial car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if the
device meets both of the following:
         (a)   It does not restrict the vehicle operator’s sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals.
         (b)   It is mounted not more than six inches below the upper edge of
the windshield and is outside the area swept by the vehicle’s windshield
wipers.
   (C)   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for cleaning rain, snow, or other moisture from the windshield. The device
shall be maintained in good working order and so constructed as to be
controlled or operated by the operator of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.24) (Rev. 2012)
§ 74.30 SOLID TIRE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every solid tire, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, on a vehicle shall
have rubber or other resilient material on its entire traction surface at least
one inch thick above the edge of the flange of the entire periphery.
(R.C. § 4513.25)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99) (Rev. 2013)
§ 74.31 REQUIREMENTS FOR SAFETY GLASS IN MOTOR VEHICLES; USE OF TINTED GLASS OR
REFLECTORIZED MATERIAL.
   (A)   Safety glass.
      (1)   No person shall sell any new motor vehicle nor shall any new motor
vehicle be registered, and no person shall operate any motor vehicle, which is
registered in this state and which has been manufactured or assembled on or
after January 1, 1936, unless the motor vehicle is equipped with safety glass,
wherever glass is used in the windshields, doors, partitions, rear windows, and
windows on each side immediately adjacent to the rear window.
      (2)   As used in this section, SAFETY GLASS means any product composed of
glass so manufactured, fabricated, or treated as substantially to prevent
shattering and flying of the glass when it is struck or broken, or such other
or similar product as may be approved by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles.
      (3)   Glass other than safety glass shall not be offered for sale, or
sold for use in, or installed in any door, window, partition, or windshield
that is required by this section to be equipped with safety glass.
(R.C. § 4513.26)
   (B)   Tinted or reflectorized material.
      (1)   No person shall operate, on any highway or other public or private
property open to the public for vehicular travel or parking, lease, or rent any
motor vehicle that is registered in this state unless the motor vehicle
conforms to the requirements concerning tinted glass and reflectorized material
of R.C. § 4513.241 and of any applicable rule adopted under that section.
      (2)   No person shall install in or on any motor vehicle, any glass or
other material that fails to conform to the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or
of any rule adopted under that section.
      (3)   (a)   No used motor vehicle dealer or new motor vehicle dealer, as
defined in R.C. § 4517.01, shall sell any motor vehicle that fails to conform
to the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or of any rule adopted under that
section.
         (b)   No manufacturer, remanufacturer, or distributor, as defined in
R.C. § 4517.01, shall provide to a motor vehicle dealer licensed under R.C.
Chapter 4517 or to any other person, a motor vehicle that fails to conform to
the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or of any rule adopted under that section.
      (4)   No reflectorized materials shall be permitted upon or in any front
windshield, side windows, sidewings, or rear window.
      (5)   This division (B) does not apply to the manufacturer’s tinting or
glazing of motor vehicle windows or windshields that is otherwise in compliance
with or permitted by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard #205.
      (6)   With regard to any side window behind a driver’s seat or any rear
window other than any window on an emergency door, this division (B) does not
apply to any school bus used to transport a child with disabilities pursuant to
R.C. Chapter 3323, whom it is impossible or impractical to transport by regular
school bus in the course of regular route transportation provided by a school
district. As used in this division, CHILD WITH DISABILITIES has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 3323.01.
      (7)   This division (B) does not apply to any school bus that is to be
sold and operated outside the municipality.
      (8)   (a)   This division (B) does not apply to a motor vehicle used by a
law enforcement agency under either of the following circumstances:
            1.   The vehicle does not have distinctive markings of a law
enforcement vehicle but is operated by or on behalf of the law enforcement
agency in an authorized investigation or other activity requiring that the
presence and identity of the vehicle occupants be undisclosed.
            2.   The vehicle primarily is used by the law enforcement canine
unit for transporting a police dog.
         (b)   As used in this division, LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY means a police
department, the office of a sheriff, the State Highway Patrol, a county
prosecuting attorney, or a federal, state, or local governmental body that
enforces criminal laws and that has employees who have a statutory power of
arrest.
(R.C. § 4513.241(C) - (J)) (Rev. 2014)
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99) (Rev. 2013)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1),(B)(3)(b) or (B)(4) of this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(3)(a) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor if the dealer or the dealer’s agent knew of the nonconformity
at the time of sale.
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, except that an organization may not be
convicted unless the act of installation was authorized by the board of
directors, trustees, partners, or by a high managerial officer acting on behalf
of the organization, and installation was performed by an employee of the
organization acting within the scope of the person’s employment.
         (b)   In addition to any other penalty imposed under this section,
whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is liable in a civil action to
the owner of a motor vehicle on which was installed the nonconforming glass or
material for any damages incurred by that person as a result of the
installation of the nonconforming glass or material, costs of maintaining the
civil action, and attorney fees.
         (c)   In addition to any other penalty imposed under this section, if
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation
of division (B)(2) of this section and the offender is a motor vehicle repair
operator registered under R.C. Chapter 4775 or a motor vehicle dealer licensed
under R.C. Chapter 4517, whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is
subject to a registration or license suspension, as applicable, for a period of
not more than 180 days.
(R.C. § 4513.241(K)) (Rev. 2014)
Statutory reference:
Recording and reporting violations, certain court requirements, see R.C. §
4513.241(L)
Regulations, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-41
§ 74.32 DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 1954, unless the vehicle is equipped with
electrical or mechanical directional signals.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motorcycle or motor-driven cycle
manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1968, unless the vehicle is
equipped with electrical or mechanical directional signals.
   (B)   As used in this section, DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS means an electrical or
mechanical signal device capable of clearly indicating an intention to turn
either to the right or to the left and which shall be visible from both the
front and rear.
   (C)   All mechanical signal devices shall be self- illuminating devices when
in use at the times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.261) (Rev. 2004)
§ 74.33 INSTALLATION AND SALE OF SEAT SAFETY BELTS REQUIRED; DEFINITION.
   (A)   As used in this section and in R.C. § 4513.263 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the component parts of a seat safety belt
include a belt, anchor attachment assembly, and a buckle or closing device.
   (B)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate any passenger car, as
defined in R.C. § 4501.01(E), that is registered or to be registered in this
state and that is manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1962, unless
the passenger car is equipped with sufficient anchorage units at the attachment
points for attaching at least two sets of seat safety belts to its front seat.
Such anchorage units at the attachment points shall be of such construction,
design, and strength to support a loop load pull of not less than 4,000 pounds
for each belt.
   (C)   No person shall sell, lease, or rent any passenger car, as defined in
R.C. § 4501.01(E), that is registered or to be registered in this state and
that is manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1966, unless the
passenger car has installed in its front seat at least two seat safety belt
assemblies.
   (D)   After January 1, 1966, neither any seat safety belt for use in a motor
vehicle nor any component part of any such seat safety belt shall be sold in
this municipality unless the seat safety belt or the component part satisfies
the minimum standard of specifications established by the society of automotive
engineers for automotive seat belts and unless the seat safety belt or
component part is labeled so as to indicate that it meets those minimum
standard specifications.
   (E)   Each sale, lease, or rental in violation of this section constitutes a
separate offense.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.262) (Rev. 2004)
Statutory reference:
Child restraint systems, regulations, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-37
§ 74.34 REQUIREMENTS FOR EXTRA SIGNAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No person shall operate any motor truck, bus, or commercial tractor
upon any highway at any time from sunset to sunrise unless there is carried in
such vehicle, except as provided in division (B) of this section, the following
equipment which shall be of the types approved by the Director of
Transportation.
      (1)   At least three flares or three red reflectors or three red electric
lanterns, each of which is capable of being seen and distinguished at a
distance of 500 feet under normal atmospheric conditions at nighttime;
      (2)   At least three red-burning fusees, unless red reflectors or red
electric lanterns are carried;
      (3)   At least two red cloth flags, not less than two inches square, with
standards to support them;
      (4)   The type of red reflectors shall comply with such standards and
specifications in effect on September 16, 1963, or later established by the
Interstate Commerce Commission and must be certified as meeting such standards
by Underwriters Laboratories.
   (B)   No person shall operate at the time and under the conditions stated in
this section any motor vehicle used in transporting flammable liquids in bulk,
or in transporting compressed flammable gases, unless there is carried in such
vehicle three red electric lanterns or three red reflectors meeting the
requirements stated in division (A) of this section. There shall not be carried
in any such vehicle any flare, fusee, or signal produced by a flame.
   (C)   This section does not apply to any person who operates any motor
vehicle in a work area designated by protection equipment devices that are
displayed and used in accordance with the manual adopted by the Department of
Transportation under R.C. § 4511.09.
(R.C. § 4513.27) (Rev. 2001)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99) (Rev. 2013)
§ 74.35 DISPLAY OF WARNING DEVICES ON DISABLED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any motor truck, bus, commercial tractor, trailer,
semitrailer, or pole trailer is disabled upon any freeway, expressway, thruway
and connecting, entering, or exiting ramps within the municipality, at any time
when lighted lamps are required on vehicles, the operator of such vehicle shall
display the following warning devices upon the highway during the time the
vehicle is so disabled on the highway except as provided in division (B) of
this section:
      (1)   A lighted fusee shall be immediately placed on the roadway at the
traffic side of such vehicle, unless red electric lanterns or red reflectors
are displayed.
      (2)   Within the burning period of the fusee and as promptly as possible,
three lighted flares or pot torches, or three red reflectors or three red
electric lanterns shall be placed on the roadway as follows:
         (a)   One at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet in
advance of the vehicle;
         (b)   One at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet to the
rear of the vehicle, except as provided in this section, each in the center of
the lane of traffic occupied by the disabled vehicle;
         (c)   One at the traffic side of the vehicle.
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle used in transporting flammable liquids in bulk,
or in transporting compressed flammable gases, is disabled upon a highway at
any time or place mentioned in division (A) of this section, the driver of such
vehicle shall display upon the roadway the following warning devices:
      (1)   One red electric lantern or one red reflector shall be immediately
placed on the roadway at the traffic side of the vehicle;
      (2)   Two other red electric lanterns or two other red reflectors shall
be placed to the front and rear of the vehicle in the same manner prescribed
for flares in division (A) of this section.
   (C)   When a vehicle of a type specified in division (B) of this section is
disabled, the use of flares, fusees, or any signal produced by flame as warning
signals is prohibited.
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle of a type referred to in this section is disabled
upon any freeway, expressway, thruway, and connecting, entering, or exiting
ramps within the municipality, at any time when the display of fusees, flares,
red reflectors, or electric lanterns is not required, the operator of such
vehicle shall display two red flags upon the roadway in the lane of traffic
occupied by the disabled vehicle, one at a distance of 40 paces or
approximately 100 feet in advance of the vehicle, and one at a distance of 40
paces or approximately 100 feet to the rear of the vehicle, except as provided
in this section.
   (E)   The flares, fusees, lanterns, red reflectors, and flags to be
displayed as required in this section shall conform with the applicable
requirements of R.C. § 4513.27 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (F)   In the event the vehicle is disabled near a curve, crest of a hill, or
other obstruction of view, the flare, flag, reflector, or lantern in that
direction shall be placed as to afford ample warning to other users of the
highway, but in no case shall it be placed less than 40 paces or approximately
100 feet nor more than 120 paces or approximately 300 feet from the disabled
vehicle.
   (G)   This section does not apply to the operator of any vehicle in a work
area designated by protection equipment devices that are displayed and used in
accordance with the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation under
R.C. § 4511.09.
   (H)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.28) (Rev. 2010)
§ 74.36 REQUIREMENTS FOR VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Any person operating any vehicle transporting explosives upon a
highway shall at all times comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   The vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side and on the
rear with the word “EXPLOSIVES” in letters not less than eight inches high, or
there shall be displayed on the rear of such vehicle a red flag not less than
24 inches square marked with the word “DANGER” in white letters six inches
high, or shall be marked or placarded in accordance with Section 177.823 of the
United States Department of Transportation regulations.
      (2)   The vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two fire
extinguishers, filled and ready for immediate use, and placed at convenient
points on such vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.29)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99) (Rev. 2013)
§ 74.37 STUDDED TIRES; SEASONAL USE PERMITTED.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, STUDDED TIRE means any tire designed
for use on a vehicle and equipped with metal studs or studs of wear-resisting
material that project beyond the tread of the traction surface of the tire.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, no person
shall operate any motor vehicle other than a public safety vehicle or school
bus that is equipped with studded tires on any street or highway in this
municipality, except during the period extending from the first day of November
of each year through the fifteenth day of April of the succeeding year.
      (2)   A person may operate a motor vehicle that is equipped with
retractable studded tires with the studs retracted at any time of the year, but
shall operate the motor vehicle with the studs extended only as provided in
division (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   This section does not apply to the use of tire chains when there is
snow or ice on the streets or highways where such chains are being used, or the
immediate vicinity thereof.
(R.C. § 5589.081) (Rev. 2009)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
§ 74.38 SAFETY INSPECTION DECALS FOR BUSES.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      BUS.
         (a)   Means any vehicle used for the transportation of passengers that
meets at least one of the following:
            1.   Was originally designed by the manufacturer to transport more
than 15 passengers, including the driver;
            2.   Either the gross vehicle weight rating or the gross vehicle
weight exceeds 10,000 pounds.
         (b)   The term does not include a church bus as defined in R.C. §
4503.07 or a school bus unless the church bus or school bus is used in the
transportation of passengers by a motor carrier.
         (c)   The term also does not include any of the following:
            1.   Any vehicle operated exclusively on a rail or rails;
            2.   A trolley bus operated by electric power derived from a fixed
overhead wire furnishing local passenger transportation similar to street-
railway service;
            3.   Vehicles owned or leased by government agencies or political
subdivisions.
      MOTOR CARRIER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4923.01
(R.C. § 4513.50) (Rev. 2013)
   (B)   Safety inspection decals.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, on and after
July 1, 2001, no person shall operate a bus, nor shall any person being the
owner of a bus or having supervisory responsibility for a bus, permit the
operation of any bus unless the bus displays a valid, current safety inspection
decal issued by the State Highway Patrol under R.C. § 4513.52.
      (2)   For the purpose of complying with the requirements of this section
and R.C. § 4513.52, the owner or other operator of a bus may drive the bus
directly to an inspection site conducted by the State Highway Patrol and
directly back to the person’s place of business without a valid registration
and without displaying a safety inspection decal, provided that no passengers
may occupy the bus during such operation.
(R.C. § 4513.51(A), (B))
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4513.51(D)) (Rev. 2004)
§ 74.39 AIR BAGS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AIR BAG. Has the same meaning as in 49 C.F.R. §
579.4, as amended.
      COUNTERFEIT AIR BAG. An air bag displaying a mark identical or similar to
the genuine mark of a motor vehicle manufacturer, without the authorization of
the motor vehicle manufacturer.
      NONFUNCTIONAL AIR BAG. Any of the following:
         (a)   A replacement air bag that has been previously deployed or
damaged;
         (b)   A replacement air bag that has an electrical fault that is
detected by the air bag diagnostic system of a vehicle after the air bag is
installed;
         (c)   A counterfeit air bag, air bag cover, or some other object that
is installed in a vehicle to deceive an owner or operator of the vehicle into
believing that a functional air bag has been installed.
   (B)   No person shall install or reinstall in any motor vehicle a
counterfeit or nonfunctional air bag or any object intended to fulfill the
function of an air bag other than an air bag that was designed in conformance
with or that is regulated by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208
for the make, model, and model year of the vehicle, knowing that the object is
not in accordance with that standard.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly manufacture, import, sell, or offer for sale
any of the following:
      (1)   A counterfeit air bag;
      (2)   A nonfunctional air bag;
      (3)   Any other object that is intended to be installed in a motor
vehicle to fulfill the function of an air bag and that is not in conformance
with Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208 for the make, model, and
model year of the vehicle in which the object is intended to be installed.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly sell, install, or reinstall a device in a
motor vehicle that causes the diagnostic system of a vehicle to inaccurately
indicate that the vehicle is equipped with a functional air bag.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) or (D) of this section is guilty
of improper replacement of a motor vehicle air bag, a misdemeanor of the first
degree on a first offense. On each subsequent offense, or if the violation
results in serious physical harm to an individual, the person is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Each manufacture, importation, installation, reinstallation, sale,
or offer for sale in violation of this section shall constitute a separate and
distinct violation.
(R.C. § 4549.20) (Rev. 2015)
LOADS
§ 74.50 PERMIT REQUIRED TO EXCEED LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The municipality, with respect to highways under their
jurisdiction, upon application in writing, shall issue a special regional heavy
hauling permit authorizing the applicant to operate or move a vehicle or
combination of vehicles as follows:
         (a)   At a size or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the maximum
specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with
R.C. §§ 4513.01 to 4513.37.
         (b)   Upon any highway under the jurisdiction of municipality except
those highways with a condition insufficient to bear the weight of the vehicle
or combination of vehicles as stated in the application.
         (c)   Issuance of a special regional heavy hauling permit is subject
to the payment of a fee established by the municipality in accordance with this
section.
      (2)   In circumstances where a person is not eligible to receive a permit
under division (A)(1) of this section, the municipality, with respect to
highways under its jurisdiction, upon application in writing and for good cause
shown, may issue a special permit in writing authorizing the applicant to
operate or move a vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight of
vehicle or load exceeding the maximum specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with R.C. §§ 4513.01 through 4513.37,
upon any highway under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 715.22 and 723.01, the holder of a permit
issued by the Director of Transportation under R.C. § 4513.34 may move the
vehicle or combination of vehicles described in the permit on any highway that
is a part of the state highway system when the movement is partly within and
partly without the corporate limits of the municipality. No local authority
shall require any other permit or license or charge any license fee or other
charge against the holder of a permit for the movement of a vehicle or
combination of vehicles on any highway which is a part of the state highway
system. The Ohio Director of Transportation shall not require the holder of a
permit issued by the municipality to obtain a special permit for the movement
of vehicles or combination of vehicles on highways within the jurisdiction of
the municipality. Permits may be issued for any period of time not to exceed
one year, as the local authority in its discretion determines advisable or for
the duration of any public construction project.
   (C)   (1)   The application for a permit issued under this section shall be
in the form that the municipality prescribes. The municipality may prescribe a
permit fee to be imposed and collected when any permit described in this
section is issued. The permit fee may be in an amount sufficient to reimburse
the municipality for the administrative costs incurred in issuing the permit,
and also to cover the cost of normal and expected damage caused to the roadway
or a street or highway structure as the result of the operation of the
nonconforming vehicle or combination of vehicles.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the
Director under R.C. § 4513.34, milk transported in bulk by vehicle is deemed a
nondivisible load.
      (3)   For purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the Director
under R.C. § 4513.34, three or fewer aluminum coils, transported by a vehicle,
are deemed a nondivisible load. The Director shall adopt rules establishing
requirements for an aluminum coil permit that are substantially similar to the
requirements for a steel coil permit under O.A.C. Chapter 5501:2-1.
   (D)   The municipality shall issue a special regional heavy hauling permit
under division (A)(1) of this section upon application and payment of the
applicable fee. However, the municipality may issue or withhold a special
permit specified in division (A)(2) of this section. If a permit is to be
issued, the municipality may limit or prescribe conditions of operation for the
vehicle and may require the posting of a bond or other security conditioned
upon the sufficiency of the permit fee to compensate for damage caused to the
roadway or a street or highway structure. In addition, the municipality, as a
condition of issuance of an overweight permit, may require the applicant to
develop and enter into a mutual agreement with the municipality to compensate
for or to repair excess damage caused to the roadway by travel under the
permit.
   (E)   Every permit issued under this section shall be carried in the vehicle
or combination of vehicles to which it refers and shall be open to inspection
by any police officer or authorized agent of any authority granting the permit.
No person shall violate any of the terms of a permit.
   (F)   The Director of Transportation may debar an applicant from applying
for a special permit under this section upon a finding based on a reasonable
belief that the applicant has done any of the actions specified in R.C. §
4513.34(F).
   (G)   Notice and procedures for debarment shall be as provided in R.C. §
4513.34(G).
   (H)   (1)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to gross load limits.
      (2)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to axle load by more than 2,000 pounds per axle or group of
axles.
      (3)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to an approved route except upon order of a law enforcement
officer or authorized agent of the issuing authority.
   (I)   A permit issued by the municipality under this section for the
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles is valid for the purposes of
the vehicle operation in accordance with the conditions and limitations
specified on the permit. Such a permit is voidable by law enforcement only for
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles in violation of the weight,
dimension, or route provisions of the permit. However, a permit is not voidable
for operation in violation of a route provision of a permit if the operation is
upon the order of a law enforcement officer.
(R.C. § 4513.34) (Rev. 2020)
   (J)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99) (Rev. 2013)
Statutory reference:
Overweight or oversized vehicles, state permit regulations, see O.A.C. Chapter
5501:2-1
§ 74.51 LIMITATION OF LOAD EXTENSION ON LEFT SIDE OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on a highway with any load
carried on the vehicle which extends more than six inches beyond the line of
the fenders on the vehicle’s left side.
(R.C. § 4513.30)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99) (Rev. 2013)   
§ 74.52 ALL LOADS SHALL BE PROPERLY SECURED.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless the vehicle
is so constructed, loaded, or covered as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, sifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand
or other substances may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or
water or other substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or
maintaining the roadway.
   (B)   Except for a farm vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or
agricultural production materials or a rubbish vehicle in the process of
acquiring its load, no vehicle loaded with garbage, swill, cans, bottles, waste
paper, ashes, refuse, trash, rubbish, waste, wire, paper, cartons, boxes,
glass, solid waste, or any other material of an unsanitary nature that is
susceptible to blowing or bouncing from a moving vehicle shall be driven or
moved on any highway unless the load is covered with a sufficient cover to
prevent the load or any part of the load from spilling onto the highway.
(R.C. § 4513.31)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99) (Rev. 2013)
§ 74.53 TOWING REQUIREMENTS; EXCEPTION TO SIZE AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   When one vehicle is towing another vehicle, the drawbar or other
connection shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight towed
thereby, and the drawbar or other connection shall not exceed 15 feet from one
vehicle to the other, except the connection between any two vehicles
transporting poles, pipe, machinery, or other objects of structural nature
which cannot readily be dismembered.
      (2)   When one vehicle is towing another and the connection consists only
of a chain, rope, or cable, there shall be displayed upon such connection a
white flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square.   
      (3)   In addition to such drawbar or other connection, each trailer and
each semitrailer which is not connected to a commercial tractor by means of a
fifth wheel shall be coupled with stay chains or cables to the vehicle by which
it is being drawn. These chains or cables shall be of sufficient size and
strength to prevent the towed vehicle’s parting from the drawing vehicle in
case the drawbar or other connection should break or become disengaged. In case
of a loaded pole trailer, the connecting pole to the drawing vehicle shall be
coupled to the drawing vehicle with stay chains or cables of sufficient size
and strength to prevent the towed vehicle’s parting from the drawing vehicle.
      (4)   Every trailer or semitrailer, except pole and cable trailers and
pole and cable dollies operated by a public utility as defined in R.C. §
5727.01, shall be equipped with a coupling device which shall be so designed
and constructed that the trailer will follow substantially in the path of the
vehicle drawing it, without whipping or swerving from side to side. Vehicles
used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production materials
between a local place of storage and supply and the farm, when drawn or towed
on a street or highway at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less, and vehicles
designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage
and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or
highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per
hour or less, shall have a drawbar or other connection, including the hitch
mounted on the towing vehicle, which shall be of sufficient strength to pull
all the weight towed thereby. Only one such vehicle used to transport
agricultural produce or agricultural production materials as provided in this
section may be towed or drawn at one time except as follows:
         (a)   An agricultural tractor may tow or draw more than one such
vehicle;
         (b)   A pickup truck or straight truck designed by the manufacturer to
carry a load of not less than one-half ton and not more than two tons may tow
or draw not more than two such vehicles that are being used to transport
agricultural produce from the farm to a local place of storage. No vehicle
being so towed by such a pickup truck or straight truck shall be considered to
be a motor vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.32) (Rev. 1999)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99) (Rev. 2013)
   (C)   Exception to size and weight restrictions.
      (1)   The size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter
5577 do not apply to a any of the following:
         (a)   A person who is engaged in the initial towing or removal of a
wrecked or disabled motor vehicle from the site of an emergency on a public
highway where the vehicle became wrecked or disabled to the nearest site where
the vehicle can be brought into conformance with the requirements of this
chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577, to the nearest storage facility, or to the
nearest qualified repair facility;
         (b)   A person who is en route to the site of an emergency on a public
highway to remove a wrecked or disabled motor vehicle;
         (c)   A person who is returning from delivering a wrecked or disabled
motor vehicle to a site, storage facility, or repair facility as specified in
division (C)(1)(a) of this section.
      (2)   Any subsequent towing of a wrecked or disabled vehicle shall comply
with the size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577.
      (3)   No court shall impose any penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99 or
the civil liability established in R.C. § 5577.12 upon a person who is
operating a vehicle in the manner described in division (C)(1) of this section.
(R.C. § 5577.15) (Rev. 2020)
§ 74.54 WEIGHING OF VEHICLE; REMOVAL OF EXCESS LOAD.
   (A)   Any police officer having reason to believe that the weight of a
vehicle and its load is unlawful may require the driver of the vehicle to stop
and submit to a weighing of it by means of a compact, self-contained, portable,
sealed scale specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of vehicles on
highways; a sealed scale permanently installed in a fixed location, having a
load-receiving element specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of
highway vehicles; a sealed scale, permanently installed in a fixed location,
having a load-receiving element specially adapted to determining the combined
load of all wheels on a single axle or on successive axles of a highway
vehicle; or a sealed scale adapted to weighing highway vehicles, loaded or
unloaded.
   (B)   The driver of the vehicle shall, if necessary, be directed to proceed
to the nearest available sealed scales to accomplish the weighing, provided the
scales are within three miles of the point where the vehicle is stopped.
   (C)   Any vehicle stopped in accordance with this section may be held by the
police officer for a reasonable time only to accomplish the weighing as
prescribed by this section.
   (D)   All scales used in determining the lawful weight of a vehicle and its
load shall be annually compared by a municipal, county or state sealer with the
state standards or standards approved by the state, and the scales shall not be
sealed if they do not conform to the state standards or standards approved by
the state.
   (E)   At each end of a permanently installed scale, there shall be a
straight approach in the same plane as the platform, of sufficient length and
width to insure the level positioning of vehicles during weight determinations.
During determination of weight by compact, self-contained, portable, sealed
scales, specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of vehicles on
highways, they shall always be used on a level terrain of sufficient length and
width to accommodate the entire vehicle being weighed. Such terrain shall be
level, or if not level, it shall be of such elevation that the difference in
elevation between the wheels on any one axle does not exceed two inches and the
difference in elevation between axles being weighed does not exceed one-
quarter inch per foot of the distance between such axles.
   (F)   In all determinations of all weights, except gross weight, by compact,
self-contained, portable, sealed scales, specially adapted to determining the
wheel loads of vehicles on highways, all successive axles, 12 feet or less
apart, shall be weighed simultaneously by placing one such scale under the
outside wheel of each such axle. In determinations of gross weight by the use
of compact, self-contained, portable, sealed scales, specially adapted to
determining the wheel loads of vehicles on highways, all axles shall be weighed
simultaneously by placing one such scale under the outside wheel of each axle.
   (G)   Whenever an officer, upon weighing a vehicle and load, determines that
the weight is unlawful, he or she may require the driver to stop the vehicle in
a suitable place and remain standing until such portion of the load is removed
as is necessary to reduce the weight of the vehicle to the limit permitted
under R.C. §§ 5577.01 through 5577.14 and this chapter.
(R.C. § 4513.33)
Statutory reference:
Alteration of weight limits, approval of Director required, see R.C. § 4513.33
§ 74.55 OPERATION OF VEHICLE EXCEEDING WEIGHT LIMITS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall operate or move a traction engine, steam roller, or
other vehicle, load, object or structure, whether propelled by muscular or
motor power, over or upon the improved public streets, highways, bridges, or
culverts in this municipality, that weighs in excess of the weights prescribed
in this subchapter or R.C. §§ 5577.01 et seq., unless the person has been
issued a permit under R.C. § 4513.34, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. The prohibition in this section applies regardless of whether the
weight is moved upon wheels, rollers, or otherwise. Any weight determination
shall include the weight of the vehicle, object, structure, contrivance, and
load.
(R.C. § 5577.02) (Rev. 2022)
   (B)   Whoever violates the weight provisions of this section shall be fined
$80 for the first 2,000 pounds, or fraction thereof, of overload; for overloads
in excess of 2,000 pounds, but not in excess of 5,000 pounds, such person shall
be fined $100, and in addition thereto $1 per 100 pounds of overload; for
overloads in excess of 5,000 pounds but not in excess of 10,000 pounds, such
person shall be fined $130, and in addition thereto $2 per 100 pounds of
overload, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both. For all overloads in
excess of 10,000 pounds, such person shall be fined $160, and in addition
thereto $3 per 100 pounds of overload, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or
both. Whoever violates the weight provisions of vehicle and load relating to
gross load limits shall be fined not less than $100. No penalty prescribed in
this division (B)(2) shall be imposed on any vehicle combination if the
overload on any one axle does not exceed 1,000 pounds, and if the immediately
preceding or following axle, excepting the front axle of the vehicle
combination, is underloaded by the same or greater amount. For purposes of this
division (B)(2), two axles on one vehicle less than eight feet apart shall be
considered as one axle.
(R.C. § 5577.99(A)) (Rev. 1997)
§ 74.56 LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   Weight of load; width of tire. No person, firm or corporation shall
transport over the improved public streets, alleys, intercounty highways, state
highways, bridges or culverts in this municipality, in any vehicle propelled by
muscular, motor or other power, any burden, including weight of vehicle and
load, greater than the following:
      (1)   (a)   In vehicles having metal tires three inches or less in width,
a load of 500 pounds for each inch of the total width of the tire on all
wheels;
         (b)   When the tires on such vehicles exceed three inches in width, an
additional load of 800 pounds shall be permitted for each inch by which the
total width of the tires on all wheels exceeds 12 inches.
      (2)   In vehicles having tires of rubber or other similar substance, for
each inch of the total width of tires on all wheels, as follows:
 
Tire Width (in inches) Load Limit (in pounds)
3                      450
3.5                    450
4                      500
5                      600
6 and over             650
 
      (3)   The total width of tires on all wheels shall be, in the case of
solid tires of rubber or other similar substance, the actual width in inches of
all such tires between the flanges at the base of the tires, but in no event
shall that portion of tire coming in contact with the road surface be less than
two-thirds the width so measured between the flanges.
      (4)   In the case of pneumatic tires, of rubber or other similar
substance, the total width of tires on all wheels shall be the actual width of
all such tires, measured at the widest portion thereof when inflated and not
bearing a load.
      (5)   In no event shall the load, including the proportionate weight of
vehicle that can be concentrated on any wheel, exceed 650 pounds to each inch
in width of the tread as defined in this division (A) for solid tires, or each
inch in the actual diameter of pneumatic tires measured when inflated and not
bearing a load.
(R.C. § 5577.03)
   (B)   Vehicles with pneumatic tires, load limits.
      (1)   The maximum wheel load of any one wheel of any vehicle, load,
object or structure operated or moved upon improved public highways, streets,
bridges or culverts shall not exceed 650 pounds per inch width of pneumatic
tire, measured as prescribed by division (A) of this section.
      (2)   The weight of the vehicle and load imposed upon a road surface that
is part of the interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires shall not
exceed any of the following weight limitations:
         (a)   On any one axle, 20,000 pounds;
         (b)   On any tandem axle, 34,000 pounds;
         (c)   On any two or more consecutive axles, the maximum weight as
determined by application of the formula provided in division (B)(3) of this
section.
      (3)   (a)   For purposes of division (B)(2)(c) of this section, the
maximum gross weight on any two or more consecutive axles shall be determined
by application of the following formula: W = 500[(LN/–1) + 12N + 36]
         (b)   In this formula, W equals the overall gross weight on any group
of two or more consecutive axles to the nearest 500 pounds, L equals the
distance in rounded whole feet between the extreme of any group of two or more
consecutive axles, and N equals the number of axles in the group under
consideration. However, two consecutive sets of tandem axles may carry a gross
load of 34,000 pounds each, provided the overall distance between the first and
last axles of such consecutive sets of tandem axles is 36 feet or more.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (B)(9) of this section, the weight
of vehicle and load imposed upon a road surface that is not part of the
interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires shall not exceed any of the
following weight limitations:
         (a)   On any one axle, 20,000 pounds.
         (b)   On any two successive axles:
            1.   Spaced four feet or less apart, and weighed simultaneously,
24,000 pounds;
            2.   Spaced more than four feet apart, and weighed simultaneously,
34,000 pounds, plus 1,000 pounds per foot or fraction thereof, over four feet,
not to exceed 40,000 pounds.
         (c)   On any three successive load-bearing axles designed to equalize
the load between such axles and spaced so that each such axle of the three-axle
group is more than four feet from the next axle in the three-axle group and so
that the spacing between the first axle and the third axle in the three-axle
group is no more than nine feet, and with such load-bearing three-axle group
weighed simultaneously as a unit:
            1.   A weight of 48,000 pounds, with the total weight of the
vehicle and load not exceeding 38,000 pounds plus an additional 900 pounds for
each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of the
vehicle;
            2.   As an alternative to division (B)(4)(c)1. of this section,
42,500 pounds, if part of a six- axle vehicle combination with at least 20 feet
of spacing between the front axle and rearmost axle, with the total weight of
the vehicle and load not exceeding 54,000 pounds plus an additional 600 pounds
per each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of the
vehicle.
         (d)   The total weight of the vehicle and load utilizing any
combination of axles, other than as provided for three-axle groups in division
(B)(4) of this section, shall not exceed 38,000 pounds plus an additional 900
pounds for each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of
the vehicle.
      (5)   Notwithstanding divisions (B)(2) and (B)(4) of this section, the
maximum overall gross weight of a vehicle and load imposed upon the road
surface shall not exceed 80,000 pounds.
      (6)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, when a vehicle is
towing another vehicle, such drawbar or other connection shall be of a length
such as will limit the spacing between nearest axles of the respective vehicles
to a distance not in excess of 12.5 feet.
      (7)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section, TANDEM AXLE means two
or more consecutive axles whose centers may be included between parallel
transverse vertical planes spaced more than 40 inches but not more than 96
inches apart, extending across the full width of the vehicle.
      (8)   This division (B) does not apply to passenger bus type vehicles
operated by a regional transit authority pursuant to R.C. §§ 306.30 through
306.54.
      (9)   Either division (B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section applies to the
weight of a vehicle and its load imposed upon any road surface that is not a
part of the interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires. As between
divisions (B)(2) and (B)(4) of this section, only the division that yields the
highest total gross vehicle weight limit shall be applied to any such vehicle.
Once that division has been determined, only the limits contained in the
subdivisions of that division shall apply to that vehicle.
(R.C. § 5577.04) (Rev. 2002)
   (C)   Axle and wheel load, gross weights and towing connection length for
solid rubber tires.
      (1)   No vehicle, load, object or structure having a maximum axle load
greater than 16,000 pounds when such vehicle is equipped with solid rubber
tires shall be operated or moved upon the improved public highways, streets,
bridges or culverts. The maximum wheel load of any one wheel of such vehicle
shall not exceed 650 pounds per inch width of tire, measured as prescribed by
division (A) of this section, nor shall any solid tire or rubber or other
resilient material, on any wheel of any such vehicle, be less than one inch
thick when measure from the top of the flanges of the tire channel.
      (2)   The weight of vehicle and load imposed upon the road surface by any
two successive axles, spaces four feet or less apart, shall not exceed 19,000
pounds for solid tires; or by any two successive axles spaced more than four
feet but less than eight feet apart, shall not exceed 24,000 pounds for solid
tires; or by any two successive axles, spaced eight feet or more apart, shall
not exceed 28,000 pounds for solid tires; nor shall the total weight of vehicle
and load exceed, for solid rubber tires, 28,000 pounds plus an additional 600
pounds for each foot or fraction thereof of spacing between the front axle and
the rear-most axle of the vehicle; nor shall the weight of the vehicle and load
imposed upon the road surface by any vehicle equipped with solid rubber tires
exceed 80% of the permissible weight of vehicle and load as provided for
pneumatic tires.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, when a vehicle is
towing another vehicle, such drawbar or other connection shall be of a length
such as will limit the spacing between the nearest axles of the respective
vehicles to a distance not in excess of 12.5 feet. If the provisions of this
division (C) are held to exceed the weight limitations or other provisions set
forth in the “Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1958", 72 Stat. 902, 23 U.S.C. § 127,
this division (C) shall become null and void to the extent of such
inconsistency.
(R.C. § 5577.041)
   (D)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second or subsequent offense, such person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 5577.99(C)) (Rev. 2005)
      (2)   Whoever violates the weight provisions of this section shall be
punished as set forth in §
74.55(B).
   (E)   Modification of load limits. The load limits established in this
section may be modified or waived upon special permission granted as provided
in R.C. § 4513.34 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(Rev. 1999)
§ 74.57 MAXIMUM WIDTH, HEIGHT, AND LENGTH.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be operated upon the public highways, streets,
bridges, and culverts within this municipality whose dimensions exceed those
specified in this section.
   (B)   No such vehicle shall have a width:
      (1)   In excess of 104 inches for passenger bus type vehicles operated
exclusively within the municipality.
      (2)   In excess of 102 inches, excluding such safety devices as are
required by law, for passenger bus type vehicles operated over freeways, and
such other state roads with minimum pavement widths of 22 feet, except those
roads or portions of roads over which operation of 102-inch buses is prohibited
by order of the Director of Transportation.
      (3)   In excess of 132 inches for traction engines.
      (4)   In excess of 102 inches for recreational vehicles, excluding safety
devices and retracted awnings and other appurtenances of six inches or less in
width and except that the Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch
recreational vehicles on designated state highways or portions of highways.
      (5)   In excess of 102 inches, including load, for all other vehicles,
except that the Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch vehicles on
such state highways or portions of state highways as the Director designates.
   (C)   No such vehicle shall have a length:
      (1)   In excess of 66 feet for passenger bus type vehicles and
articulated passenger bus type vehicles operated by a regional transit
authority pursuant to R.C. §§ 306.30 through 306.54.
      (2)   In excess of 45 feet for all other passenger bus type vehicles.
      (3)   In excess of 53 feet for any semitrailer when operated in a
commercial tractor-semitrailer combination, with or without load, except that
the Director may prohibit the operation of any such commercial tractor-
semitrailer combination on such state highways or portions of state highways as
the Director designates.
      (4)   In excess of 28.5 feet for any semitrailer or trailer when operated
in a commercial tractor-semitrailer- trailer or commercial tractor-semitrailer-
semitrailer combination, except that the Director may prohibit the operation of
any such commercial tractor-semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor-
semitrailer-semitrailer combination on such state highways or portions of state
highways as the Director designates.
      (5)   (a)   In excess of 97 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle
transporter combinations and drive- away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle
transporter combinations when operated on any interstate, United States route,
or state route, including reasonable access travel on all other roadways for a
distance not to exceed one road mile from any interstate, United States route,
or state route, not to exceed three saddlemounted vehicles, but which may
include one fullmount;
         (b)   In excess of 75 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle
transporter combinations and drive- away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle
transporter combinations when operated on any roadway not designated as an
interstate, United States route, or state route, not to exceed three
saddlemounted vehicles, but which may include one fullmount.
      (6)   In excess of 65 feet for any other combination of vehicles coupled
together, with or without load, except as provided in division (C)(3) and (C)
(4), and in division (E) below.
      (7)   In excess of 45 feet for recreational vehicles.
      (8)   In excess of 50 feet for all other vehicles, except trailers and
semitrailers, with or without load.
   (D)   No such vehicle shall have a height in excess of 13.5 feet, with or
without load.
   (E)   An automobile transporter or boat transporter shall be allowed a
length of 65 feet, and a stinger-steered automobile transporter or stinger-
steered boat transporter shall be allowed a length of 75 feet, except that the
load thereon may extend no more than four feet beyond the rear of such vehicles
and may extend no more than three feet beyond the front of such vehicles, and
except further that the Director may prohibit the operation of a stinger-
steered automobile transporter, stinger-steered boat transporter, or a B-train
assembly on any state highway or portion of any state highway that the Director
designates.
   (F)   (1)   The widths prescribed in division (B) of this section shall not
include side mirrors, turn signal lamps, marker lamps, handholds for cab entry
and egress, flexible fender extensions, mud flaps, splash and spray suppressant
devices, and load-induced tire bulge.
      (2)   The widths prescribed in division (B)(5) of this section shall not
include automatic covering devices, tarp and tarp hardware, and tiedown
assemblies, provided these safety devices do not extend more than three inches
from either side of the vehicle.
      (3)   The lengths prescribed in divisions (C)(2) through (C)(7) shall not
include safety devices, bumpers attached to the front or rear of such bus or
combination, non-property carrying devices or components that do not extend
more than 24 inches beyond the rear of the vehicle and are needed for loading
or unloading, B-train assembly used between the first and second semitrailer of
a commercial tractor-semitrailer-semitrailer combination, energy conservation
devices as provided in any regulations adopted by the Secretary of the United
States Department of Transportation, or any noncargo-carrying refrigerator
equipment attached to the front of trailers and semitrailers. In special cases,
vehicles that dimensions exceed those prescribed by this section may operate in
accordance with rules adopted by the Director.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to fire engines, fire trucks, or
other vehicles or apparatus belonging to the municipality or to the volunteer
fire department thereof or used by such department in the discharge of its
functions. This section does not apply to vehicles and pole trailers used in
the transportation of wooden and metal poles, nor to the transportation of
pipes or well-drilling equipment, nor to farm machinery and equipment.
      (2)   The owner or operator of any vehicle, machinery, or equipment not
specifically enumerated in this section but the dimensions of which exceed the
dimensions provided by this section, when operating the same on the highways
and streets of the municipality, shall comply with the rules of the Director
governing such movement. Any person adversely affected shall have the same
right of appeal as provided in R.C. Chapter 119.
      (3)   This section does not require the municipality or any railroad or
other private corporation to provide sufficient vertical clearance to permit
the operation of such vehicle, or to make any changes in or about existing
structures now crossing streets, roads, and other public thoroughfares.
   (H)   As used in this section, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 4501.01.
(R.C. § 5577.05) (Rev. 2014)
   (I)   No person shall violate any rule or regulation promulgated by the
Director of Transportation in accordance with R.C. § 5577.05.
(R.C. § 5577.06)
   (J)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second or subsequent offense, such person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 5577.99(C)) (Rev. 2005)
§ 74.58 STATEMENT OF GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT.
   (A)   No person shall issue or aid in issuing any bill of lading or other
document of like nature in lieu thereof, which bill or document is to accompany
a shipment of goods or property by truck, trailer, semitrailer, commercial
tractor, or any other commercial vehicle used for the transportation of
property, the gross weight of which, with load, exceeds three tons, with intent
to defraud by misrepresentation thereon the weight of such goods of property to
be so transported.
   (B)   Any driver or operator of a commercial car, trailer or semitrailer may
obtain from any person, firm, partnership, corporation or association,
including the owner, lessee, or operator of such commercial car, trailer or
semitrailer, owning and operating sealed scales in this state, a written
“statement of gross vehicle weight” showing the gross weight of the vehicle
including the cargo on the vehicle, the name and address of the person issuing
the statement, and the date and place where the vehicle and its cargo were
weighed. The driver or operator of the commercial car, trailer or semitrailer
shall retain such statement of gross vehicle weight on his or her person, and
any law enforcement officer may request that such driver or operator exhibit it
to him or her. If, upon examining the statement of gross vehicle weight, the
law enforcement officer has reason to believe that the information contained
therein is correct in every respect, he or she shall indorse it with his or her
name and the date and place where it was exhibited to him or her. The law
enforcement officer may then permit such driver or operator to proceed without
weighing by a law enforcement officer. No person shall willfully issue a
written statement of gross vehicle weight and knowingly give any false
information in such statement.
(R.C. § 5577.10)
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be fined not more
than $5,000 or imprisoned for not less than 30 days nor more than six months,
or both.
(R.C. § 5577.99(D))
§ 74.59 WHEEL PROTECTORS REQUIRED ON HEAVY COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall drive or operate, or cause to be driven or operated,
any commercial car, trailer, or semitrailer, used for the transportation of
goods or property, the gross weight of which, with load, exceeds three tons,
upon the public highways, streets, bridges, and culverts within the
municipality, unless such vehicle is equipped with suitable metal protectors or
substantial flexible flaps on the rearmost wheels of such vehicle or
combination of vehicles to prevent, as far as practicable, the wheels from
throwing dirt, water, or other materials on the windshields of following
vehicles. Such protectors or flaps shall have a ground clearance of not more
than one-third of the distance from the center of the rearmost axle to the
center of the flaps under any conditions of loading of the vehicle, and they
shall be at least as wide as the tires they are protecting. If the vehicle is
so designed and constructed that such requirements are accomplished by means of
fenders, body construction, or other means of enclosure, then no such
protectors or flaps are required. Rear wheels not covered at the top by
fenders, bodies, or other parts of the vehicle shall be covered at the top by
protective means extending at least to the center line of the rearmost axle.
(R.C. § 5577.11) (Rev. 2001)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $25.
(R.C. § 5577.99(E))
§ 74.60 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES; PROSECUTION; APPLICATION OF MONIES.
   Any person violating any law relating to or regulating the use of the
improved public roads shall be liable for all damage resulting to any such
street, highway, bridge or culvert by reason of such violation. In case of any
injury to such street, highway, bridge or culvert, such damages shall be
collected by civil action for recovery of such damages brought by the proper
authorities of the municipality. All damages collected under this section shall
be paid into the treasury of the municipality and credited to any fund for the
repairs of streets, highways, roads, bridges or culverts.
(R.C. § 5577.12)
§ 74.61 WEIGHT EXCEPTIONS FOR CERTAIN VEHICLES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      COAL TRUCK. Means a truck transporting coal from the site where it is
mined when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      FARM COMMODITIES. Includes livestock, bulk milk, corn, soybeans, tobacco
and wheat.
      FARM MACHINERY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      FARM TRUCK. Means a truck used in the transportation from a farm of farm
commodities when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      LOG TRUCK. Means a truck used in the transportation of timber from the
site of its cutting when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      SOLID WASTE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3743.01.
      SOLID WASTE HAUL VEHICLE. Means a vehicle hauling solid waste for which a
bill of lading has not been issued.
   (B)   (1)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the following vehicles under the
described conditions may exceed by no more than 7.5% the weight provisions of
R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, and no penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be imposed:
         (a)   A coal truck transporting coal, from the place of production to
the first point of delivery where title to the coal is transferred;
         (b)   A farm truck or farm machinery transporting farm commodities,
from the place of production to the first point of delivery where the
commodities are weighed and title to the commodities is transferred;
         (c)   A log truck transporting timber, from the site of its cutting to
the first point of delivery where the timber is transferred;
         (d)   A solid waste haul vehicle hauling solid waste, from the place
of production to the first point of delivery where the solid waste is disposed
of or title to the solid waste is transferred.
      (2)   In addition, if any of the vehicles listed in division (B)(1) of
this section and operated under the conditions described in that division does
not exceed by more than 7.5% the gross vehicle weight provisions of R.C. §§
5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
does not exceed the wheel or axle- load limits of those sections by more than
7.5%, no penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, for a wheel or axle overload shall be imposed.
   (C)   If any of the vehicles listed in division (B)(1) of this section and
operated under the conditions described in that division exceeds the weight
provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, by more than the percentage allowance of either divisions
(B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section, both of the following apply without regard to
the allowance provided by this division (B) of this section:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by R.C. § 5577.12, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   (1)   Division (B) of this section does not apply to the operation of
a farm truck, log truck, or farm machinery transporting farm commodities during
the months of February and March.
      (2)   Regardless of when the operation occurs, division (B) of this
section does not apply to the operation of a vehicle on either of the
following:
         (a)   A highway that is part of the interstate system;
         (b)   A highway, road, or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under R.C. § 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09, or 5591.42,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.042) (Rev. 2012)
   (E)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the following vehicles under the described
conditions may exceed by no more than 7.5% the weight provisions of R.C. §§
5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and no
penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, shall be imposed:
      (1)   A surface mining truck transporting minerals from the place where
the minerals are loaded to any of the following:
         (a)   The construction site where the minerals are discharged;
         (b)   The place where title to the minerals is transferred;
         (c)   The place of processing.
      (2)   A vehicle transporting hot mix asphalt material from the place
where the material is first mixed to the paving site where the material is
discharged;
      (3)   A vehicle transporting concrete from the place where the material
is first mixed to the site where the material is discharged;
      (4)   A vehicle transporting manure, turf, sod, or silage from the site
where the material is first produced to the first place of delivery;
      (5)   A vehicle transporting chips, sawdust, mulch, bark, pulpwood,
biomass, or firewood from the site where the product is first produced or
harvested to first point where the product is transferred.
   (F)   In addition, if any of the vehicles listed in division (E) of this
section and operated under the conditions described in that division do not
exceed by more than 7.5% the gross vehicle weight provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01
to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and do not
exceed the wheel or axle-load limits of those sections by more than 7.5%, no
penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, for a wheel or axle overload shall be imposed.
   (G)   If any of the vehicles listed in division (E) of this section and
operated under the conditions described in that division exceed the weight
provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, by more than the percentage allowance of either divisions
(E) or (F) of this section, both of the following apply without regard to the
allowance provided by division (E) or (F) of this section:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by R.C. § 5577.12, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (H)   Divisions (E) and (F) of this section do not apply to the operation of
a vehicle listed in division (E) of this section on either of the following:
      (1)   A highway that is part of the interstate system;
      (2)   A highway, road, or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under R.C. § 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09, or 5591.42,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.043) (Rev. 2012)
   (I)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, a vehicle fueled solely by compressed natural
gas or liquid natural gas may exceed by not more than 2,000 pounds the gross
vehicle weight provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, or the axle load limits of those sections.
   (J)   If a vehicle described in division (I) of this section exceeds the
weight provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, by more than the allowance provided for in
division (I) of this section, both of the following apply:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by R.C. § 5577.12, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (K)   Division (I) of this section does not apply to the operation of a
vehicle on a highway, road, or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under R.C. § 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09, or 5591.42,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.044) (Rev. 2020)
   (L)   Fire engine weight exemptions. 
      (1)   As used in this division (L), FIRE ENGINE means a fire engine, fire
truck, or other vehicle or apparatus belonging to or used by any municipal,
township, or volunteer fire department, while in the discharge of its
functions.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, a person may do both of the following without a
written permit issued under R.C. § 4513.34, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance:
         (a)   Operate a two-axle fire engine, with a front axle maximum weight
of 24,000 pounds and a rear axle maximum weight of 33,500 pounds and a minimum
wheelbase of 15 feet, on all roadways in the state;
         (b)   Operate a fire engine with a maximum gross vehicle weight of
86,000 pounds on the interstate highway system and within one road mile of an
interstate highway system entrance or exit ramp.
      (3)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 4513.34, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, for any fire engine that requires a permit, the Ohio
Director of Transportation or local authority shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Issue the permit at no cost to the municipal, township, or
volunteer fire department;
         (b)   Issue a permit that expires five years after the date of
issuance.
(R.C. § 5577.045) (Rev. 2022)
CHAPTER 75: BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
75.01   Bicycles; application of Title VII
   
75.02   Operation of motorized bicycle
   
75.03   Electric bicycles
   
75.04   Rules for bicycles, motorcycles, and snowmobiles
   
75.05   Prohibition against attaching bicycles and sleds to vehicles
   
75.06   Riding bicycles; motorcycles abreast
   
75.07   Equipment of bicycles
Snowmobiles, Off-Highway Motorcycles, and All-Purpose Vehicles
   
75.25   Definitions
   
75.26   Equipment
   
75.27   Code application; prohibited operation
   
75.28   Permitted operation
   
75.29   Licensing requirements of operator
   
75.30   Maintenance of vehicles for hire
   
75.31   Accident reports
   
75.32   Impounding of vehicle
   
75.33   Local control within police power
   
75.34   Registration of vehicles
   
75.35   Certificate of title; prohibitions
Cross-reference:
Operation restricted for mini-trucks and low-speed, under-speed, or utility
vehicles, see §
73.16
Statutory reference:
Bicycle regulations to be consistent with state law, see R.C. § 4511.07(A)(8)
Protective eye devices required for motorcycle operators and passengers;
helmets required for persons under 18 years of age, see O.A.C. § 4501-17-01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 75.01 BICYCLES; APPLICATION OF TITLE VII.
   (A)   The provisions of this title that are applicable to bicycles and
electric bicycles apply whenever a bicycle or electric bicycle is operated upon
any highway or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, a bicycle operator
or electric bicycle operator who violates any provisions of this title
described in division (A) of this section that is applicable to bicycles or
electric bicycles may be issued a ticket, citation, or summons by a law
enforcement officer for the violation in the same manner as the operator of a
motor vehicle would be cited for the same violation. A person who commits any
such violation while operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not have any
points assessed against the person’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or probationary license under R.C. §
4510.036.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, in the case of a
violation of any provision of this title described in division (A) of this
section by a bicycle operator, electric bicycle operator, or motor vehicle
operator when the trier of fact finds that the violation by the motor vehicle
operator endangered the lives of bicycle riders or electric bicycle riders at
the time of the violation, the court, notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio
Revised Code to the contrary, may require the bicycle operator, electric
bicycle operator, or motor vehicle operator to take and successfully complete a
bicycling skills course approved by the court in addition to or in lieu of any
penalty otherwise prescribed by this Traffic Code or the Ohio Revised Code for
that violation.
   (D)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to violations of
R.C. § 4511.19, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 4511.52) (Rev. 2020)
§ 75.02 OPERATION OF MOTORIZED BICYCLE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motorized bicycle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking, unless all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The person is 14 or 15 years of age and holds a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license issued after the person has passed the test provided
for in this section, or the person is 16 years of age or older and holds either
a valid commercial driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506 or a
driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid motorized bicycle
license issued after the person has passed the test provided for in this
section, except that if a person is 16 years of age, has a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license and desires a motorized bicycle license, the person
is not required to comply with the testing requirements provided for in this
section.
      (2)   The motorized bicycle is equipped in accordance with the rules
adopted under division (B) of this section and is in proper working order.
      (3)   The person, if under 18 years of age, is wearing a protective
helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened and the
motorized bicycle is equipped with a rearview mirror.
      (4)   The person operates the motorized bicycle when practicable within
three feet of the right edge of the roadway obeying all traffic rules
applicable to vehicles.
   (B)   The Director of Public Safety, subject to R.C. Chapter 119, shall
adopt and promulgate rules concerning protective helmets, the equipment of
motorized bicycles, and the testing and qualifications of persons who do not
hold a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license. The test shall be as near
as practicable to the examination required for a motorcycle operator’s
endorsement under R.C. § 4507.11. The test shall also require the operator to
give an actual demonstration of the operator’s ability to operate and control a
motorized bicycle by driving one under the supervision of an examining officer.
   (C)   Every motorized bicycle license expires on the birthday of the
applicant in the fourth or eighth year after the date it is issued, based on
the period of renewal requested by the applicant. No motorized bicycle license
shall be issued for a period longer than eight years. A person who is 65 years
of age or older may only apply for a motorized bicycle license that expires on
the birthday of the applicant in the fourth year after the date it is issued.
   (D)   No person operating a motorized bicycle shall carry another person
upon the motorized bicycle.
   (E)   The protective helmet and rearview mirror required by division (A)(3)
of this section shall, on and after January 1, 1985, conform with rules adopted
by the Director under division (B) of this section.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A), (D), or (E) of this section is guilty
of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.521) (Rev. 2022)
Statutory reference:
Suspension of probationary motorized bicycle license by the state, see R.C. §
4510.34
§ 75.03 ELECTRIC BICYCLES.
   (A)   (1)   On and after January 1, 2020, manufacturers and distributors of
electric bicycles shall permanently affix a label, in a prominent location, to
each electric bicycle. The label shall specify whether the electric bicycle is
a class 1, class 2, or class 3 electric bicycle, the top assisted speed that
the electric bicycle is capable of reaching, and the motor wattage of the
electric bicycle.
      (2)   No person shall modify an electric bicycle in a manner that changes
the top assisted speed that the electric bicycle is capable of reaching unless
the person also modifies the label required under division (A)(1) of this
section to reflect the modification.
   (B)   (1)   The manufacturer of an electric bicycle shall ensure that the
electric bicycle complies with the equipment and manufacturing requirements for
bicycles established by the consumer product safety commission under 16 C.F.R.
§§ 1512 et seq.
      (2)   The manufacturer shall manufacture all class 1 electric bicycles
and class 3 electric bicycles so that when the rider ceases pedaling the
electric motor ceases to provide assistance. The manufacturer shall manufacture
all class 2 electric bicycles so that when the rider applies the brakes or
releases or activates a switch or similar mechanism the electric motor ceases
to provide assistance.
      (3)   All class 3 electric bicycles shall be equipped with a speedometer
that displays the speed of the electric bicycle in miles per hour.
   (C)   (1)   The operation of a class 1 electric bicycle and a class 2
electric bicycle is permitted on a path set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles or on a shared-use path, unless the county, township, municipal
corporation, other local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60
with control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule prohibits the use
of a class 1 electric bicycle or class 2 electric bicycle on such a path.
      (2)   No person shall operate a class 3 electric bicycle on a path set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles or a shared-use path unless that path
is within or adjacent to a highway or the county, township, municipal
corporation, or local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60 with
control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule authorizes the use of a
class 3 electric bicycle on such a path.
      (3)   No person shall operate a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2
electric bicycle, or a class 3 electric bicycle on a path that is intended to
be used primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or other similar
uses, or any other single track or natural surface trail that has historically
been reserved for non-motorized use, unless the county, township, municipal
corporation, other local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60
with control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule authorizes the use
of a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2 electric bicycle, or a class 3
electric bicycle on such a path.
      (4)   Divisions (C)(2) and (C)(3) of this section do not apply to a law
enforcement officer, or other person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic
laws of the state, using an electric bicycle while in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
   (D)   (1)   No person under 16 years of age shall operate a class 3 electric
bicycle; however, a person under 16 years of age may ride as a passenger on a
class 3 electric bicycle that is designed to accommodate passengers.
      (2)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on a class 3 electric
bicycle unless the person is wearing a protective helmet that meets the
standards established by the Consumer Product Safety Commission or the American
Society for Testing and Materials.
   (E)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever operates
an electric bicycle in a manner that is prohibited under division (C) of this
section and whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   The offenses established under division (E)(1) of this section are
strict liability offenses and strict liability is a culpable mental state for
purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of these offenses as strict
liability offenses shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
(R.C. § 4511.522) (Rev. 2022)
§ 75.04 RULES FOR BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND SNOWMOBILES.
   (A)   As used in this section, SNOWMOBILE has the same meaning as given that
term in R.C. § 4519.01.
   (B)   (1)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall ride
other than upon or astride the permanent and regular seat attached thereto or
carry any other person upon such bicycle or electric bicycle other than upon a
firmly attached and regular seat thereon, and no person shall ride upon a
bicycle or electric bicycle other than upon such a firmly attached and regular
seat.
      (2)   No person operating a motorcycle shall ride other than upon or
astride the permanent and regular seat or saddle attached thereto, or carry any
other person upon such motorcycle other than upon a firmly attached and regular
seat or saddle thereon, and no person shall ride upon a motorcycle other than
upon such a firmly attached and regular seat or saddle.
      (3)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a
saddle other than while sitting astride the saddle, facing forward, with one
leg on each side of the motorcycle.
      (4)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a seat
other than while sitting upon the seat.
      (5)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall carry any
package, bundle, or article that prevents the driver from keeping at least one
hand upon the handlebars.
      (6)   No bicycle, electric bicycle, or motorcycle shall be used to carry
more persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
No motorcycle shall be operated on a highway when the handlebars rise higher
than the shoulders of the operator when the operator is seated in the
operator’s seat or saddle.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, no person
shall operate or be a passenger on a snowmobile or motorcycle without using
safety glasses or other protective eye device. Except as provided in division
(C)(3) of this section, no person who is under the age of 18 years, or who
holds a motorcycle operator’s endorsement or license bearing a “novice”
designation that is currently in effect as provided in R.C. § 4507.13, shall
operate a motorcycle on a highway, or be a passenger on a motorcycle, unless
wearing a protective helmet on the person’s head, and no other person shall be
a passenger on a motorcycle operated by such a person unless similarly wearing
a protective helmet. The helmet, safety glasses, or other protective eye device
shall conform with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety. The
provisions of this paragraph or a violation thereof shall not be used in the
trial of any civil action.
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, no
person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary instruction permit and
temporary instruction permit identification card issued by the Registrar of
Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 unless the person, at the time of
such operation, is wearing on the person’s head a protective helmet that
conforms with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety.
         (b)   No person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary
instruction permit and temporary instruction permit identification card issued
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 in any of the
following circumstances:
            1.   At any time when lighted lights are required by R.C. § 4513.03
(A)(1);
            2.   While carrying a passenger;
            3.   On any limited access highway or heavily congested roadway.
      (3)   Divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2)(a) of this section do not apply to a
person who operates or is a passenger in an autocycle or cab-enclosed
motorcycle when the occupant compartment top is in place enclosing the
occupants.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the carrying
of a child in a seat or trailer that is designed for carrying children and is
firmly attached to the bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B) or (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates division (B) or (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates division (B) or (C)(1) or
(C)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.53) (Rev. 2020)
§ 75.05 PROHIBITION AGAINST ATTACHING BICYCLES AND SLEDS TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person riding upon any bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster,
roller skates, sled, skateboard, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or self
to any vehicle upon a roadway.
      (2)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person riding upon any
bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skateboard, or toy
vehicle to attach the same or self to any vehicle while it is moving upon a
roadway.
      (3)   This section does not apply to towing a disabled vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.54) (Rev. 2020)
§ 75.06 RIDING BICYCLES; MOTORCYCLES ABREAST.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle upon a roadway
shall ride as near to the right side of the roadway as practicable obeying all
traffic rules applicable to vehicles and exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles, electric bicycles, or motorcycles upon a
roadway shall ride not more than two abreast in a single lane, except on paths
or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, electric
bicycles, or motorcycles.
   (C)   This section does not require a person operating a bicycle or electric
bicycle to ride at the edge of the roadway when it is unreasonable or unsafe to
do so. Conditions that may require riding away from the edge of the roadway
include when necessary to avoid fixed or moving objects, parked or moving
vehicles, surface hazards, or if it otherwise is unsafe or impracticable to do
so, including if the lane is too narrow for the bicycle or electric bicycle and
an overtaking vehicle to travel safely side by side within the lane.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.55) (Rev. 2020)
§ 75.07 EQUIPMENT OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   Every bicycle or electric bicycle when in use at the times specified
in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall be
equipped with the following:
      (1)   A lamp mounted on the front of either the bicycle or electric
bicycle or the operator that shall emit a white light visible from a distance
of at least 500 feet to the front and 300 feet to the sides. A generator-
powered lamp that emits light only when the bicycle or electric bicycle is
moving may be used to meet this requirement.
      (2)   A red reflector on the rear that shall be visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when directly in front of
lawful lower beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle;
      (3)   A lamp emitting either flashing or steady red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear shall be used in addition to the red
reflector. If the red lamp performs as a reflector in that it is visible as
specified in division (A)(2) of this section, the red lamp may serve as the
reflector and a separate reflector is not required.
   (B)   Additional lamps and reflectors may be used in addition to those
required under division (A) of this section, except that red lamps and red
reflectors shall not be used on the front of the bicycle or electric bicycle
and white lamps and white reflectors shall not be used on the rear of the
bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (C)   A bicycle or electric bicycle may be equipped with a device capable of
giving an audible signal, except that a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not
be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a bicycle or electric bicycle
any siren or whistle.
   (D)   Every bicycle and electric bicycle shall be equipped with an adequate
brake when used on a street or highway.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.56) (Rev. 2020)
SNOWMOBILES, OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLES, AND ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLES
§ 75.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed primarily for
cross-country travel on land and water, or on more than one type of terrain,
and steered by wheels or caterpillar treads, or any combination thereof,
including vehicles that operate on a cushion of air, vehicles commonly known as
all-terrain vehicles, all season vehicles, mini-bikes and trail bikes. The term
does not include a utility vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4501.01 or any vehicle
principally used in playing golf, any motor vehicle or aircraft required to be
registered under R.C. Chapter 4503 or R.C. Chapter 4561, and any vehicle
excepted from definition as a motor vehicle by R.C. § 4501.01(B).
   DEALER. Any person or firm engaged in the business of manufacturing or
selling snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, or all-purpose vehicles at
wholesale or retail, or who rents, leases or otherwise furnishes snowmobiles,
off-highway motorcycles, or all-purpose vehicles for hire.
   ELECTRONIC. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   ELECTRONIC DEALER. A dealer whom the Registrar of Motor Vehicles designates
under R.C. § 4519.511.
   ELECTRONIC RECORD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   HIGHWAY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   INTERSTATE HIGHWAY. Any part of the interstate system of highways as defined
in subsection (e), 90 Stat. 431 (1976), 23 U.S.C. § 103, as amended.
   LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAY OR FREEWAY. Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
5511.02.
   MINI-TRUCK. A vehicle that has four wheels, is propelled by an electric
motor with a rated power of 7,500 watts or less or an internal combustion
engine with a piston displacement capacity of 660 cubic centimeters or less,
has a total dry weight of 900 to 2,200 pounds, contains an enclosed cabin and a
seat for the vehicle operator, resembles a pickup truck or van with a cargo
area or bed located at the rear of the vehicle, and was not originally
manufactured to meet federal motor vehicle safety standards.
   OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE. Every motorcycle, as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that
is designed to be operated primarily on lands other than a street or highway.
   OPERATOR. Any person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle.
   OWNER. Any person or firm, other than a lienholder or dealer, having title
to a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle, or other right
to the possession thereof.
   PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4509.01.
   SNOWMOBILE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed primarily for use on snow or
ice, and steered by skis, runners or caterpillar treads.
   STATE HIGHWAY and STATE ROUTE. Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   STREET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 4519.01) (Rev. 2018)
§ 75.26 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   In addition to any rules or regulations promulgated by the Ohio
Director of Public Safety pursuant to R.C. § 4519.20 and R.C. Chapter 119,
equipment of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, and all-purpose vehicles
shall include but not necessarily be limited to requirements for the following
items of equipment:
      (1)   At least one headlight having a minimum candlepower of sufficient
intensity to reveal persons and objects at a distance of at least 100 feet
ahead under normal atmospheric conditions during hours of darkness;
      (2)   At least one red tail light having a minimum candlepower of
sufficient intensity to be plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to the
rear under normal atmospheric conditions during hours of darkness;
      (3)   Every snowmobile, while traveling on packed snow, shall be capable
of carrying a driver who weighs 175 pounds or more, and, while carrying such
driver, be capable of stopping in no more than 40 feet from an initial steady
speed of 20 miles per hour, or locking its traction belt; and
      (4)   A muffler system capable of precluding the emission of excessive
smoke or exhaust fumes, and of limiting the engine noise of vehicles. On
snowmobiles manufactured after January 1, 1973, such requirement shall include
sound dampening equipment such that noise does not exceed 82 decibels on the
“A” scale at 50 feet as measured according to SAE J192 (September 1970).
   (B)   No person shall operate any snowmobile, off- highway motorcycle, or
all-purpose vehicle in violation of this section, except that equipment
specified in division (A)(1) and (A)(2) of this section shall not be required
on snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, or all-purpose vehicles operated
during the daylight hours.
(R.C. § 4519.20(A), (B))
   (C)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, lease, rent or otherwise furnish
for hire in this municipality any new snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or
all-purpose vehicle that fails to comply with any rule adopted by the Ohio
Director of Public Safety under R.C. § 4519.20 after the effective date of the
rule.
(R.C. § 4519.22(A))
   (D)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B) of this section shall be fined not more than $50. If the offender
within the preceding year previously has committed a violation of division (B)
of this section or of R.C. § 4519.20(B), whoever violates division (B) of this
section shall be fined not less than $15 nor more than $100, imprisoned not
more than three days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.20(C)) (Rev. 2004)
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (C) of this section shall be fined not more than $50. If the offender
within the preceding year previously has committed a violation of division (C)
of this section or of R.C. § 4519.22(A), whoever violates this section shall be
fined not less than $15 nor more than $100, imprisoned not more than three
days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.22(B)) (Rev. 2004)
§ 75.27 CODE APPLICATION; PROHIBITED OPERATION.
   (A)   The applicable provisions of this traffic code apply to the operation
of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, and all-purpose vehicles, except that
no person shall operate a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all- purpose
vehicle as follows:
      (1)   On any state highway, including a limited access highway or freeway
or the right-of-way thereof, except for emergency travel during such time and
in such manner as the Ohio Director of Public Safety designates or except as
authorized by R.C. § 4519.41(F);
      (2)   On any private property, or in any nursery or planting area,
without the permission of the owner or other person having the right to
possession of the property;
      (3)   On any land or waters controlled by the state, except at those
locations where a sign has been posted permitting such operation;
      (4)   On the tracks or right-of-way of any operating railroad;
      (5)   While transporting any firearm, bow or other implement for hunting
that is not unloaded and securely encased;
      (6)   For the purpose of chasing, pursuing, capturing or killing any
animal or wild fowl; or
      (7)   During the time from sunset to sunrise, unless displaying lighted
lights as required by R.C. § 4519.20 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $500, imprisoned not less than 3 nor more than 30 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.40) (Rev. 2018)
Cross-reference:
Operation restricted for mini-trucks and low-speed, under-speed, or utility
vehicles, see §
73.16
§ 75.28 PERMITTED OPERATION.
   Snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, and all- purpose vehicles may be
operated as follows:
   (A)   To make a crossing of a highway, other than a highway as designated in
R.C. § 4519.40(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
whenever the crossing can be made in safety and will not interfere with the
movement of vehicular traffic approaching from any direction on the highway,
and provided that the operator yields the right-of-way to any approaching
traffic that presents an immediate hazard;
   (B)   On highways in the county or township road systems whenever the local
authority having jurisdiction over such highways so permits;
   (C)   Off and alongside street or highway for limited distances from the
point of unloading from a conveyance to the point at which the snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle is intended and authorized to be
operated;
   (D)   On the berm or shoulder of a highway, other than a highway as
designated in R.C. § 4519.40(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, when the terrain permits such operation to be undertaken safely and
without the necessity of entering any traffic lane;
   (E)   On the berm or shoulder or a county or township road, while traveling
from one area of operation of the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-
purpose vehicle to another such area.
   (F)   For snowmobiles without metal studded tracks and all-purpose vehicles,
on state highways located on an island in Lake Erie, including limited access
highways and freeways, between the first day of November and the thirtieth day
of April, provided that all of the following conditions apply:
      (1)   The operator has a valid driver’s license as required under R.C. §
4519.44.
      (2)   The snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle is in compliance with rules
governing safety equipment adopted under R.C. § 4519.20.
      (3)   The owner of the snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle maintains proof
of financial responsibility for both on-road and off-road use of the snowmobile
or all-purpose vehicle.
      (4)   The operator obeys all traffic rules and regulations.
(R.C. § 4519.41) (Rev. 2018)
§ 75.29 LICENSING REQUIREMENTS OF OPERATOR.
   (A)   No person who does not hold a valid, current motor vehicle driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, motorcycle operator’s endorsement or probationary
license, issued under R.C. Chapter 4506 or R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid,
current driver’s license issued by another jurisdiction, shall operate a
snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all- purpose vehicle on any street or
highway in this municipality, on any portion of the right-of-way thereof, or on
any public land or waters.
   (B)   No person who is less than 16 years of age shall operate a snowmobile,
off-highway motorcycle, or all- purpose vehicle on any land or waters other
than private property or waters owned by or leased to the person’s parent or
guardian, unless accompanied by another person who is 18 years of age or older,
and who holds a license as provided in division (A) of this section, except
that the Ohio Department of Natural Resources may permit such operation on
state controlled land under its jurisdiction when such person is less than 16
years of age and is accompanied by a parent or guardian who is a licensed
driver 18 years of age or older.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $500, imprisoned not less than 3 nor more than 30 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.44) (Rev. 2010)
§ 75.30 MAINTENANCE OF VEHICLES FOR HIRE.
   (A)   Any dealer who rents, leases or otherwise furnishes a snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all- purpose vehicle for hire shall maintain the vehicle
in safe operating condition. No dealer, or agent or employee of a dealer, shall
rent, lease or otherwise furnish a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-
purpose vehicle for hire to any person who does not hold a license as required
by R.C. § 4519.44(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or to
any person whom the dealer or an agent or employee of the dealer has reasonable
cause to believe is incompetent to operate the vehicle in a safe and lawful
manner.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $500.
(R.C. § 4519.45) (Rev. 2004)
§ 75.31 ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   (A)   The operator of a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle involved in any accident resulting in bodily injury to or death of any
person or damage to the property of any person in excess of $100 shall report
the accident within 48 hours to the Chief of Police, and within 30 days shall
forward a written report of the accident to the Ohio Registrar of Motor
Vehicles on a form prescribed by the Registrar. If the operator is physically
incapable of making the reports and there is another participant in the
accident not so incapacitated, the participant shall make the reports. In the
event there is no other participant, and the operator is other than the owner,
the owner, within the prescribed periods of time, shall make the reports.
   (B)   Any law enforcement officer or other person authorized by R.C. §§
4519.42 and 4519.43 who investigates or receives information of an accident
involving a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle shall
forward to the Registrar a written report of the accident within 48 hours.
(R.C. § 4519.46) (Rev. 1999)
§ 75.32 IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   Whenever a person is found guilty of operating a snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle in violation of any rule authorized
to be adopted under R.C. § 4519.21 or 4519.42, the trial judge of any court of
record, in addition to or independent of any other penalties provided by law,
may impound for not less than 60 days the certificate of registration and
license plate, if applicable, of that snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or
all-purpose vehicle. The court shall send the impounded certificate of
registration and license plate, if applicable, to the Registrar of Motor
Vehicles, who shall retain the certificate of registration and license plate,
if applicable, until the expiration of the period of impoundment.
   (B)   If a court impounds the certificate of registration and license plate
of an all-purpose vehicle pursuant to R.C. § 2911.21, the court shall send the
impounded certificate of registration and license plate to the Registrar, who
shall retain them until the expiration of the period of impoundment.
(R.C. § 4519.47) (Rev. 2010)
§ 75.33 LOCAL CONTROL WITHIN POLICE POWER.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall prevent the municipality from
regulating the operation of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycle, and all-
purpose vehicles on streets and highways and other public property under
municipal jurisdiction, and within the reasonable exercise of the police power,
except that no registration or licensing of any snowmobile, off-highway
motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle required to be registered or titled under
R.C. Chapter 4519 shall be required.
(R.C. § 4519.48) (Rev. 1999)
§ 75.34 REGISTRATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B), (C) and (D) of this section,
no person shall operate any snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle within this municipality unless the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle,
or all-purpose vehicle is registered and numbered in accordance with R.C. §§
4519.03 and 4519.04.
      (2)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4511.215 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, no registration is required for a mini-truck that is
operated within this state. A mini-truck may be operated only in accordance
with R.C. § 4511.215 and R.C. § 4519.401, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (B)   (1)   No registration is required for a snowmobile or off-highway
motorcycle that is operated exclusively upon lands owned by the owner of the
snowmobile or off-highway motorcycle, or on lands to which the owner of the
snowmobile or off-highway motorcycle has a contractual right.
      (2)   No registration is required for an all-purpose vehicle that is used
primarily for agricultural purposes when the owner qualifies for the current
agricultural use valuation tax credit, unless it is to be used on any public
land, trail, or right-of-way.
      (3)   Any all-purpose vehicle exempted from registration under division
(B)(2) of this section and operated for agricultural purposes may use public
roads and rights-of-way when traveling from one farm field to another, when
such use does not violate R.C. § 4519.41.
      (4)   No registration is required for a snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle
that is operated on a state highway as authorized by R.C. § 4519.41(F).
   (C)   No registration is required for a snowmobile, off- highway motorcycle,
or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this state by a resident of another
state whenever that state has in effect a registration law similar to R.C.
Chapter 4519 and the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle
is properly registered under that state’s law. Any snowmobile, off-highway
motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this state by a resident
of a state not having a registration law similar to R.C. Chapter 4519 shall
comply with R.C. § 4519.09.
   (D)   No registration is required for a snowmobile, off- highway motorcycle,
or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this municipality by the United
States, another state or a political subdivision thereof, but the snowmobile,
off- highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle shall display the name of the
owner thereon.
   (E)   The owner or operator of any all-purpose vehicle operated or used upon
the waters in this municipality shall comply with R.C. Chapter 1547 and R.C.
Chapter 1548 relative to the operation of watercraft.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $100.
(R.C. § 4519.02) (Rev. 2019)
Statutory reference:
Destruction or disposal of vehicle; transfer of ownership; change of address;
loss of certificate, see R.C. § 4519.05
Registration of emergency vehicles, see R.C. § 4519.08
Registration procedure, see R.C. § 4519.03
Temporary license placards and fees, see R.C. § 4519.10
Temporary operating permit for certain nonresidents, see R.C. § 4519.09
§ 75.35 CERTIFICATE OF TITLE; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate in this state an off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle without having a certificate of title for the off-highway motorcycle or
all- purpose vehicle if such a certificate is required by R.C. Chapter 4519 to
be issued for the off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle, or, if a
physical certificate of title has not been issued for it, operate an off-
highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle knowing that the ownership
information related to the motorcycle or vehicle has not been entered into the
automated title processing system by a Clerk of a Court of Common Pleas.
      (2)   Operate in this municipality an off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle is a certificate of title to the off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle has been issued and then has been canceled.
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title upon cancellation of it
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles and notice of the cancellation as prescribed
in R.C. Chapter 4519.
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a Clerk of a Court of
Common Pleas as provided in R.C. Chapter 4519, in case of the destruction or
dismantling of, or change in, the off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle
described in the certificate of title.
      (5)   Violate any provision of R.C. §§ 4519.51 through 4519.70 for which
no penalty is otherwise provided or any lawful rules adopted pursuant to those
sections.
      (6)   Operate in this state an off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle knowing that the certificate of title to or ownership of the motorcycle
or vehicle as otherwise reflected in the automated title processing system has
been canceled.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $200,
imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.66) (Rev. 2010)
Statutory reference:
Certificate of title: rules and procedures, see R.C. §§ 4519.51 et seq.
Stolen vehicles and restrictions on sale or transfer, felony provisions, see
R.C. § 4519.67
CHAPTER 76: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
76.01   Prohibition against parking on highways
   
76.02   Condition when motor vehicle left unattended
   
76.03   Police may remove illegally parked vehicle
   
76.04   Parking prohibitions
   
76.05   Parking near curb; privileges for persons with disabilities
   
76.06   Parking on private property in violation of posted prohibition
   
76.07   Selling, washing or repairing vehicle upon roadway
   
76.08   Truck loading zones
   
76.09   Bus stops and taxicab stands
   
76.10   Parking in alleys and narrow streets; exceptions
   
76.11   Registered owner prima facie liable for unlawful parking
   
76.12   Waiver
Cross-reference:
Unclaimed and abandoned vehicles, see
Chapter 95
Unlawful furnishing of prescription to enable persons to be issued handicapped
parking placards or license plates, see §
138.17
Statutory reference:
Noncriminal parking infractions, local option to create, see R.C. Chapter 4521
§ 76.01 PROHIBITION AGAINST PARKING ON HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon any highway, no person shall stop, park, or leave standing
any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the paved or main traveled
part of the highway if it is practicable to stop, park, or so leave such
vehicle off the paved or main traveled part of the highway. In every event a
clear and unobstructed portion of the highway opposite such standing vehicle
shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles, and a clear view of such
stopped vehicle shall be available from a distance of 200 feet in each
direction upon such highway.
      (2)   This section does not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the paved or improved or main traveled portion of a highway
in such manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving the disabled vehicle in such position.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.66) (Rev. 2004)
§ 76.02 CONDITION WHEN MOTOR VEHICLE LEFT UNATTENDED.
   (A)   (1)   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit
it to stand unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition,
removing the key from the ignition, effectively setting the parking brake, and,
when the motor vehicle is standing upon any grade, turning the front wheels to
the curb or side of the highway.
      (2)   The requirements of this section relating to the stopping of the
engine, locking of the ignition, and removing the key from the ignition of a
motor vehicle do not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   A motor vehicle that is parked on residential property;
         (b)   A motor vehicle that is locked, regardless of where it is
parked;
         (c)   An emergency vehicle ;
         (d)   A public safety vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.661) (Rev. 2018)
§ 76.03 POLICE MAY REMOVE ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in
violation of R.C. § 4511.66 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
such officer may move such vehicle, or require the driver or other person in
charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position off the paved or improved
or main traveled part of such highway.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any
highway, bridge, or causeway, or in any tunnel, where such vehicles constitutes
an obstruction to traffic, such officer may provide for the removal of such
vehicle to the nearest garage or other place of safety.
(R.C. § 4511.67) (Rev. 1999)
§ 76.04 PARKING PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or to comply with the provisions of this
title, or while obeying the directions of a police officer or a traffic-control
device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk, except as provided in division (B) of this section;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet of, and upon the approach to, any flashing beacon,
stop sign, or traffic-control device;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by a traffic-control device;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of a driveway entrance to any fire station and, on
the side of the street opposite the entrance to any fire station, within 75
feet of the entrance when it is properly posted with signs;
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
such standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   Alongside any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or elevated structure upon a highway, or within a
highway tunnel;
      (14)   At any place where signs prohibit stopping;
      (15)   Within one foot of another parked vehicle;
      (16)   On the roadway portion of a freeway, expressway, or thruway.
   (B)   A person is permitted, without charge or restriction, to stand or park
on a sidewalk a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter that has an engine not
larger than 150 cubic centimeters, a low-speed micromobility device, or a
bicycle or electric bicycle, provided that the motor-driven cycle, motor
scooter, low-speed micromobility device, bicycle, or electric bicycle does not
impede the normal flow of pedestrian traffic. This division does not authorize
any person to operate a vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.711, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.68) (Rev. 2022)
§ 76.05 PARKING NEAR CURB; PRIVILEGES FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   (A)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there is an
adjacent curb shall be stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels of the
vehicle parallel with and not more than 12 inches from the right-hand curb,
unless it is impossible to approach so close to the curb; in such case the stop
shall be made as close to the curb as possible and only for the time necessary
to discharge and receive passengers or to load or unload merchandise. Local
authorities by ordinance may permit angle parking on any roadway under their
jurisdiction, except that angle parking shall not be permitted on a state route
within the municipality unless an unoccupied roadway width of not less than 25
feet is available for free-moving traffic.
   (B)   Local authorities by ordinance may permit parking of vehicles with the
left-hand wheels adjacent to and within 12 inches of the left-hand curb of a
one-way roadway.
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(1)(b) of this section,
no vehicle shall be stopped or parked on a road or highway with the vehicle
facing in a direction other than the direction of travel on that side of the
road or highway.
         (b)   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into an
angled parking space so that when the motorcycle is parked it is facing in a
direction other than the direction of travel on the side of the road or
highway.
      (2)   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into a parking
space that is located on the side of, and parallel to, a road or highway. The
motorcycle may face any direction when so parked. Not more than two motorcycles
at a time shall be parked in a parking space as described in division (C)(2) of
this section irrespective of whether or not the space is metered.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any statute or any rule, regulation, resolution, or
ordinance, air compressors, tractors, trucks, and other equipment, while being
used in the construction, reconstruction, installation, repair, or removal of
facilities near, on, over, or under a street or highway, may stop, stand, or
park where necessary in order to perform such work, provided a flagperson is on
duty or warning signs or lights are displayed as may be prescribed by the
Director of Transportation.
   (E)   Special parking locations and privileges for persons with disabilities
that limit or impair the ability to walk, also known as handicapped parking
spaces or disability parking spaces, shall be provided and designated by all
political subdivisions and by the state and all agencies and instrumentalities
thereof at all offices and facilities where parking is provided, whether owned,
rented, or leased, and at all publicly owned parking garages. The locations
shall be designated through the posting of an elevated sign, whether
permanently affixed or movable, imprinted with the international symbol of
access and shall be reasonably close to exits, entrances, elevators, and ramps.
All elevated signs posted in accordance with this division and R.C. § 3781.111
(C) shall be mounted on a fixed or movable post, and the distance from the
ground to the bottom edge of the sign shall measure not less than five feet. If
a new sign or a replacement sign designating a special parking location is
posted on or after October 14, 1999, there also shall be affixed upon the
surface of that sign or affixed next to the designating sign a notice that
states the fine applicable for the offense of parking a motor vehicle in the
special designated parking location if the motor vehicle is not legally
entitled to be parked in that location.
   (F)   (1)   (a)   No person shall stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle at
special parking locations provided under division (E) of this section, or at
special clearly marked parking locations provided in or on privately owned
parking lots, parking garages, or other parking areas and designated in
accordance with that division, unless one of the following applies:
            1.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a valid removable windshield placard or special license plates; or
            2.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a handicapped person and is displaying a parking card or special handicapped
license plates.
         (b)   Any motor vehicle that is parked in a special marked parking
location in violation of division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section
may be towed or otherwise removed from the parking location by the law
enforcement agency of the municipality. A motor vehicle that is so towed or
removed shall not be released to its owner until the owner presents proof of
ownership of the motor vehicle and pays all towing and storage fees normally
imposed by the municipality for towing and storing motor vehicles. If the motor
vehicle is a leased vehicle, it shall not be released to the lessee until the
lessee presents proof that that person is the lessee of the motor vehicle and
pays all towing and storage fees normally imposed by the municipality for
towing and storing motor vehicles.
         (c)   If a person is charged with a violation of division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section, it is an affirmative defense to the charge that
the person suffered an injury not more than 72 hours prior to the time the
person was issued the ticket or citation and that, because of the injury, the
person meets at least one of the criteria contained in R.C. § 4503.44(A)(1).
      (2)    No person shall stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle in an area
that is commonly known as an access aisle, which area is marked by diagonal
stripes and is located immediately adjacent to a special parking location
provided under division (E) of this section or at a special clearly marked
parking location provided in or on a privately owned parking lot, parking
garage, or other parking area and designated in accordance with that division.
   (G)   When a motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a
person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a removable windshield placard or a temporary removable windshield
placard or special license plates, or when a motor vehicle is being operated by
or for the transport of a handicapped person, and is displaying a parking card
or special handicapped license plates, the motor vehicle is permitted to park
for a period of two hours in excess of the legal parking period permitted by
local authorities, except where local ordinances or police rules provide
otherwise or where the vehicle is parked in such a manner as to be clearly a
traffic hazard.
   (H)   No owner of an office, facility, or parking garage where special
parking locations are required to be designated in accordance with division (E)
of this section shall fail to properly mark the special parking locations in
accordance with that division or fail to maintain the markings of the special
locations, including the erection and maintenance of the fixed or movable
signs.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require a person or
organization to apply for a removable windshield placard or special license
plates if the parking card or special license plates issued to the person or
organization under prior law have not expired or been surrendered or revoked.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      HANDICAPPED PERSON. Means any person who has lost the use of one or both
legs or one or both arms, who is blind, deaf, or so severely handicapped as to
be unable to move without the aid of crutches or a wheelchair, or whose
mobility is restricted by a permanent cardiovascular, pulmonary, or other
handicapping condition.
      PERSON WITH A DISABILITY THAT LIMITS OR IMPAIRS THE ABILITY TO WALK. Has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 4503.44.
      SPECIAL LICENSE PLATES and REMOVABLE WINDSHIELD PLACARD. Mean any license
plates or removable windshield placard or temporary removable windshield
placard issued under R.C. § 4503.41 or 4503.44, and also mean any substantially
equivalent license plates or removable windshield placard or temporary
removable windshield placard issued by a state, district, country, or
sovereignty.
   (K)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (A) or (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in
division (K)(2)(a) and (K)(2)(b) of this section. Except as otherwise provided
in division (K)(2)(a) of this section, an offender who violates division (F)(1)
(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section shall be fined not less than $250 nor more
than $500. An offender who violates division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section shall be fined not more than $100 if the offender, prior to sentencing,
proves either of the following to the satisfaction of the court:
            1.   At the time of the violation of division (F)(1)(a)1. of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a removable windshield placard that then was
valid or special license plates that then were valid but the offender or the
person neglected to display the placard or license plates as described in
division (F)(1)(a)1. of this section.
            2.   At the time of the violation of division (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a parking card that then was valid or special
handicapped license plates that then were valid but the offender or the person
neglected to display the card or license plates as described in division (F)(1)
(a)2. of this section.
         (b)   In no case shall an offender who violates division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. be sentenced to any term of imprisonment.
         (c)   An arrest or conviction for a violation of division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section does not constitute a criminal record and need
not be reported by the person so arrested or convicted in response to any
inquiries contained in any application for employment, license, or other right
or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s appearance as a witness.
         (d)   The clerk of the court shall pay every fine collected under
divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of this section to the municipality. Except as
provided in division (K)(2) of this section, the municipality shall use the
fine moneys it receives under divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of this section to
pay the expenses it incurs in complying with the signage and notice
requirements contained in division (E) of this section. The municipality may
use up to 50% of each fine it receives under divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of
this section to pay the costs of educational, advocacy, support, and assistive
technology programs for persons with disabilities, and for public improvements
within the municipality that benefit or assist persons with disabilities, if
governmental agencies or nonprofit organizations offer the programs.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (F)(2) of this section shall be fined not
less than $250 nor more than $500. In no case shall an offender who violates
division (F)(2) of this section be sentenced to any term of imprisonment. An
arrest or conviction for a violation of division (F)(2) of this section does
not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries contained in any application
for employment, license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection
with the person’s appearance as a witness.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (H) of this section shall be punished as
follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (K)(4) of this section,
the offender shall be issued a warning.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (H) of this section or of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to that division, the offender shall
not be issued a warning but shall be fined not more than $25 for each parking
location that is not properly marked or whose markings are not properly
maintained.
(R.C. § 4511.69) (Rev. 2016)
Cross-reference:
Unlawful furnishing of prescription to enable persons to be issued handicapped
parking placards or license plates, see §
138.17
Statutory reference:
Buildings, access for disabled persons, see R.C. § 3781.111
§ 76.06 PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY IN VIOLATION OF POSTED PROHIBITION.
   (A)   If an owner of private property posts on the property in a conspicuous
manner a prohibition against parking on the property or conditions and
regulations under which parking is permitted, no person shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   Park a vehicle on the property without the owner’s consent;
      (2)   Park a vehicle on the property in violation of any condition or
regulation posted by the owner.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.681) (Rev. 2004)
Cross-reference:
Towing from private property, requirements, see §
95.01
§ 76.07 SELLING, WASHING OR REPAIRING VEHICLE UPON ROADWAY.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon any roadway for the
principal purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying such vehicle for sale; or
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle except repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
(Rev. 2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.08 TRUCK LOADING ZONES.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of
time, other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup and
loading of materials, in any place marked as a truck loading zone during hours
when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no case shall
the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes.
(Rev. 2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.09 BUS STOPS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a
bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand, when any such stop or
stand has been officially designated and appropriately posted, except that the
driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of,
and while actually engaged in, loading or unloading passengers when such
stopping does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about
to enter such zone, and then only for a period not to exceed three minutes, if
such stopping is not prohibited therein by posted signs.
   (B)   No operator of a bus shall stop, stand or park such vehicle upon any
street or other public way at any place for the purpose of loading or unloading
passengers or their baggage other than at a bus stop so designated and posted
as such, except in case of an emergency.
   (C)   No operator of a bus shall fail to enter a bus stop on a street or
other public way in such a manner that the bus when stopped to load or unload
passengers or baggage is in a position with the right front wheel of such
vehicle not further than 18 inches from the curb and the bus approximately
parallel to the curb so as not to unduly impede the movement of other vehicular
traffic.
   (D)   No operator of a taxicab shall stand or park such vehicle upon any
street or other public way at any place other than in a taxicab stand so
designated and posted as such. This provision shall not prevent the operator of
a taxicab from temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or
parking provisions at any place for the purpose of, and while actually engaged
in, the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers.
(Rev. 2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.10 PARKING IN ALLEYS AND NARROW STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon a street, other
than an alley, in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available
less than ten feet of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular
traffic, except that a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or
unloading of passengers or when directed to by a police officer or traffic
control signal.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by law, no person shall stop, stand or
park a vehicle within an alley except while actually loading and unloading, and
then only for a period not to exceed 30 minutes.
(Rev. 2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.11 REGISTERED OWNER PRIMA FACIE LIABLE FOR UNLAWFUL PARKING.
   In any hearing on a charge of illegally parking a motor vehicle, testimony
that a vehicle bearing a certain license plate was found unlawfully parked as
prohibited by the provisions of this Traffic Code, and further testimony that
the record of the Ohio Registrar of Motor Vehicles shows that the license plate
was issued to the defendant, shall be prima facie evidence that the vehicle
which was unlawfully parked, was so parked by the defendant. A certified
registration copy, showing such fact, from the Registrar shall be proof of such
ownership.
(Rev. 2002)
§ 76.12 WAIVER.
   Any person charged with a violation of any provision of this chapter for
which payment of a prescribed fine may be made, may pay such sum in the manner
prescribed on the issued traffic ticket. Such payment shall be deemed a plea of
guilty, waiver of court appearance and acknowledgment of conviction of the
alleged offense and may be accepted in full satisfaction of the prescribed
penalty for such alleged violation. Payment of the prescribed fine need not be
accepted when laws prescribe that a certain number of such offenses shall
require court appearance.
(Rev. 2002)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
91.   JUNKED OR ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
92.   NUISANCES; ENVIRONMENT AND SANITATION
      
93.   ANIMALS
      
94.   TREES AND SHRUBS
      
95.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
96.   CEMETERIES
CHAPTER 90: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Regulations on establishing driveways; access to public streets
   
90.02   Use of public sidewalks for commercial activities
   
90.03   School zone established
Removal of Obstructive Materials
   
90.15   Deposits on streets or alleys prohibited
   
90.16   Removal of snow and ice from sidewalks
Excavation or Openings in Any Portion of Streets, Alleys, or Rights-of-Way
   
90.30   Permit required
   
90.31   Responsibility for excavation
   
90.32   Cost to be borne by permit holder
   
90.33   Excavation to be properly backfilled
   
90.34   Material to be used
   
90.35   Notification prior to construction
Sidewalk Repair or Replacement
   
90.50   Specifications for construction
   
90.51   Reimbursement of property owners
   
90.52   Conformity required
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   School Street and School Alley, parking restrictions, see
Title VII, Appendix B, Schedule II
   Snow emergency, parking restrictions, see
Title VII, Appendix C, Schedule III
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 REGULATIONS ON ESTABLISHING DRIVEWAYS; ACCESS TO PUBLIC STREETS.
   (A)    No more than one driveway shall be permitted for any property unless
otherwise approved by the Village Planning Commission. For purposes of this
section, a PROPERTY shall include abutting parcels having a common owner.
   (B)   Residential lots shall have a maximum drive width of 24 feet with a
maximum width of 34 feet at the curb line.
   (C)   Business/commercial driveways shall have a maximum width of 35 feet
with a maximum width of 75 feet at the curb line to allow for flares or drive
radii.
(Ord. 36-03, passed 10-6-2003)
§ 90.02 USE OF PUBLIC SIDEWALKS FOR COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   No owner, occupant, or person having the care of any building or lot
of land bordering on any sidewalk shall permit the sidewalk to become
encumbered or obstructed with commercial wares, displays, or merchandise so as
to prevent the public’s free or reasonable passage.
   (B)   An owner, occupant, or person having the care of any building or lot
of land bordering on any sidewalk in a commercial or business district may
erect temporary displays on those portions of the sidewalks, provided the
displays do not project more than three feet from the building into the
sidewalk space available to the public and division (A) above is not violated.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 30-06, passed 8-21-2006) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 SCHOOL ZONE ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   A school zone as provided by R.C. § 4511.21 is established on Main
Street (State Route 13) from a point 300 feet south of the crosswalk at the
intersection of Main Street and School Street and to a point 300 feet north of
the crosswalk at the intersection of Main Street and School Street.
   (B)   The Street Superintendent shall place the special markings on the
pavement as required by the State Department of Transportation indicating the
principal school pupil crosswalk and erect the appropriate signs giving notice
of the existence of the school.
(Ord. 45-86, passed 11-18-1986)
REMOVAL OF OBSTRUCTIVE MATERIALS
§ 90.15 DEPOSITS ON STREETS OR ALLEYS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person by any means, including by blowing, plowing, or dumping,
shall deposit snow, leaves, grass, mud, or other debris in or onto the traveled
portion of any village street or alley so as to create an unreasonable risk or
safety hazard to motor vehicles using the street.
   (B)   Any person violating this section shall be guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 09-07, passed 2-19-2007) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.16 REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE FROM SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the village abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his or her premises free and clear of snow and ice, and to
remove therefrom all snow and ice accumulated thereon within a reasonable time,
which will ordinarily not exceed 12 hours after the abatement of any storm
during which the snow and ice may have accumulated.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 36-84, passed 12-18-1984) Penalty, see §
90.99
EXCAVATION OR OPENINGS IN ANY PORTION OF STREETS, ALLEYS, OR RIGHTS-OF-WAY
§ 90.30 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall make an excavation, trench, or other opening in or boring
under any portion of any street, alley, or other public right-of-way without
obtaining a permit from the Village Administrator or his designee.
(Ord. 25-2015, passed 9-1-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.31 RESPONSIBILITY FOR EXCAVATION.
   The full primary responsibility of any street boring excavation, trench, or
other opening shall be that of the permit applicant, who shall at all times
keep the same properly guarded and enclosed so that the safety of person,
utilities, and vehicles using the street, alley, or right-of-way will be
assured. This responsibility shall continue until permanent replacement of the
pavement or the right-of-way surface to its original status is made and the
removal of all equipment and obstructions in the right-of-way and shall include
the defense, settlement, and payment of any and all claims, actions, and court
judgments for damages or injuries to anyone arising in any way out of the
creation or maintenance of the boring, excavation, or other opening by the
permit holder. The permanent replacement of the pavement or right-of-way to its
original status shall be inspected by the Village Administrator or his designee
and shall be subject to his written approval before the permit applicant is
released from his responsibilities under this subchapter.
(Ord. 25-2015, passed 9-1-2015)
§ 90.32 COST TO BE BORNE BY PERMIT HOLDER.
   Whenever the pavement or other surface is disturbed it will be replaced to
its former state of usefulness by the permit holder and the entire cost of such
work shall be borne by the permit holder. Until such time as the base and
surface shall have been replaced or the obstruction to use the right-of-way has
been removed, any cost of maintenance of keeping the roadway in passable
condition shall be borne by the permit holder.
(Ord. 25-2015, passed 9-1-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.33 EXCAVATION TO BE PROPERLY BACKFILLED.
   (A)   After any pipes, conduits, drains, or other underground structures are
laid or any excavation is made in the road, the trenches or openings shall be
properly backfilled with approved backfill material. Trench backfill shall
include material placed above a plane six inches above the barrel of the pipe.
The backfill material shall consist of Item 310.12, Ohio Department of
Transportation Specifications granular backfill, and shall be mechanically
tamped in eight inch layers. Driving of the trench, using the bucket of a
backhoe, or jetting the trench shall not be considered as alternatives to
mechanical tamping.
   (B)   All backfill material must be approved by the Village Street
Superintendent prior to placement.
(Ord. 25-2015, passed 9-1-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.34 MATERIAL TO BE USED.
   Material satisfactory to the Village Street Superintendent shall be used as
the final course so there will be a firm and solid surface. In no case shall
the material so placed be allowed to project above or below the grade of the
road as originally established. All surplus material shall be removed in a
manner satisfactory to the Village Street Superintendent. The permit holder
shall maintain the pavement and berm over the trench in a manner acceptable to
the Village Street Superintendent. The surface and base of the disturbed
pavement shall be replaced with the material specified by the Village Street
Superintendent and according to his specifications. The area of pavement to be
replaced shall extend 12 inches outside the limits of the ditch in all
directions. The pavement will be replaced with eight inches of concrete and
overlaid with four inches of asphalt ODOT 404 if the existing pavement is
asphalt.
(Ord. 25-2015, passed 9-1-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.35 NOTIFICATION PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The Village Administrator shall be notified 24 hours prior to the beginning
of actual construction or boring.
(Ord. 25-2015, passed 9-1-2015)
SIDEWALK REPAIR OR REPLACEMENT
§ 90.50 SPECIFICATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION.
   It is hereby determined to establish the below listed specifications for the
replacing or repairing of any and all sidewalks in the business and residential
zoned portions of the village.
   (A)   All sidewalks will be constructed of six and one-half bag mix concrete
per cubic yard.
   (B)   The width of new sidewalks shall be a minimum of four feet unless
otherwise approved, which approval may be granted in certain instances to
conform to existing adjoining walks.
   (C)   The street edge of the new sidewalk shall form a straight line with
the outer or street edge of adjoining walls on each end, regardless of any
difference in overall width.
   (D)   All new sidewalks will be a minimum of four inches thick except at
driveways, where they shall be a minimum of six inches thick.
   (E)   Grading of new sidewalks shall conform to street level and provide
proper drainage, which shall necessitate a slope of at least one inch toward
the street for each four feet in width of the new sidewalk.
   (F)   Owners of residential property should take notice that the state has
in certain instances established specifications for the replacing or repairing
of sidewalks, and in the event that any state requirements are more exacting or
extensive than the within specifications, the state requirements shall take
precedence over the specifications established herein.
(Ord. 21-86, passed 5-20-1986)
§ 90.51 REIMBURSEMENT OF PROPERTY OWNERS.
   The village will not reimburse property owners for installation or repair of
sidewalks.
(Ord. 21-86, passed 5-20-1986; Am. Ord. 47-2018, passed 11-6-2018)
§ 90.52 CONFORMITY REQUIRED.
   All business and residential sidewalks shall conform to the specifications
for construction established herein. It is the specific intention of the
Village Council that no sidewalks be constructed within the village of any
other material than concrete.
(Ord. 21-86, passed 5-20-1986; Am. Ord. 47-2018, passed 11-6-2018)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
90.30 through
90.35 shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100, and each day’s
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 25-2015, passed 9-1-2015)
CHAPTER 91: JUNKED OR ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Prohibition
   
91.03   Storage on property
   
91.04   Notice of violation
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Junk motor vehicles defined, see also §
92.03
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COLLECTOR’S VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle or agricultural tractor or traction
engine that is of special interest, that has a fair market value of $100 or
more, whether operable or not, and that is owned, operated, collected,
preserved, restored, maintained, or used essentially as a collector’s item,
leisure pursuit, or investment, but not as the owner’s principal means of
transportation.
   JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle meeting the following requirements:
      (1)   Three years old, or older;
      (2)   Extensive damages, the damage including but not limited to any of
the following: missing wheels, tires, motor, or transmission;
      (3)   Apparently inoperable; and
      (4)   Having a fair market value of $400 or less.
   LICENSED COLLECTOR’S VEHICLE. A collector’s vehicle, other than an
agricultural tractor or traction engine, that displays current, valid license
tags issued under R.C. § 4503.45, or a similar type of motor vehicle that
displays current, valid license tags issued under substantially equivalent
provisions in the laws of other states.
(Ord. 27-97, passed 7-7-1997)
§ 91.02 PROHIBITION.
   (A)   No person shall park or keep any junk motor vehicle, unlicensed
collector’s vehicle, or any other inoperable motor vehicle on a public street
or other public property, or upon or within the right-of-way of any road or
highway within the village.
   (B)   No person shall leave any motor vehicle, other than an abandoned junk
motor vehicle, as defined in R.C. § 4513.63, on private residential or private
agricultural property for more than four hours without the permission of the
person having the right to the possession of the property, or on a public
street or other property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel,
or upon or within the right-of-way of any road or highway, for 48 hours or
longer, without notification to the Chief of Police of the reasons for leaving
the motor vehicle in that place.
(Ord. 27-97, passed 7-7-1997; Ord. 07-08, passed 2-18-2008) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 STORAGE ON PROPERTY.
   No person having the right to the possession of the property on which a junk
motor vehicle or unlicensed collector’s vehicle is left shall permit the
vehicles to be stored on the property except by being housed in a garage or
other suitable structure, or otherwise they shall be removed from the property.
(Ord. 27-97, passed 7-7-1997) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Any person determined by the Chief of Police to be in violation of this
chapter shall be sent notice by certified mail. No person shall willfully leave
a junk motor vehicle or unlicensed collector’s vehicle not housed in accordance
with this chapter for more than ten days after receipt of the notice. Each
subsequent period of 30 days that a junk motor vehicle or unlicensed
collector’s vehicle continues to be so left constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 27-97, passed 7-7-1997) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates this chapter is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree; on each subsequent offense, the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Ord. 27-97, passed 7-7-1997)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES; ENVIRONMENT AND SANITATION
Section
Accumulation of Junk, Litter, and Trash
   
92.01   Declared a public nuisance
   
92.02   Collection, accumulation, and remaining on property prohibited
   
92.03   Definitions
   
92.04   Notice
   
92.05   Failure to comply
   
92.06   Exceptions
Burning of Waste, Trash, and Leaves
   
92.15   Burning prohibited
   
92.16   Open burning permit
   
92.17   Recreational fire pits
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Junked or Abandoned Vehicles, see
Chapter 91
ACCUMULATION OF JUNK, LITTER, AND TRASH
§ 92.01 DECLARED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   All litter, junk, or trash that has been placed, thrown, discarded, or
deposited, or caused to be placed, thrown, discarded, or deposited, regardless
of intent, upon any lot, lands, or premises within the village constitutes a
detriment to the public health, safety, or welfare as a public nuisance.
(Ord. 2010-71, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 COLLECTION, ACCUMULATION, AND REMAINING ON PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   No owner, agent, tenant, or person having charge of or responsibility for
any lot, lands, or premises within the village shall cause or allow litter,
junk, trash, or abandoned refrigerators or airtight containers to collect,
accumulate, or remain upon any lot, lands, or premises.
(Ord. 2010-71, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS OR AIRTIGHT CONTAINERS. Any abandoned or discarded
icebox, refrigerator, or other airtight or semi-airtight container in a place
accessible to children which has a capacity of one and one-half cubic feet or
more and an opening of 50 square inches or more and which has a door or lid
equipped with a hinge, latch, or other fastening device capable of securing the
door or lid, without rendering the equipment harmless to human life by removing
the hinges, latches, or other hardware which may cause a person to be confined
therein. This section shall not apply to an icebox, refrigerator, or other
airtight or semi-airtight container located in the part of a building occupied
by a dealer, warehouse official, or repair technician.
   JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE. The same meaning as a “salvage motor vehicle” defined by
R.C. § 4738.01(B).
   LITTER, JUNK, OR TRASH.  Any garbage, waste, peelings of vegetables or
fruits, rubbish, ashes, cans, bottles, wire, oil, paper, cartons, boxes,
junked, dismantled or wrecked automobiles or parts thereof, appliances,
furniture, glass, old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, rubber,
iron, steel, or anything else of an unsightly, unsafe, or unsanitary nature,
whether or not being for sale, salvage, refuse, or recycling.
(Ord. 2010-71, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 92.04 NOTICE.
   (A)   Upon information that litter, junk, or trash has been allowed to
collect, accumulate, or remain upon any lot, lands, or premises in the village
in violation of §
92.02, the Zoning Inspector shall issue a written notice of violations to the
owner and/or upon the lessee, agent, tenant, or person having charge of or
responsibility for maintenance of the lot, lands, or premises that the litter
must be collected and removed within 30 days after service of the notice. This
notice shall be served by sending it by certified U.S. mail or by personal
service to the owners of record and holders of legal or equitable liens of
record. Notice shall also be sent by regular U.S. mail to the lessee, agent,
tenant, or person having charge of or responsibility for maintenance of any
lot, lands, or premises, at his or her address.
   (B)   If the address of the owner, lessee, agent, tenant, or person having
charge of or responsibility for the lot, lands, or premises cannot be
ascertained with reasonable diligence, it is sufficient to serve notice of
violations by sending it by regular U.S. mail to the listed owner of record
according to the records of the County Auditor.
   (C)   Every notice to remove litter, junk, or trash shall state that if the
notice is not complied with within the time limit provided therein, in addition
to the penalty provided in §
92.99, the Zoning Inspector may pursue either or both of the actions provided
in §
92.05.
   (D)   When a written notice of the violation has been issued in accordance
with the provisions of this section, the notice shall constitute adequate and
effective notice for all enforcement purposes under this subchapter, with
respect to continuing or repeat violations of §
92.02, for a period of one year following the date the initial notice is given.
(Ord. 2010-71, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   If the owner, lessee, agent, tenant, or person having charge of or
responsibility for the maintenance of any lot, land, or premises fails to
comply with the written notice, the Mayor or his or her designee shall
thereupon cause the litter, junk, or trash to be collected, removed and
lawfully disposed of, and for that purpose he or she may employ the necessary
labor to carry out the provisions of this section. All expenses of labor and
costs incurred shall, when approved by the Mayor or his or her designee, be
paid out of municipal funds not otherwise appropriated.
   (B)   When the Mayor or his or her designee causes litter, junk, or trash to
be removed, as provided in division (A) above, a statement of the costs shall
be mailed to the owner of the lot, lands, or premises by certified mail, return
receipt requested.
      (1)   This statement of cost shall include the following costs to the
village:
         (a)   Administration and supervision;
         (b)   Transportation of equipment;
         (c)   Equipment rental;
         (d)   Equipment operator;
         (e)   Incidental labor; and
         (f)   Dumping, disposal fees.
      (2)   The fee to be charged for labor shall be $75 for the first hour or
portion thereof and $60 for each additional hour or portion thereof, or the
actual costs incurred by the village, whichever is greater.
   (C)   If the owner of the lot, lands, or premises fails to pay the fee
charged by division (B) within 30 days from receipt of the statement of costs,
the Mayor may commence and pursue the appropriate civil action against the
owner to collect the amount due to the village; or
   (D)   The Mayor is authorized to make a written account to the County
Auditor of his or her actions under this subchapter and a proper description of
the lot, lands, or premises involved. The amounts, when allowed, shall be
entered upon the tax duplicate and shall be a lien upon the lot, lands, or
premises from and after the date of the entry and be collected as other taxes
and returned to the Village General Fund.
(Ord. 2010-71, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 92.06 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter does not apply to land being used under a municipal building
or construction permit or license, or a conditional zoning permit or variance
to operate a junk yard, scrap metal processing facility, or similar business or
similar businesses, or a permit or license issued pursuant to the Ohio Revised
Code.
(Ord. 2010-71, passed 6-7-2010)
BURNING OF WASTE, TRASH, AND LEAVES
§ 92.15 BURNING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall burn any waste, leaves, trash, garbage, debris, or any other
material within the village except as provided by §
92.16.
(Ord. 29-81, passed 8-18-1981) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.16 OPEN BURNING PERMIT.
   (A)   On application to the Village Fire Chief for an open burning permit by
a contractor for the construction of a building(s), a permit may be issued to
burn natural wood, herbaceous material, lumber, paper, cardboard, and wooden
boxes at the construction site. The permit shall be for 90 days and can be
renewed.
   (B)   The permit may be suspended by the Fire Chief if an investigation
produces evidence of any of the following:
      (1)   Products having a rubber or petroleum base have been burned; or
      (2)   Burning has not been supervised at all times by an employee.
   (C)   Within 28 days, but no sooner than seven days after the suspension of
the permit, the Village Fire Chief shall hold a hearing to determine whether
this section has been violated. If violations are found to have occurred, the
Village Fire Chief may revoke the permit.
   (D)   The Village Fire Chief shall give prior written notice of the hearing
to the permit holder. The hearing shall not be held until after five days from
mailing of the notice by certified mail.
(Ord. 29-81, passed 8-18-1981)
§ 92.17 RECREATIONAL FIRE PITS.
   The following restrictions are in addition to all restrictions imposed by
other levels of government and create no additional rights:
   (A)   Location, type.
      (1)   No recreational fire shall be within ten feet from any structure,
including but not limited to single-family houses, sheds, garages, fences, and
any other building or structure. No recreational fire shall be within 25 feet
from multiple residence buildings such as apartment buildings or houses divided
as duplexes or multiple unit homes.
      (2)   No recreational fire may lack a reliable water source capable of
being directly applied to the fire, or a commercially purchased fire
extinguisher must be available nearby.
      (3)   Recreational fires must be contained within a structure or device
designed to contain the fire and may be of a design purchased for residential
use. No recreational fire may be capable of being larger than three feet in
diameter, nor more than two feet high.
   (B)   Materials prohibited to be burned.
      (1)   No materials may be burned within the village that are not clean,
seasoned firewood or commercially purchased fireplace starter logs or the
equivalent.
      (2)   Examples of materials prohibited from being burned include but are
not limited to yard waste, tree trimmings, grass clippings, leaves, paper,
cardboard, garbage, food waste, food containers, rubber, grease, asphalt,
petroleum, plastics, plastic-coated wire, or dead animals.
   (C)   Other requirements.
      (1)   Fires must be attended at all times and must be completely
extinguished, and the ashes soaked with water, before being left unattended.
      (2)   Upon the complaint of any occupant of an adjoining or nearby
property of disturbance due to smoke or embers disturbing their quiet enjoyment
of their property, the fire must be immediately extinguished.
      (3)   If smoke obscures visibility of a roadway, the fire must be
immediately extinguished.
      (4)   If a fire appears out of control, the Fire Department should be
called to ensure the fire is contained; nothing in this section prevents the
Fire Department from taking any action they deem appropriate, including
extinguishing fires.
      (5)   All restrictions of fire imposed by any other government agency
apply. Nothing in this section creates an exception to other restrictions and
no rights are created by the restrictions of this section.
(Ord. 44-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
92.01 through
92.06 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree for the first offense and
a misdemeanor of the second degree for each subsequent offense. Prosecution
shall always be as for a first offense unless the affidavit upon which the
prosecution is instituted contains the allegation that the offense is a second
or repeated offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates §
92.15 shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor and be fined not more than $100.
(Ord. 29-81, passed 8-18-1981; Ord. 2010-71, passed 6-7-2010)
CHAPTER 93: ANIMALS
Section
Dangerous and Vicious Dogs
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Restraint required
   
93.03   Liability insurance
Barking and Other Animal Noise
   
93.10   Dogs creating a nuisance
 
   
93.99   Penalty
DANGEROUS AND VICIOUS DOGS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   A dog that, without provocation, and subject to division (2) of
this definition, has chased or approached in either a menacing fashion or an
apparent attitude of attack, or has attempted to bite or otherwise endanger any
person, while that dog is off the premises of its owner, keeper, or harborer
and not under the reasonable control of its owner, keeper, harborer, or some
other responsible person, or not physically restrained or confined in a locked
pen which has a top, locked fenced yard, or other locked enclosure which has a
top.
      (2)   DANGEROUS DOG does not include a police dog that has chased or
approached in either a menacing fashion or an apparent attitude of attack, or
has attempted to bite or otherwise endanger any person while the police dog is
being used to assist one or more law enforcement officers in the performance of
their official duties.
   MENACING FASHION. A dog would cause any person being chased or approached to
reasonably believe that the dog will cause physical injury to that person.
   POLICE DOG. A dog that has been trained, and may be used, to assist one or
more law enforcement officers in the performance of their official duties.
   VICIOUS DOG.
      (1)   A dog that, without provocation and subject to division (2) of this
definition, meets any of the following:
         (a)   Has killed or caused serious injury to any person;
         (b)   Has caused injury, other than killing or serious injury, to any
person, or has killed another dog; or
      (2)   VICIOUS DOG does not include either of the following:
         (a)   A police dog that has killed or caused serious injury to any
person or that has caused injury, other than killing or serious injury, to any
person while the police dog is being used to assist one or more law enforcement
officers in the performance of their official duties; or
         (b)   A dog that has killed or caused serious injury to any person
while a person was committing or attempting to commit a trespass or other
criminal offense on the property of the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog.
   WITHOUT PROVOCATION. A dog was not teased, tormented, or abused by a person,
or the dog was not coming to the aid or the defense of a person who was not
engaged in illegal or criminal activity and who was not using the dog as a
means of carrying out the activity.
(Ord. 31-2017, passed 6-20-2017)
Statutory reference:
   These definitions, see R.C. § 955.11(A)
§ 93.02 RESTRAINT REQUIRED.
   No owner, keeper, or harborer of a dangerous or vicious dog shall fail to do
either of the following:
   (A)   While that dog is on the premises of the owner, keeper, or harborer,
securely confine it at all times in a building, in a locked pen which has a
top, locked fenced yard, or other locked enclosure which has a top, except that
a dangerous dog may, in the alternative, be tied with a leash or tether so that
the dog is adequately restrained; or
   (B)   While that dog is off the premises of the owner, keeper, or harborer,
keep it on a chain-link leash or tether that is not more than six feet in
length and additionally do at least one of the following:
      (1)   Keep that dog in a locked pen which has a top, locked fenced yard,
or other locked enclosure which has a top;
      (2)   Have the leash or tether controlled by a person who is of suitable
age and discretion or securely attach, tie, or affix the leash or tether to the
ground or stationary object or fixture so that the dog is adequately
restrained, and station the person in close enough proximity to that dog so as
to prevent it from causing injury to any person; or
      (3)   Muzzle the dog.
(Ord. 47-87, passed 10-6-1987; Ord. 31-2017, passed 6-20-2017) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   No owner, keeper, or harborer of a vicious dog shall fail to obtain
liability insurance with an insurer authorized to write liability insurance in
this state providing coverage in each occurrence, subject to a limit, exclusive
of interest and costs, of not less than $50,000 because of damage or bodily
injury to or death of a person caused by the vicious dog.
(Ord. 31-2017, passed 6-20-2017) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see R.C. § 955.22(E)
BARKING AND OTHER ANIMAL NOISE
§ 93.10 DOGS CREATING A NUISANCE.
   (A)   No person shall keep or harbor any animal which howls, barks, or emits
audible sounds that are unreasonably loud or disturbing and which are of such
character, intensity and duration as to disturb the peace and quiet of the
neighborhood or to be detrimental to life and health of any individual.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of keeping noisy animals, a
minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation
of this section, then keeping noisy animals is a misdemeanor of the third
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of two or more violations
of this section, then keeping noisy animals is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
   (C)   Strict liability is intended to be imposed for a violation of this
section.
(Ord. 43-2018, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   If a violation of §
93.02 hereof involves a dangerous dog, whoever violates that section is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and of a misdemeanor
of the third degree on each subsequent offense. Additionally, the court may
order the offender to personally supervise the dangerous dog that he or she
owns, keeps, or harbors, to cause that dog to complete dog obedience training,
or to do both, and the court may order the offender to obtain liability
insurance pursuant to §
93.03. The court, in the alternative, may order the dangerous dog to be
humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the Dog Warden, or the humane
society.
      (2)   (a)   If a violation of §
93.02 hereof involves a vicious dog, whoever violates that section is guilty of
one of the following:
            1.   A misdemeanor of the first degree on a first offense; or
            2.   A misdemeanor of the first degree if the dog causes injury
other than killing or serious injury, to any person.
         (b)   Additionally, the court may order the vicious dog to be humanely
destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the Dog Warden, or the humane society.
      (3)   Whoever violates §
93.03 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(Ord. 31-2017, passed 6-20-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see R.C. § 955.99
CHAPTER 94: TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
Shade Tree Commission
   
94.01   Creation; members, Chair
   
94.02   Term of office
   
94.03   Compensation
   
94.04   Powers and duties
   
94.05   Permits required
   
94.06   Abuse and mutilation of public trees
   
94.07   Obstruction; trees pruned
   
94.08   Removal of trees by village
   
94.09   Definitions
   
94.10   Dead, diseased, dangerous trees declared a nuisance
 
   
94.99   Penalty
SHADE TREE COMMISSION
§ 94.01 CREATION; MEMBERS, CHAIR.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a Shade Tree Commission for
the village, which Commission shall be composed of the following seven citizens
and residents of the village: five of the members shall be appointed by the
Mayor with approval of the Council; the sixth member shall be a member of
Council appointed by the Mayor with the approval of Council; and the seventh
member shall be the Mayor.
   (B)   Prior to January 31 of each year the Commission shall meet and elect a
member to serve as Chairperson of the Commission. The Chairperson shall have
the authority to call and conduct meetings of the Commission, and to receive
all permit applications, correspondence, and other materials on behalf of the
Commission.
(Ord. 14-86, passed 4-1-1986; Ord. 14-08, passed 4-21-2008)
§ 94.02 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of the five persons of the Shade Tree Commission to be appointed by
the Mayor shall be for five years. In the event that a vacancy occurs during
the term of any member, his or her successor shall be appointed for the
unexpired portion of the term. The member from the Council and the Mayor shall
serve on the Commission during their continuance in their respective elective
offices.
(Ord. 14-86, passed 4-1-1986; Ord. 14-08, passed 4-21-2008)
§ 94.03 COMPENSATION.
   The members of the Commission shall serve without compensation or
remuneration but shall be entitled to reimbursement for any and all necessary
expenditures in carrying out the functions of the Commission.
(Ord. 14-86, passed 4-1-1986)
§ 94.04 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Commission shall have power to study, investigate, plan, advise,
report, and recommend to Council or the Mayor any action, program, plan, or
legislation which the Commission shall find or determine to be necessary or
advisable for the care, preservation, trimming, planting, replanting, removal,
or disposition of trees or shrubs, in public ways, streets, alleys, parks, or
other property owned by the village.
   (B)   The Shade Tree Commission shall have the authority and jurisdiction
for regulating and planting, maintenance, and removal of trees or shrubs on
streets and other village owned property to ensure safety or preserve the
aesthetics of these public sites, in accordance with the permit system
contained in the term of this subchapter, and in conformity with any ordinances
specifying plans and locations of plantings.
   (C)   The Shade Tree Commission shall have the authority to retain the
services of a professional tree arborist to act as an advisor to the
Commission. Any compensation paid to the advisor shall be subject to Council
approval.
(Ord. 14-86, passed 4-1-1986)
§ 94.05 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall hereafter plant or remove any tree or shrub upon any
public way, street, alley, parks, or other property owned by the village,
unless he or she shall have first obtained a permit in writing from the Shade
Tree Commission specifying the size, type, species, and location so to be
planted.
   (B)   The Shade Tree Commission shall have the authority to deny a permit to
any person who proposes to plant any tree or shrub upon a public way, street,
alley, park, or other property owned by the village of a size, type, or species
found by the Commission to be undesirable for the location proposed; or may
deny a permit to any person who proposes to plant any tree or shrub upon a
public way, street, alley, park, or other property owned by the village if at a
location found by the Commission to be of a size or type unsuitable for
planting of trees or shrubs.
   (C)   The Shade Tree Commission shall have the authority to deny a permit to
any person who proposes to remove any tree or shrub upon a public way, street,
alley, parks, or other property owned by the village, when the removal does not
benefit the preservation of public health, safety, and welfare.
   (D)   Every permit issued by the Commission shall be in writing and shall
describe the work to be done, specify the species or variety, size, nursery
grade, location, briefly specify the method of planting, method of support and
trimming of all trees or shrubs concerned, and contain a definite expiration
date. Any permit may be declared void if its terms are violated.
   (E)   The Shade Tree Commission shall meet and render a decision on any
permit application within 14 days of receipt of the application by the
Commission.
   (F)   Any person violating or failing to comply with any of the provisions
of this subchapter shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor and when convicted
shall be subject to a fine as set forth in §
94.99.
(Ord. 14-86, passed 4-1-1986) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 ABUSE AND MUTILATION OF PUBLIC TREES.
   Unless specifically authorized by the Shade Tree Commission, no person shall
recklessly damage, cut, carve, whether above or below ground, or transplant or
remove any tree or shrub; attach a rope, wire, nails, advertising posters or
other contrivance to any tree or shrub; allow any gaseous liquid or solid
substance which is harmful to the trees or shrubs, to come in contact with
them; or set fire or permit any fire to burn when the fire or the heat
therefrom will injure any portion of any tree or shrub.
(Ord. 14-86, passed 4-1-1986) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 OBSTRUCTION; TREES PRUNED.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of any person or persons owning or occupying real
property bordering on any street upon which property there may be trees, to
prune the trees in a manner that they will not obstruct or shade the street
lights, obstruct the passage of pedestrians on sidewalks, obstruct the vision
of traffic signs, or obstruct the view of any street or alley intersection.
   (B)   When a person to whom an order is directed shall fail to comply within
the specified time, it shall be lawful for the village to prune the trees, and
the exact cost thereof shall be assessed to the owner as provided by law in the
case of special assessments.
(Ord. 14-86, passed 4-1-1986)
§ 94.08 REMOVAL OF TREES BY VILLAGE.
   Trees planted upon a public way, curb strip, street, alley, or other village
property may be removed by the village as necessary to protect the public
health, safety, welfare, and aesthetics. The Shade Tree Commission may cause
the removal of any such tree by using village employees, Shade Tree Commission
members, or private contractors under contract with the village.
(Ord. 14-86, passed 4-1-1986)
§ 94.09 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following terms, phrases, words, and
their derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent
with the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in
the plural include the singular, and words in the singular include the plural.
The word “shall” is mandatory and not merely directory.
   LAWN STRIP or CURB STRIP. The part of a street or highway right-of-way
outside of the portion improved for travel, including the sidewalk.
   PARK. Includes all public parks.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization of any kind.
   PROPERTY LINE. The legal boundary line.
   PUBLIC LANDS, PUBLIC AREAS, or PUBLIC PROPERTY. All other grounds owned by
the village.
   PUBLIC TREES. Include all shade and ornamental trees, now or hereafter
growing on any street, including lawn strip or curb strip or on any other
public lands.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width of every public way or right-of-way when
any part thereof is open to the use of the public, as a matter of right, for
purposes of vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
   TREES. Include all trees, regardless of species and height, and all woody
shrubs, regardless of size or height.
   VILLAGE. The incorporated Village of Bellville.
(Ord. 14-86, passed 4-1-1986)
§ 94.10 DEAD, DISEASED, DANGEROUS TREES DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any property owner to maintain, or permit to
stand on that person's property, a dead, diseased, damaged or alive, tree,
shrub, evergreen or other plant which is a menace to the public peace, health
or safety.
   (B)   A plant may be declared to be in violation of this section by a
majority of the Shade Tree Commission under the following conditions:
      (1)   A person, who through training or experience, is an expert in trees
or is an arborist, provides a written explanation of the recommendation of a
finding of a violation of this section, along with a precise description of the
location of the tree.
      (2)   Prior to voting, the members of the Shade Tree Commission who vote
upon the measure personally go to the location to view the plant, without
entering upon the property of the landowner. If the person making the
recommendation is a member of the Shade Tree Commission, that person shall not
be entitled to vote upon the measure. Any tie on this issue shall be broken by
the Mayor.
      (3)   More than 15 days before the vote, the owner (as reflected on the
records of the County Auditor) of the property upon which the tree is located
is sent a letter, ordinary mail, that states "A tree on your property is being
considered for determination of being a nuisance under the Codified Ordinances
of the Village of Bellville. You may appear before the Shade Tree Commission on
[date, location, and time] to provide input prior to a vote on whether the tree
creates a nuisance. Enclosed is the written explanation of the recommendation
of a finding of a violation of Section 94.10 of the Codified Ordinances of the
Village of Bellville. You may bring any person, including your own arborist or
expert, to testify that the plant is not in violation of that section, but
cannot compel any person's presence." Enclosed with the letter shall be the
recommendation and explanation described in division (B)(1), above.
   (C)   Upon a majority vote to declare a tree in violation of this section,
the following steps shall be taken.
      (1)   The owner (as reflected on the records of the County Auditor) shall
be sent, by ordinary mail, a notification that states: "A plant on your
property located at [address] has been determined to be a nuisance by the Shade
Tree Commission of the Village of Bellville. You must remove or sufficiently
prune the plant to abate the nuisance within 120 days of the date of this
notice. You may appeal this finding within 30 days of the postmark on this
notice to the Council of the Village of Bellville by providing notice of your
intent to appeal to the Village of Bellville, 142 Park Place, Bellville, Ohio
44813. If you do not appeal and the nuisance is not abated within 120 days, the
Village may enter upon your property and take action to abate the nuisance by
removal or pruning of the plant; in that event, the actual costs of the removal
or pruning shall be entered as an assessment against the property with the
County Auditor."
      (2)   If the owner timely requests an appeal to Council, the matter will
be scheduled for the first Council meeting taking place at least seven days
after receipt of the request. The expert providing the opinion described above
shall be present at the meeting to explain the basis for the recommendation.
The landowner shall be given the opportunity to provide testimony and witnesses
prior to a vote. A majority of Council members present shall be sufficient to
determine the matter, with the Mayor deciding ties.
   (D)   If no successful appeal has been made, after the passage of the 120
day period described in division (C)(1) of this section, the Village
Administrator may cause the removal or pruning of the plant that has been
determined to be a nuisance, using any reasonable method, including contractors
or village employees. The decision of whether removal or pruning is the most
appropriate means of abating the nuisance, and the means of selection of
contractor(s) to perform the labor, shall be considered wholly discretionary in
the Administrator and shall not be the basis of any appeal; except that no
member of the Shade Tree Commission, nor any company with which any member is
affiliated, may be contracted to perform the abatement.
   (E)   Any costs incurred by the village in performing the abatement
described in division (D) of this section shall be invoiced, ordinary U.S.
mail, to the property owner (as reflected on the records of the County Auditor)
with a due date 60 days from the date of mailing. Unpaid expenses shall be
conveyed to the County Auditor as an assessment against the owner payable with
the taxes for the property.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall create a duty to act on the part of the
village or any of its officers, employees, or agents; this section is solely
permissive in nature. No cause of action shall accrue against the village, any
of its officers, employees, or agents, as a result of action or inaction under
this section.
(Ord. 1-2019, passed 1-8-2019)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating or failing to comply with any of the provisions
of §§
94.01 through
94.09 shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor and when convicted shall be
subject to a fine of not more than $100.
   (C)   Whoever violates §
94.06 is guilty of a minor misdemeanor, and is liable in treble damages for the
injury caused. If the property can be restored substantially to its former
condition, damages shall be the reasonable cost of restoring the property. If
the property cannot be restored substantially to its former condition, damages
shall be the cost of replacing the tree or shrub with new plantings of like
kind, quality, and if possible, size.
(Ord. 14-86, passed 4-1-1986)
CHAPTER 95: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Palm Park
   
95.01   Swimming in the lake prohibited
   
95.02   Catch and release required
 
   
95.99   Penalty
PALM PARK
§ 95.01 SWIMMING IN THE LAKE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall swim in the lake at Palm Park.
   (B)   Signs prohibiting swimming shall be posted at the lake in Palm Park.
(Ord. 15-83, passed 7-5-1983) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 CATCH AND RELEASE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Fishing in the lake shall be catch and release only.
   (B)   Signs providing notification of this section and potential penalty
shall be posted at the lake in Palm Park.
(Ord. 21-2020, passed 6-2-2020) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person in violation of §
95.01 shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor and be fined not more than $100.
(Ord. 15-83, passed 7-5-1983)
CHAPTER 96: CEMETERIES
Section
   
96.01   Terms of sale and deed
§ 96.01 TERMS OF SALE AND DEED.
   (A)   The terms of sale and any deed for cemetery lots in any cemetery
owned, funded, or operated by the village may include the following
requirements.
      (1)   The grantee shall provide to the Board having control of the
cemetery, in writing, a list of the names and addresses of the persons to whom
the grantee’s property would pass by intestate succession.
      (2)   The grantee shall notify the Board in writing of any subsequent
changes in the name or address of any persons to whom property would descend.
      (3)   Any person who receives a village cemetery lot by gift,
inheritance, or any other means other than the original conveyance shall,
within one year after receiving the interest, give written notice of the
person’s name and address to the Board having control of the cemetery, and
shall notify the Board of any subsequent changes in the person’s name or
address.
   (B)   The terms of sale and any deed for any lots executed in compliance
with the notification requirements set forth in divisions (A)(1), (A)(2), and
(A)(3) of this section shall state that the village shall have right of reentry
to the cemetery lot if the notification requirements are not met. At least 90
days before establishing reentry, the Board shall send a notice by certified
mail to the last known owner at the owner’s last known address to inform the
owner that the owner’s interest in the lot will cease unless the notification
requirements are met. If the owner’s address is unknown and cannot reasonably
be obtained, it is sufficient to publish the notice once in a newspaper of
general circulation in the county. In order to establish reentry, the Council
of the village shall pass a resolution stating that the conditions of the sale
or of the deed have not been fulfilled, and that the village reclaims its
interest in the lot.
   (C)   The Board may limit the terms of sale or the deed for a cemetery lot
by specifying that the owner, a member of the owner’s family, or an owner’s
descendant must use the lot, or at least one burial place within the lot,
within a specified time period. The Board may specify this time period to be at
least 20 but not more than 50 years, with right of renewal provided at no cost.
At least 90 days prior to the termination date for use of the cemetery lot, the
Board shall send a notice to the owner to inform the owner that the owner’s
interest in the lot will cease on the termination date unless the owner
contracts for renewal by that date. The board shall send the notice by
certified mail to the owner if the owner is a resident of the village or is a
nonresident whose address is known. If the owner’s address is unknown and
cannot reasonably be obtained, it is sufficient to publish the notice once in a
newspaper of general circulation in the county.
   (D)   The terms of sale and any deed for lots conveyed with a termination
date shall state that the village shall have right of reentry to the lot at the
end of the specified time period if the lot is not used within this time period
or renewed for an extended period. In order to establish reentry, the Council
of the village shall pass a resolution stating that the conditions of the sale
or of the deed have not been fulfilled, and that the village reclaims its
interest in the lot. The Board shall compensate owners of unused lots who do
not renew the terms of sale or the deed by paying the owner 80% of the purchase
price. The Board may repurchase any cemetery lot from its owner at any time at
a price that is mutually agreed upon by the Board and the owner.
(Ord. 2013-24, passed 9-3-2013)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSING
      
111.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
112.   CABLE SERVICE
      
113.   SALES FROM THE HOME
      
114.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
Licensing and Regulations of Structure Demolition
   
110.01   License and permit required
   
110.02   Application; fees
   
110.03   Bond
   
110.04   Insurance; additional bonds
   
110.05   Demolition permit
   
110.06   Notice and prosecution of work
   
110.07   Regulation of demolition and general contractors
   
110.08   Completion
   
110.09   Noncompletion
   
110.10   Permit compliance
   
110.11   Exceptions
   
110.12   Violations
 
   
110.99   Penalty
LICENSING AND REGULATIONS OF STRUCTURE DEMOLITION
§ 110.01 LICENSE AND PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, except a general contractor licensed by the Village
Administrator, nor any employee of the person, shall demolish or undertake to
demolish or represent himself or herself as having the capability of
demolishing any building or other structure or part thereof, unless he or she
has been licensed as a demolition contractor, and no person shall demolish or
undertake to demolish any building or other structure or part thereof, unless
he or she has secured, or caused to be secured, a permit for the demolition.
(Ord. 34-04, passed 5-17-2004) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 APPLICATION; FEES.
   Application for a demolition contractor’s license shall be made to the
Village Administrator. The fee upon original application for a demolition
contractor’s license shall be $25, which license shall be valid for a period of
one year from its date of issue. If the license is renewed prior to its
expiration, the renewal fee shall be $20.
(Ord. 34-04, passed 5-17-2004)
§ 110.03 BOND.
   At the time of making application for a demolition permit, a demolition
contractor applicant shall have on file with the Village Administrator a bond
in the penal sum of $2,000, approved as to form by the Village Solicitor,
indemnifying the village for all liability arising by reason of the acts of the
demolition contractor or his or her employees while in the pursuit of his or
her business under a demolition permit issued by the Village Administrator.
(Ord. 34-04, passed 5-17-2004)
§ 110.04 INSURANCE; ADDITIONAL BONDS.
   (A)   Prior to engaging in any demolition operations, a demolition
contractor shall have on file with the Village Administrator evidence that he
or she has current comprehensive liability insurance of not less than the
following limits:
      (1)   Bodily injury liability: each person, $300,000; each accident,
$500,000;
      (2)   Property damage liability: $500,000; and
      (3)   Automobile: each person, $300,000; each accident, $500,000.
   (B)   In case of a demolition contract awarded by the village under the
provisions of this chapter, the contractor shall also post satisfactory and
sufficient performance, work, labor, and materials bonds. As a condition of the
issuance of any permit for a specific demolition project, the village may
require a performance bond indemnifying the village for defects in performance
within one year after completion of the work covered by the permit.
(Ord. 34-04, passed 5-17-2004)
§ 110.05 DEMOLITION PERMIT.
   (A)   Application. Application by any person for a demolition permit shall
be filed with the Village Administrator. The application shall describe the
demolition to be accomplished and shall designate the manner, method, and
equipment to be used. Application shall be made by the owner or the contractor
employed to conduct the demolition, or the agent of either; unless made by the
owner, the applicant shall evidence his or her authority to make application by
means of a duly verified affidavit of the owner. The application shall indicate
the date upon which demolition is intended to begin and the probable date of
completion thereof.
   (B)   Issuance of permit. Prior to issuance of the permit the Village
Administrator shall determine that the proposed method of demolition is in
accordance with good engineering practices and that the contractor or owner has
the necessary and proper means and equipment to accomplish the demolition in
accordance with the manner, method, and equipment specified in the application.
   (C)   Fees. The fees for a demolition permit shall be at the rate of $20 per
structure for a four-day period. Beyond the four-day period there shall be an
additional charge of $10 for each day until the final inspection certificate
can be issued.
(Ord. 34-04, passed 5-17-2004)
§ 110.06 NOTICE AND PROSECUTION OF WORK.
   The contractor or owner shall give the Village Administrator 24-hours’
notice before commencing demolition work under any permit. He or she shall
carry out the work in an orderly manner and without unnecessary delay.
(Ord. 34-04, passed 5-17-2004)
§ 110.07 REGULATION OF DEMOLITION AND GENERAL CONTRACTORS.
   In undertaking any work of demolition as defined in this chapter any general
or demolition contractor during his or her entire employment under a contract,
whether public or private, shall be responsible and liable for:
   (A)   Faithful compliance and adherence to all federal, state, and local
laws and regulations relating to safe demolition and construction processes and
procedures including equipment, apparel, and individual protective device
regulations;
   (B)   Securing all necessary licenses, permits, easements, and rights-of-
way;
   (C)   Early and adequate notice to the village and utility companies for
appropriate disconnections and the safeguarding thereof;
   (D)   Early and adequate notice to adjoining property owners;
   (E)   The protection and safeguarding of adjacent property and public
passers-by;
   (F)   Damages resulting from the extension of explosion waves into adjacent
property;
   (G)   Minimization of air pollution and contamination through wetting,
soaking, and other dust and debris settling techniques;
   (H)   Installation, erection, and maintenance of barricades, warning lights,
and signals, pedestrian cautions and walkways in accordance with safety codes,
regulations, and ordinances. When necessary for the public protection, the
contractor shall employ guards and watchmen;
   (I)   Unless the contract or orders of the village provide otherwise, total
removal of the structure to the actual building and property line;
   (J)   Provision of proper drainage in the subsoil conditions. Percolation
shall be provided in basement slabs by breaking or by drilling holes through
the slabs, approximately six feet on center in all directions and connecting
drain tile into existing storms where necessary for proper drainage. All floor
slabs, under which a pit, well, cistern, tank, or void exists, shall be broken
or removed. All drains not removed shall be sealed with masonry or with precast
clay or concrete stoppers;
   (K)   Complete removal from the demolition site of all organic materials,
including wood, plastics, old plaster, floor tile, and similar rubble. Masonry,
stove concrete, the bank-run gravel, and compacted earth are permitted fill
materials;
   (L)   Adjoining and party walls, as follows.
      (1)   If one of two back-to-back or adjoining walls, each of which is
built along a common property line of two different ownerships, is required by
order to be demolished with the rest of the structure, the contractor shall be
responsible for the adjacent or adjoining property wall for repair or defects
occasioned by the contractor, to the extent that the same shall be repaired or
reconditioned as needed with suitable construction materials and procedures to
ensure that the remaining wall is as free from defects, and safety, fire, and
health hazards, as it would have been had the wall not been demolished.
      (2)   Where the back-to-back or adjoining wall of the structure to be
demolished is not required to be demolished, the contractor shall ensure that
the wall does not create or constitute a health, fire, or safety hazard. When
the wall exposes a variety of materials such as brick, stone, plaster, or
block, a cement or latex paint specifically prepared for masonry walls shall be
applied to the exposed surface; provided that other means may be utilized when
prior approval of the means has been granted by the Village Administrator.
      (3)   The contractor shall ensure that party walls are structurally sound
and do not create or constitute a health, fire, or safety hazard. When the
party wall exposes a variety of materials such as brick, stone, plaster, or
block, a cement or latex paint specifically prepared for masonry walls shall be
applied to the exposed surface; provided that other means may be utilized when
prior approval of the means has been granted by the Village Administrator.
   (M)   Ensuring that any remaining walls, whether adjoining, party or back-
to-back, have all openings, crevices, gaps, fissures, joist slots, and the like
plugged and carefully tamped or sealed with some suitable material against the
weather, elements, fowl, rodents, and other wildlife, so as to render them free
of health, safety, and fire hazards;
   (N)   Maintaining established property lines and grades at the original
lines and grades. Backfill when necessary shall include structures suitable to
retain the original grades. Where vertical walls have been removed from stone
retaining walls, these retaining walls may be retained if suitable backfill is
provided to furnish sufficient side load to retain the original support of the
property. The premises shall be graded to prevent water from unnecessarily
draining onto adjacent premises;
   (O)   Construction of damaged or destroyed curbs, gutters, and sidewalks
with new four-inch concrete improvements in accordance with village
specifications;
   (P)   Filing with the Village Administrator a sketch plan of any
foundations, walls, or other pertinent data relating to the site which have
been buried by backfill;
   (Q)   Continuity of service to adjacent property by the replacement or
repair of overhangs, cornices, downspouts, and the like, which overhang from
adjacent property and which have been removed or damaged by the contractor; and
   (R)   The replacement and repair of damaged or destroyed curb boxes and
utility entrance service.
(Ord. 34-04, passed 5-17-2004)
§ 110.08 COMPLETION.
   Demolition of any building or structure under any permit shall not be
considered completed until:
   (A)   The contractor or resident-owner has removed all lumber, rubble, and
other building or structural materials and debris and all demolition equipment
from the graded premises, or, at the owner’s request, has piled it neatly upon
the premises, in such a manner as not to constitute a public nuisance, hazard,
or possible rodent harborage;
   (B)   The contractor or resident-owner has broken and removed all
foundations or slabs to not less than two feet below the ground surface, and
has filled all basements, trenches, or other depressions with not less than two
feet of compacted earth, or as otherwise provided herein, graded neatly to the
existing established grade level, unless a building permit has been issued for
a structure which will make use of the foundation or slab remaining after
demolition; and
   (C)   The Village Administrator has issued to the contractor or resident-
owner a certificate of final inspection, which certificate shall issue when the
provisions of this chapter have been satisfied.
(Ord. 34-04, passed 5-17-2004)
§ 110.09 NONCOMPLETION.
   No person shall fail to comply with the provisions of §
110.08(A) and (B) within three days after a structure or building has been
demolished.
(Ord. 34-04, passed 5-17-2004) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.10 PERMIT COMPLIANCE.
   No person shall demolish a building or structure other than in accordance
with the method of demolition set forth in an approved application for
demolition permit.
(Ord. 34-04, passed 5-17-2004) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.11 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter which require the holding of a demolition
contractor’s license, the filing of bonds, and evidence of liability insurance
coverage shall not be applicable to the owner of any parcel of land desiring to
demolish any building or structure which is situated upon the parcel of land
being occupied as the residence of the owner, and when the demolition is to be
executed personally by the owner; and the permit fees established in §
110.05(C) shall be reduced 50% for the resident-owner applicant. The resident-
owner shall otherwise comply with all of the requirements of this chapter as
though he or she were a duly licensed general or demolition contractor.
(Ord. 34-04, passed 5-17-2004)
§ 110.12 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   No person or firm shall violate any section of this chapter, or any
order made in pursuance thereof, or obstruct or interfere with the execution
thereof, or willfully or illegally omit or fail to obey the order.
   (B)   No officer of a corporation who has authority over the matter involved
in the violation of division (A) hereof shall permit the violation of that
division.
(Ord. 34-04, passed 5-17-2004) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Each day of any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be punishable as a separate offense.
   (C)   In addition to any other penalties provided for violations of the
provisions of this chapter, the Village Administrator shall have the right to
revoke any contractor’s license or any license or permit issued under this
chapter. Appeal may be had to Village Council in accordance with R.C. Chapter
2506.
   (D)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(Ord. 34-04, passed 5-17-2004)
CHAPTER 111: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Purpose and intent
   
111.02   Case law references for both subchapters
   
111.03   Definitions for both subchapters
Regulations Governing Sexually Oriented Businesses and Employees
   
111.15   Definitions specific to topic
   
111.16   Findings
   
111.17   License required
   
111.18   Application for license
   
111.19   Issuance of a license
   
111.20   Employee license application
   
111.21   Issuance of sexually oriented business employee license
   
111.22   Expiration and renewal of license
   
111.23   Suspension
   
111.24   Revocation
   
111.25   Appeal rights
   
111.26   Transfer of license
   
111.27   Additional regulations concerning the operation of a sexually oriented
business
Criminal Conduct in Sexually Oriented Businesses
   
111.40   Findings
   
111.41   Unlawful activities
   
111.42   Scienter required to prove violation or business liability
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   In enacting this chapter, pursuant to R.C. § 715.55, the Village
Council, hereinafter “Council,” makes the following statement of intent and
findings.
      (1)   Adult entertainment establishments require special supervision from
the public safety agencies of the village in order to protect and preserve the
health, safety, morals, and welfare of the patrons and employees of the
businesses as well as the citizens of the village.
      (2)   Council finds that adult entertainment establishments are
frequently used for unlawful sexual activities, including prostitution and
sexual liaisons of a casual nature.
      (3)   The concern over sexually transmitted diseases is a legitimate
health concern of Council that demands reasonable regulation of adult
entertainment establishments by Council in the specified manner, and expanded
authority for reasonable regulation of adult entertainment establishments by
local governments, in order to protect the health and wellbeing of the
citizens.
      (4)   Minimal regulations enacted by Council are a legitimate and
reasonable means of accountability to ensure that operators of adult
entertainment establishments comply with reasonable regulations and to ensure
that operators do not knowingly allow their establishments to be used as places
of illegal sexual activity or solicitation.
      (5)   There is convincing documented evidence that adult entertainment
establishments, because of their very nature, have a deleterious effect on both
the existing businesses around them and the surrounding residential areas
adjacent to them, cause increased crime, particularly in the overnight hours,
and downgrade property values.
      (6)   Council desires to minimize and control these adverse effects by
regulating adult entertainment establishments in the specified manner. By
minimizing and controlling these adverse effects, Council seeks to protect the
health, safety, and welfare of the citizenry; protect the citizens from
increased crime; preserve the quality of life; preserve the property values and
character of surrounding neighborhoods; and deter the spread of urban blight.
      (7)   Council has determined that current local zoning and other
locational criteria do not adequately protect the health, safety, and general
welfare of the people of the village and that expanded regulation of adult
entertainment establishments is necessary.
      (8)   It is not the intent of Council in enacting this chapter to
suppress or authorize the suppression of any speech activities protected by the
First Amendment, but to enact content-neutral statutes that address the
secondary effects of adult entertainment establishments.
      (9)   It is not the intent of Council to condone or legitimize the
distribution of obscene material, and Council recognizes that state and federal
law prohibits the distribution of obscene materials and expects and encourages
state law enforcement officials to enforce state obscenity statutes against any
such illegal activities in this state.
   (B)   It is the intent of Council in enacting this chapter to regulate in
the specified manner adult entertainment establishments in order to promote the
health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the citizens of the village and
establish reasonable regulations to prevent the deleterious secondary effects
of adult entertainment establishments within the village. The provisions of
this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or
restriction on the content of any communicative materials, including sexually
oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the intent of Council in enacting this
chapter to restrict or deny, or authorize the restriction or denial of, access
by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or
to deny, or authorize the denial of, access by the distributors and exhibitors
of adult entertainment and adult materials to their intended market. Neither is
it the intent nor effect of Council in enacting this chapter to condone or
legitimize the distribution or exhibition of obscene material.
(Ord. 60-2010, passed 3-15-2010; Ord. 61-2010, passed 3-15-2010)
§ 111.02 CASE LAW REFERENCES FOR BOTH SUBCHAPTERS.
   Based on evidence concerning the adverse secondary effects of adult uses on
communities presented in hearings and in reports made available to the
legislature and subsequently adopted by the Ohio General Assembly as findings
under Section 3 of House Bill 23 (and on findings incorporated in the cases of
Township of Littleton, Colorado v. Z.J. Gifts D-4, L.L.C. (2004), 541 U.S. 774;
Township of Erie v. Pap’s A.M. (2000), 529 U.S. 277; Barnes v. Glen Theatre,
Inc. (1991), 501 U.S. 560; Township of Renton v. Playtime Theatres, Inc.
(1986), 475 U.S. 41; Young v. American Mini Theatres (1976), 426 U.S. 50;
California v. LaRue (1972), 409 U.S. 109; DLS, Inc. v. Township of Chattanooga
(6th Cir. 1997), 107 F.3d 403; East Brooks Books, Inc. v. Township of Memphis
(6th Cir. 1995), 48 F.3d 220; Harris v. Fitchville Township Trustees (N.D. Ohio
2000), 99 F. Supp.2d 837; Bamon Corp. v. Township of Dayton (S.D. Ohio 1990),
730 F. Supp. 90, aff’d (6th Cir. 1991), 923 F.2d 470; Broadway Books v. Roberts
(E.D. Tenn. 1986), 642 F. Supp. 486; Bright Lights, Inc. v. Township of Newport
(E.D. Ky. 1993), 830 F. Supp. 378; Richland Bookmart v. Nichols (6th Cir.
1998), 137 F.3d 435; Deja Vu v. Metro Government (6th Cir. 1999), 1999 U.S.
App. LEXIS 535; Threesome Entertainment v. Strittmather (N.D. Ohio 1998), 4
F.Supp.2d 710; J.L. Spoons, Inc. v. Township of Brunswick (N.D. Ohio 1999), 49
F. Supp.2d 1032; Triplett Grille, Inc. v. Township of Akron (6th Cir. 1994), 40
F.3d 129; Nightclubs, Inc. v. Township of Paducah (6th Cir. 2000), 202 F.3d
884; O’Connor v. Township and County of Denver (10th Cir. 1990), 894 F.2d 1210;
Deja Vu of Nashville, Inc., et al. v. Metropolitan Government of Nashville and
Davidson County (6th Cir. 2001), 2001 U.S. App. LEXIS 26007; State of Ohio ex
rel. Rothal v. Smith (Ohio C.P. 2002), Summit C.P. No. CV 01094594; Z.J. Gifts
D-2, L.L.C. v. Township of Aurora (10th Cir. 1998), 136 F.3d 683; Connection
Distrib. Co. v. Reno (6th Cir. 1998), 154 F.3d 281; Sundance Assocs. v. Reno
(10th Cir. 1998), 139 F.3d 804; American Library Association v. Reno (D.C. Cir.
1994), 33 F.3d 78; American Target Advertising, Inc. v. Giani (10th Cir. 2000),
199 F.3d 1241; and other cases and on reports of secondary effects occurring in
and around adult entertainment establishments in Phoenix, Arizona (1984);
Minneapolis, Minnesota (1980); Houston, Texas (1983); Indianapolis, Indiana
(1984); Amarillo, Texas (1977); Garden Grove, California (1991); Los Angeles,
California (1977); Whittier, California (1978); Austin, Texas (1986); Seattle,
Washington (1989); Oklahoma Township, Oklahoma (1986); Cleveland, Ohio (1977);
Dallas, Texas (1997); St. Croix County, Wisconsin (1993); Bellevue, Washington
(1998); Newport News, Virginia (1996); Tucson, Arizona (1990); St. Paul,
Minnesota (1988); Oklahoma Township, Oklahoma (1986 and 1992); Beaumont, Texas
(1982); New York, New York (1994); Ellicottville, New York (1998); Des Moines,
Iowa (1984); Islip, New York (1980); Adams County, Colorado (1987); Manatee
County, Florida (1987); New Hanover County, North Carolina (1989); Las Vegas,
Nevada (1978); Cattaraugas County, New York (1998); Cleburne, Texas (1997);
Dallas, Texas (1997); El Paso, Texas (1986); New York Times Square study
(1994); Report to ACLJ on the Secondary Impacts of Sex Oriented Businesses
(1996); findings from the Report of the Attorney General’s Working Group on the
Regulation of Sexually Oriented Businesses (June 6, 1989, State of Minnesota);
and on testimony to Congress in 136 Cong. Rec. S. 8987; 135 Cong. Rec. S.
14519; 135 Cong. Rec. S. 5636, 134 Cong. Rec. E. 3750; and also on findings
from the paper entitled “Stripclubs According to Strippers: Exposing Workplace
Sexual Violence,” by Kelly Holsopple, Program Director, Freedom and Justice
Center for Prostitution Resources, Minneapolis, Minnesota; and from “Sexually
Oriented Businesses: An Insider’s View,” by David Sherman, presented to the
Michigan House Committee on Ethics and Constitutional Law, January 12, 2000;
and from various other police reports, testimony, newspaper reports, and other
documentary evidence), and subsequent findings in Sensations, Inc. v. City of
Grand Rapids, Michigan Decency Action Council (6th Cir. 2008), 526 F.3d 291;
729, Inc. v. Kenton County Fiscal Court (6th Cir. 2008), 515 F.3d 485; and
Andy’s Rest. & Lounge, Inc. v. City of Gary (7th Cir. 2006), 466 F.3d 550, and
Council’s independent review of the same), Council finds as set forth in §§
111.16 and
111.40.
(Ord. 60-2010, passed 3-15-2010; Ord. 61-2010, passed 3-15-2010)
§ 111.03 DEFINITIONS FOR BOTH SUBCHAPTERS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ARCADE, ADULT ENTERTAINMENT, ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT, ADULT
NOVELTY STORE, ADULT THEATER, DISTINGUISHED OR CHARACTERIZED BY THEIR EMPHASIS
UPON, NUDE OR SEMINUDE MODEL STUDIO, REGULARLY FEATURES, REGULARLY SHOWN, and
SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT. Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2907.39.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT CABARET, ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER, ADULT VIDEO
STORE, CHARACTERIZED BY, NUDE, NUDITY, STATE OF NUDITY, SEMINUDE, STATE OF
SEMINUDITY, SEXUAL DEVICE, SEXUAL DEVICE SHOP, SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER,
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS, and SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Have the same
meanings as in R.C. § 2907.40.
   EMPLOYEE. Any individual on a full-time, part-time, or contract basis,
regardless of whether the individual is denominated an EMPLOYEE, independent
contractor, agent, or otherwise, but does not include an individual exclusively
on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or for the delivery
of goods to the premises.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A person’s spouse residing in the person’s household,
parents, siblings of the whole or of the half blood, and children, including
adopted children.
   LICENSE. A license to act or operate a sexually oriented business, issued
pursuant to this chapter.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license to operate has been issued, as
well as the individual(s) designated on the license application as principally
responsible for the operation of the sexually oriented business. With respect
to an employee license issued under this chapter, LICENSEE means an employee as
defined above in whose name a license has been issued authorizing employment at
a sexually oriented business.
   OPERATE.  To control or hold primary responsibility for the operation of a
sexually oriented business, either as a business entity, as an individual, or
as part of a group of individuals with shared responsibility. OPERATE or CAUSE
TO BE OPERATED shall mean to cause to function or to put or keep in operation.
   OPERATOR. Any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented business who
causes the business to function or who puts or keeps in operation the business
or who is authorized to manage the business or exercise overall operational
control of the business premises. A person may be found to be operating or
causing to be operated a sexually oriented business whether or not that person
is an owner, part owner, or licensee of the business.
   PATRON.  Any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented business,
except for any of the following:
      (1)   An operator or an employee of the sexually oriented business;
      (2)   An individual who is on the premises exclusively for repair or
maintenance of the premises or for the delivery of goods to the premises; or
      (3)   A public employee or a volunteer firefighter emergency medical
services worker acting within the scope of the public employee’s or volunteer’s
duties as a public employee or volunteer’s duties as a public employee or
volunteer.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, firm, association, joint
stock company, corporation, or combination of individuals of whatever form or
character.
   PREMISES. The real property on which the sexually oriented business is
located and all appurtenances to the real property, including but not limited
to the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways, and parking
lots or parking garages adjacent to the real property under the ownership,
control, or supervision of the owner or operator of the sexually oriented
business.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult cabaret,
adult entertainment establishment, adult motion picture theater, adult novelty
store, adult theater, adult video store, sexual device shop, sexual encounter
center, and sexual encounter establishment as defined above, but does not
include a business solely by reason of its showing, selling, or renting
materials that may depict sex.
(Ord. 60-2010, passed 3-15-2010; Ord. 61-2010, passed 3-15-2010)
REGULATIONS GOVERNING SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES AND EMPLOYEES
§ 111.15 DEFINITIONS SPECIFIC TO TOPIC.
   In addition to the definitions included in §
111.03, for the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY.  
      (1)   Any of the following offenses: prostitution or promoting
prostitution; soliciting; loitering to engage in solicitation; sexual
performance by a child; public lewdness; indecent exposure; indecency with a
child; sexual assault; molestation of a child; or any similar offenses to those
described above under the criminal or penal code of any local jurisdiction,
state, or country; for which:
         (a)   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is
the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense; or
         (b)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the
later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense.
      (2)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall not prevent the
conviction from constituting a SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY as defined in this
section.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Any of the
following:
      (1)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
(Ord. 61-2010, passed 3-15-2010)
§ 111.16 FINDINGS.
   Based on the evidence and reports cited in §
111.02, Council finds:
   (A)   Adult entertainment establishments lend themselves to ancillary
unlawful and unhealthy activities that are presently uncontrolled by the
operators of the establishments;
   (B)   Certain employees of adult entertainment establishments, as defined in
this chapter as adult theaters and cabarets, engage in a higher incidence of
certain types of illicit sexual behavior than employees of other
establishments;
   (C)   Sexual acts, including masturbation and oral and anal sex, occur at
adult entertainment establishments, especially those that provide private or
semiprivate booths or cubicles for viewing films, videos, or live sex shows.
The “couch dances” or “lap dances” that frequently occur in adult entertainment
establishments featuring live nude or seminude dancers constitute or may
constitute the offense of “engaging in prostitution” under R.C. § 2907.25;
   (D)   Offering and providing private or semiprivate booths or cubicles
encourages those activities, which creates unhealthy conditions;
   (E)   Persons frequent certain adult theaters, adult arcades, and other
adult entertainment establishments for the purpose of engaging in sexual
activity within the premises of those adult entertainment establishments;
   (F)   Numerous communicable diseases may be spread by activities occurring
in sexually oriented businesses, including but not limited to syphilis,
gonorrhea, human immunodeficiency virus infection (HIV-AIDS), genital herpes,
hepatitis salmonella, campylobacter and shigella infections, chlamydial,
myoplasmal and ureoplasmal infections, trichomoniasis, and chancroid;
   (G)   Since 1981 and to the present, there has been an increasing cumulative
number of reported cases of AIDS caused by the human immunodeficiency virus
(HIV) in the United States: 600 in 1982, 2,200 in 1983, 4,600 in 1984, 8,555 in
1985, and 253,448 through December 31, 1992;
   (H)   A total of 10,255 AIDS cases had been reported in this state as of
January 1999. Ohio has required HIV case reporting since 1990, and the reported
information shows 7,969 people living with (HIV) (4,213) and (AIDS) (3,756) in
the state;
   (I)   Since 1981 and to the present, there have been an increasing
cumulative number of persons testing positive for the HIV antibody test in this
state;
   (J)   The number of cases of early (less than one year) syphilis in the
Unites States reported annually has risen. 33,613 cases were reported in 1982,
and 45,200 cases were reported through November 1990;
   (K)   The number of cases of gonorrhea in the United States reported
annually remains at a high level, with over one-half million cases being
reported in 1990;
   (L)   The Surgeon General of the United States in his report of October 22,
1986, has advised the American public that AIDS and HIV infection may be
transmitted through sexual contact, intravenous drug abuse, and exposure to
infected blood and blood components, and from an infected mother to her
newborn;
   (M)   According to the best scientific evidence, AIDS and HIV infection, as
well as syphilis and gonorrhea, are principally transmitted by sexual acts;
   (N)   Sanitary conditions in some adult entertainment establishments are
unhealthy, in part, because the activities conducted there are unhealthy, and,
in part, because of the unregulated nature of the activities and the failure of
the owners and the operators of the facilities to self-regulate those
activities and maintain those facilities;
   (O)   The findings noted in divisions (A) to (N) of this section raise
substantial governmental concerns;
   (P)   Adult entertainment establishments have operational characteristics
that require or mandate subjecting them to reasonable government regulation in
order to protect those substantial governmental concerns; and
   (Q)   The enactment of this chapter will promote the general welfare,
health, morals, and safety of the citizens of this village.
(Ord. 61-2010, passed 3-15-2010)
Cross-reference:
   Case law background for this section, see §
111.02
§ 111.17 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Operate a sexually oriented business as defined in §
111.03 without a valid sexually oriented business license issued by the village
pursuant to this chapter; or
      (2)   In connection with operating a sexually oriented business, retain
the services of a person as an employee, as defined in this chapter, who is not
licensed as a sexually oriented business employee by the village pursuant to
this chapter.
   (B)   Any person who violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) above shall be
subject to the provisions of §
111.99.
   (C)   No person shall act as an employee, as defined in this chapter, on the
premises of a sexually oriented business without having secured a sexually
oriented business employee license (“employee license”) pursuant to this
chapter.
   (D)   A violation of this section shall be a ground for the suspension of a
sexually oriented business employee license as provided for in §
111.23.
(Ord. 61-2010, passed 3-15-2010) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.18 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   An original or renewal application for a sexually oriented business
license shall be submitted to Council or its designee on a form provided by
Council. Council’s application may require and the applicant shall provide
information as reasonably necessary (including fingerprints) to enable Council
or its designee to determine whether the applicant meets the qualifications
established in this chapter.
   (B)   A filing fee of $100 shall be paid at the time of filing the
application.
   (C)   An application for a sexually oriented business license shall identify
and be signed by the following persons:
      (1)   If the business entity is owned by an individual, that individual;
      (2)   If the business entity is owned by a corporation, each officer or
director of the corporation, any individual owning or controlling more than 50%
of the voting shares of the corporation, and any person with an ownership
interest in the corporation who will be principally responsible for the
operation of the proposed sexually oriented business; or
      (3)   If the business entity is owned by a partnership (general or
limited), a joint venture, or any other type of organization where two or more
persons share in the profits and liabilities of the organization, each partner
(other than limited partners); and any other person entitled to share in the
profits of the organization, whether or not the person is also obligated to
share in the liabilities of the organization, who will be principally
responsible for the operation of the proposed sexually oriented business.
   (D)   An application for a sexually oriented business license must designate
one or more individuals who are to be principally responsible for the operation
of the proposed sexually oriented business, if a license is granted. At least
one person so designated must be involved in the day-to-day operation of the
proposed sexually oriented business on a regular basis. Each person so
designated, as well as the business entity itself, shall be considered a
license applicant, must qualify as a licensee under this chapter, and shall be
considered a licensee if a license is granted.
   (E)   An application for a sexually oriented business license shall be
completed according to the instructions on the application form, which shall
require the following:
      (1)   If the applicant is:
         (a)   An individual, state the legal name and any aliases of the
individual;
         (b)   A partnership, state the complete name of the partnership and
all of its partners and whether the partnership is general or limited, and
provide a copy of the partnership agreement, if any;
         (c)   A joint venture, or any other type of organization where two or
more persons share in the profits and liabilities of the organization, state
the complete name of the organization and provide a copy of the legal document
establishing the organization, if any; or
         (d)   A corporation, state the complete name of the corporation and
the date of its incorporation, provide evidence that the corporation is in good
standing under the laws of its state of incorporation, and state the names and
capacities of all officers and directors, the name of the registered corporate
agent, and the address of the registered office for service of process.
      (2)   If the applicant intends to operate the sexually oriented business
under a name other than that of the applicant, state the fictitious name to be
used and submit copies of documentation evidencing the registration of the
business name under applicable laws;
      (3)   State whether any applicant has been convicted of a specified
criminal activity as defined in this chapter, and if so, the specified criminal
activity involved and the date, place, and jurisdiction of each conviction;
      (4)   State whether any applicant has had a previous license under this
chapter or other similar regulation of another jurisdiction denied, suspended,
or revoked, including the name and location of the sexually oriented business
for which the permit was denied, suspended, or revoked, as well as the date of
the denial, suspension, or revocation; and state whether the applicant has been
a partner in a partnership or an officer, or 50% or greater owner of a
corporation licensed under this chapter whose license has previously been
denied, suspended, or revoked, including the name and location of the business
for which the permit was denied, suspended, or revoked as well as the date of
denial, suspension, or revocation;
      (5)   State whether any applicant holds any other licenses under this
chapter or other similar regulation from this or another jurisdiction and, if
so, the names and locations of other licensed businesses;
      (6)   State the location of the proposed sexually oriented business,
including a legal description of the property (i.e., permanent parcel number),
street address, and telephone number(s), if any;
      (7)   State the mailing address and residential address of each applicant
and each person signing the application;
      (8)   Submit the fingerprints of each applicant who is a natural person,
recorded by the County Sheriff’s office;
      (9)   For any applicant who is a natural person, describe and identify
the location of any tattoos on the person’s face, arms, legs, or hands, or any
other anatomical area that normally would be visible when the person is on the
premises of the proposed sexually oriented business;
      (10)   State the driver’s license number and social security number of
each applicant who is a natural person and each person signing the application,
or, for an applicant that is not a natural person, the applicant’s federally
issued tax identification number;
      (11)   Submit proof that each applicant who is a natural person is at
least 18 years old; and
      (12)   Submit a sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the
premises of the sexually oriented business. The diagram shall also designate
the place at which the adult business license will be conspicuously posted, if
granted. The sketch or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must
be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior
of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches.
   (F)   The above-required disclosures facilitate the police investigation
into the applicant’s criminal background regarding crimes of a sexual nature so
that Council can determine whether the ordinance’s civil disabilities
provisions apply. These provisions exist to combat the sex crimes connected
with sexually oriented establishments by temporarily prohibiting those recently
convicted of such crimes from employment with those establishments. In
addition, the required disclosures ensure continuing compliance with the
chapter’s licensing and permitting requirements; and
   (G)   The information gathered pursuant to the above provisions constitute
protected private information and are exempt from Ohio’s Public Records Act,
being R.C. §§ 149.43 et seq., in accordance with the decision of the Sixth
Circuit Court of Appeals in Deja Vu of Cincinnati v. Union Township (6th Cir.
2005), 411 F.3d 777.
   (H)   Upon issuance of the license, an employee shall furnish a photograph
of himself or herself that clearly shows the applicant’s face.
(Ord. 61-2010, passed 3-15-2010)
§ 111.19 ISSUANCE OF A LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for a sexually oriented business
license, Council or its designee shall promptly request that the County
Sheriff’s Department review the information provided in the application
concerning the criminal background of the applicant(s) and that the County
Sheriff’s Department shall transmit the results of its investigation in writing
to Council or its designee within five days of the completion of its
investigation.
   (B)   Within five days of receipt of an application for a sexually oriented
business, Council or its designee shall notify the Jefferson or Washington
Township Fire Chief and the County Health Commissioner of the application. In
making the notification, Council or its designee shall request that the Fire
Chief and Health Commissioner promptly inspect the premises for which the
sexually oriented business license is sought to assess compliance with the
regulations under their respective jurisdictions.
   (C)   The Fire Chief shall provide to Council or its designee a written
certification of whether the premises are in compliance with the village fire
regulations within ten days of receipt of notice of the application.
   (D)   Council or its designee shall commence the inspection of the premises
for which a sexually oriented business license is sought promptly upon receipt
of the application, and shall complete, within ten days after receipt of the
application, a written certification of whether the premises are in compliance
with the village zoning ordinance, the Village Property Maintenance Code, and
the provisions of this chapter related to physical characteristics of the
premises, and whether Council has received notice from any state or county
agency of the premises being in violation of any applicable state building or
property codes.
   (E)   Within 21 days after receipt of a completed sexually oriented business
license application, Council or its designee shall approve or deny the issuance
of a license. Council or its designee shall approve the issuance of a license
to an applicant unless he or she determines that one or more of the following
findings is true.
      (1)   An applicant who is a natural person is under 18 years of age;
      (2)   An applicant has failed to provide all information and documents
required for issuance of the license as requested on the application form, or
has provided information or documents as requested on the application that are
insufficient on their face; provided, however, that no license shall be denied
solely on the ground that an applicant has refused to disclose his or her
social security number in accordance with the provisions of the Privacy Act of
1974, being 5 U.S.C. §§ 552a et seq., Pub. L. No. 93-579, § 7(a)(1);
      (3)   An applicant has, within the preceding 12 months, been denied a
sexually oriented business license by any jurisdiction or has had a license to
operate a sexually oriented business revoked by any jurisdiction;
      (4)   An applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal activity as
defined in this chapter;
      (5)   The proposed sexually oriented business would violate or fail to be
in compliance with any provisions of this chapter, the village zoning
ordinance, the Village Property Maintenance Code, or state statute or
regulation;
      (6)   The application and investigation fee required by this chapter has
not been paid; or
      (7)   An applicant is in violation of or not in compliance with any
provision of this chapter, except as provided in division (F) of this section.
   (F)   If Council or its designee determines that one or both of the
following findings is true, the license issued pursuant to this section shall
contain a requirement that the licensee correct all deficiencies specified
within 120 days of the date the license is issued:
      (1)   The results of inspections of the premises by the Fire Chief or his
or her designee or the Health Commissioner or its designee indicate that the
premises are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations under their
respective jurisdictions; or
      (2)   An applicant is overdue in payment to the village of taxes, fees,
fines, or penalties assessed against or imposed upon him or her in relation to
any business, which are not the subject of a pending appeal or other legal
challenge.
   (G)   A sexually oriented business license shall state on its face the name
of the applicant, the expiration date, and the address of the licensed sexually
oriented business. All sexually oriented business licenses shall be posted in a
conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the business so that they may be
easily read at any time.
   (H)   Council or its designee shall advise the applicant in writing within
three days of Council’s decision of the reasons for any license denial. If
Council finds, subsequent to denial, that the basis for the denial of the
license has been corrected or abated, the applicant may reapply.
(Ord. 61-2010, passed 3-15-2010)
§ 111.20 EMPLOYEE LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for an employee license shall be submitted to Council
or its designee on a form provided by Council. The application may request, and
the applicant shall provide, information as reasonably necessary (including
fingerprints) to enable Council to determine whether the applicant meets the
qualifications established in this chapter.
   (B)   An application for an employee license shall be completed according to
the instructions of the application form, which shall require the following:
      (1)   State the applicant’s name and any other names (including “stage”
names) or aliases used by the applicant;
      (2)   State the applicant’s date and place of birth;
      (3)   State the applicant’s height, weight, and hair and eye color;
      (4)   Submit the applicant’s fingerprints, recorded by the County
Sheriff’s Office;
      (5)   Describe and identify the location of any tattoos on the
applicant’s face, arms, legs, or hands, or any other anatomical area that
normally would be visible when the applicant is on the premises of the proposed
sexually oriented business;
      (6)   State the applicant’s present residence address and telephone
number;
      (7)   State the applicant’s present or intended business address and
telephone number;
      (8)   State the applicant’s driver’s license number and social security
number;
      (9)   Submit proof that the applicant is at least 18 years old;
      (10)   Provide a statement detailing the sexually oriented business-
related license history of the applicant for the five years immediately
preceding the date of the filing of the application, including whether the
applicant previously operated or is seeking to operate a sexually oriented
business, in this or any other jurisdiction, and whether the applicant has ever
had a sexually oriented business-related license, permit, or authorization to
do business denied, revoked, or suspended. In the event of any denial,
revocation, or suspension, state the name of the issuing or denying
jurisdiction and describe in full the reason for the denial, revocation, or
suspension. Attach a copy of any order of denial, revocation, or suspension;
      (11)   State whether the applicant has been convicted of a specified
criminal activity as defined in this chapter and, if so, the specified criminal
activity involved and the date, place, and jurisdiction of each conviction;
      (12)   The above-required disclosures facilitate the police investigation
into the applicant’s criminal background regarding crimes of a sexual nature so
that Council can determine whether the chapter’s civil disabilities provisions
apply. The provisions exist to combat the sex crimes connected with sexually
oriented establishments by temporarily prohibiting those recently convicted of
those crimes from employment with those establishments. In addition, the
required disclosures ensure continuing compliance with the chapter’s licensing
and permitting requirements; and
      (13)   The information gathered pursuant to the above provisions
constitutes protected private information and is exempt from Ohio’s Public
Records Act, being R.C. §§ 149.43 et seq., in accordance with the decision of
the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals in Deja Vu of Cincinnati v. Union Township
(6th Cir. 2005), 411 F.3d 777.
   (C)   Upon issuance of the license, an employee shall furnish a photograph
of himself or herself that clearly shows the applicant’s face.
(Ord. 61-2010, passed 3-15-2010)
§ 111.21 ISSUANCE OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS EMPLOYEE LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon the filing of a completed application for an employee license,
Council or its designee shall issue a license to the applicant immediately.
   (B)   Within five days of receipt of a completed application for an employee
license, Council or its designee shall request that the County Sheriff’s
Department initiate an investigation of the information provided in the
application concerning the criminal background of the applicant. The County
Sheriff’s Department shall document the results of its investigation in writing
within five days of the completion of its investigation and transmit this
writing to Council or its designee.
   (C)   Within ten days after completion of the criminal background
investigation of the applicant, Council or its designee shall either affirm the
prior issuance of the license or revoke the license. Council or its designee
shall affirm the prior issuance of a license to an applicant unless he or she
determines that one or more of the following findings are true:
      (1)   The applicant has failed to provide all information and documents
required for issuance of the license as requested on the application form, or
has provided information or documents as requested on the application that are
insufficient on their face; provided, however, that no license shall be denied
solely on the ground that an applicant has refused to disclose its social
security number in accordance with the provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974,
being 5 U.S.C. §§ 552a et seq., Pub. L. No. 93-579, § 7(a)(1);
      (2)   The applicant is under 18 years of age;
      (3)   The applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal activity
as defined in this chapter;
      (4)   The employee license is to be used for employment in a business
prohibited by local, state, or federal law, statute, rule, or regulation; or
      (5)   The applicant has, within the preceding 12 months, been denied an
employee license by any jurisdiction or has had an employee license revoked by
any jurisdiction.
   (D)   If the employee license is revoked, Council or its designee shall
advise the applicant in writing within three days of the reason(s) for any
revocation.
(Ord. 61-2010, passed 3-15-2010)
§ 111.22 EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each license issued pursuant to this chapter shall expire one year
from the date of issuance and may be renewed by making application as provided
in this section. Application for renewal shall be made no more than 90 days and
no less than 21 days before the expiration date. If application is made less
than 21 days before the expiration date, the license will not be extended
pending a decision on the application, but will expire on its normal expiration
date.
   (B)   An application for renewal of a sexually oriented business license
shall be submitted to Council or its designee on a form provided by the
village. The completed renewal application shall describe any changes or
additions to, or deletions from, the information provided in the applicant’s
initial license application pursuant to this chapter. Copies of any document or
material submitted in connection with the initial license application shall
accompany the completed renewal application that has been revised or the
application shall be revised to reflect any change in circumstances or
conditions. Sketches or diagrams submitted with an initial sexually oriented
business license application may be resubmitted with subsequent renewal
applications, provided that the applicant certifies in writing that the sketch
or diagram still depicts the premises accurately.
   (C)   Council or its designee shall make determinations concerning the
approval of license renewals based on the same criteria and time mandates used
to evaluate applications for new licenses under this chapter.
   (D)   Council or its designee shall advise the applicant in writing within
three days of the reason(s) for any denial of a license renewal.
   (E)   An application for renewal of an employee license shall be submitted
to Council or its designee on a form provided by the village. The completed
renewal application shall describe any changes or additions to, or deletions
from, the information provided in the applicant’s initial license application
pursuant to this chapter. Copies of any document or material submitted in
connection with the initial license application shall accompany the completed
renewal application that has been revised or requires revision to reflect any
change in circumstances or conditions.
   (F)   When Council denies an application for renewal of a license, the
applicant shall not be issued another license for one year from the date of
denial. However, if Council finds, subsequent to denial, that the basis for the
denial of the renewal license has been corrected or abated, the applicant may
reapply prior to the expiration of the one-year period.
(Ord. 61-2010, passed 3-15-2010)
§ 111.23 SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Council shall suspend a sexually oriented business license for a
period not to exceed 30 days if it determines that a licensee:
      (1)   Has violated or is not in compliance with any section of this
chapter; or
      (2)   Has knowingly allowed an employee to violate or fail to comply with
any section of this chapter.
   (B)   Council shall suspend a sexually oriented business license for a
period not to exceed 30 days if it determines that a licensee or its employee
or agent has refused to allow, or has prohibited or has interfered with, an
inspection of the licensed sexually oriented business premises as authorized by
§
111.19(B) and (C) or any other reasonable inspection.
   (C)   Council shall suspend an employee license for a period not to exceed
30 days if it determines that a licensee has violated or is not in compliance
with any section of this chapter.
   (D)   Council or its designee shall advise the licensee in writing within
three days of the reason(s) for any suspension.
(Ord. 61-2010, passed 3-15-2010)
§ 111.24 REVOCATION.
   (A)   Council shall revoke a sexually oriented business license or employee
license if a cause of suspension under this chapter occurs and the license has
been suspended two times within the preceding 12 months.
   (B)   Council shall revoke a sexually oriented business license if it
determines that:
      (1)   A licensee failed to provide all information and documents required
for issuance of the license as requested on the application form, or provided
information or documents as requested on the application that are false;
      (2)   The licensee(s) failed to comply with any requirement stated in the
license, pursuant to this chapter, to correct specified deficiencies within 120
days;
      (3)   A licensee has knowingly allowed possession, use, or sale of
controlled substances on the premises;
      (4)   A licensee has knowingly allowed prostitution, solicitation, or the
commission of a felony on the premises;
      (5)   A licensee knowingly operated the sexually oriented business during
a period of time when the licensee’s license was suspended;
      (6)   A licensee has knowingly allowed any act of specified sexual
activity, as defined in this chapter, to occur in or on the licensed premises;
      (7)   A licensee has been convicted of a specified criminal activity, as
defined in this chapter, during the term of the license; or
      (8)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the village, county, or
state for any taxes or fees that were assessed or imposed in relation to any
business.
   (C)   Council shall revoke an employee license if it determines that:
      (1)   The licensee failed to provide all information and documents
required for issuance of the license as requested on the application form, or
provided information or documents as requested on the application that are
false;
      (2)   The licensee has knowingly acted as an employee on the premises of
a sexually oriented business during a period of time when the licensee’s
license was suspended; or
      (3)   The licensee has been convicted of a specified criminal activity,
as defined in this chapter during the term of the license.
   (D)   Council or its designee shall advise the licensee in writing within
three days of the reason(s) for any revocation.
   (E)   When Council revokes a license pursuant to divisions (A), (B)(3)
through (7), (C)(2) or (3) above, the licensee shall not be issued another
license for one year from the date the revocation became effective.
   (F)   When Council revokes a license pursuant to divisions (B)(1), (B)(8) or
(C)(1) above, the applicant may be granted a license if the basis for the
revocation has been corrected or abated and at least 30 days have elapsed since
the date the revocation became effective.
(Ord. 61-2010, passed 3-15-2010)
§ 111.25 APPEAL RIGHTS.
   (A)   In the event that Council denies, suspends, or revokes a new or
renewal license under this chapter, or any action taken on an appeal that is
provided by this chapter, the applicant may pursue an appeal to County Court of
Common Pleas pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2506. The failure of Council to render a
decision on the application within the time prescribed in §
111.23(A) shall be considered an affirmance of the denial, suspension, or
revocation of the license and the applicant may pursue an appeal to County
Court of Common Pleas pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2506. This appeal provision is
intended to comply with the requirement for prompt judicial review stated by
the United States Supreme Court in Township of Littleton, Colorado v. Z.J.
Gifts D-4 (2004), 541 U.S. 774.
   (B)   Any licensee lawfully operating a sexually oriented business prior to
the denial of a license renewal application, or the suspension or revocation of
a license, shall retain the license and all privileges attendant thereto,
subject to all other terms of this chapter, so that the status quo of the
licensee is maintained during the pendency of an appeal of a decision rendered
under this chapter and during the entire time required for the court to rule on
the appeal pursuant to division (A) above.
   (C)   Any licensee lawfully acting as an employee in a sexually oriented
business prior to the denial of a license renewal application, or the
suspension or revocation of a license, shall retain the license and all
privileges attendant thereto, subject to all other terms of this chapter, so
that the status quo of the licensee is maintained during the pendency of an
appeal of a decision rendered under this chapter and during the entire time
required for the court to rule on the appeal pursuant to division (A) above.
   (D)   In the event that any judicial review of the denial of a new or
renewal license application or the revocation or suspension of a license is
still pending 30 days before the expiration date of any license, the licensee
may file a renewal license application with Council or its designee pursuant to
this chapter. In the event that an application for renewal of a license is
denied and the applicant seeks judicial review of that denial, Council has the
right to consolidate the review with any pending judicial actions in regards to
the previous denial, suspension, or revocation of a license.
   (E)   If, during the pendency of any appeal pursued under division (A)
above, there are additional denials of a renewal license application or
suspensions or revocations of that license, Council has the right to
consolidate the appeal pursued under division (A) above for the additional
denials, suspensions, or revocations with any pending appeal for that same
licensee.
(Ord. 61-2010, passed 3-15-2010)
§ 111.26 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A sexually oriented business license is not transferable from one
licensee to another or from one location to another. Any purported transfer of
a sexually oriented business license shall automatically and immediately revoke
that license.
   (B)   An employee license is not transferable from one licensee to another,
but the use of the license by the individual to whom it was issued may be
transferred from one licensed sexually oriented business to another such
licensed establishment during the term of the license, provided that the
licensee gives written notice of the transfer to Council or its designee within
15 days of the transfer.
(Ord. 61-2010, passed 3-15-2010)
§ 111.27 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE OPERATION OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED
BUSINESS.
   (A)   Sexual activity, live entertainment, and performances.
      (1)   No person shall, in a sexually oriented business, appear before a
patron or patrons in a state of nudity, regardless of whether the public nudity
is expressive in nature.
      (2)   Any employee appearing on the premises of a sexually oriented
business in a state of seminudity, as defined by this chapter, must be on a
stage that is at least 20 inches from the floor, and at a distance at least 30
inches from all parts of a clearly designated area in which patrons will be
present.
      (3)   All live entertainment and performances in a sexually oriented
business must take place on a stage that is at least 20 inches from the floor
and a distance of at least 30 inches from all parts of a clearly designated
area in which patrons will be present.
      (4)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from an operator’s station of every area of
the premises, including the interior of each viewing room but excluding
restrooms, to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose. If the
premises has two or more operator’s stations designated, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for
any purpose from at least one of the operator’s stations. It is the duty of the
operator to ensure that at least one employee is on duty and situated in an
operator’s station at all times that any patron is on the portion of the
premises monitored by the operator station. It shall be the duty of the
operator, and it shall also be the duty of any employees present on the
premises, to ensure that the view area specified in this division remains
unobstructed by any doors, curtains, walls, merchandise, display racks or other
materials or enclosures at all times that any patron is present on the
premises.
      (5)   No employee shall knowingly or intentionally, in a sexually
oriented business, appear within view of any patron in a nude or seminude
condition unless the employee, while nude or seminude, shall be and remain at
least five feet from all patrons.
      (6)   Employees in a sexually oriented business shall maintain a minimum
distance of five feet from areas on the business premises occupied by patrons
for a minimum of 60 minutes after the employee appears in a nude or seminude
condition within view of any patron. This regulation is not intended to
prohibit ingress or egress from the premises. It is intended to control illicit
sexual contact and reduce the incidents of prostitution occurring in the
establishments.
      (7)   No patron who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family
shall knowingly touch an employee while that employee is nude or seminude or
touch the clothing of any employee while that employee is nude or seminude.
      (8)   No employee who regularly appears nude or seminude on the premises
of a sexually oriented business and while nude or seminude, shall knowingly
touch a patron who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or
another employee who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family, or the
clothing of a patron who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or
another employee who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family, or
allow the patron who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or
another employee who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family to
touch the employee or the clothing of the employee.
      (9)   The provisions of divisions (A)(1) through (A)(8) above shall not
apply to an employee’s use of any restroom or any single-sex dressing room that
is accessible only to employees.
      (10)   In addition, divisions (A)(1) through (A)(8) shall not apply to
live performances in which the patron and employee are separated by an
impenetrable barrier, such as but not limited to glass or Plexiglas.
   (B)   Minors prohibited. No person under the age of 18 years shall be
permitted on the premises of a sexually oriented business.
   (C)   Hours of operation. No sexually oriented business shall be or remain
open for business between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. on any day, except that
a sexually oriented business that holds a liquor permit pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 4303 may remain open until the hour specified in that permit if it does
not conduct, offer, or allow sexually oriented business activity in which the
performers appear nude.
(Ord. 61-2010, passed 3-15-2010)
CRIMINAL CONDUCT IN SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
§ 111.40 FINDINGS.
   (A)   Based on the evidence and reports cited in §
111.02, Council finds:
      (1)   Sexually oriented businesses, as a category of commercial uses, are
often associated with a wide variety of adverse secondary effects, including
but not limited to personal and property crimes, prostitution, potential spread
of disease, lewdness, public indecency, illicit drug use and drug trafficking,
negative impacts on surrounding properties, urban blight, litter, and sexual
assault and exploitation; and
      (2)   Illegal and unsanitary acts involving nudity, including lewd
conduct, masturbation, oral and anal sex, occur at unregulated sexually
oriented businesses, including those businesses which provide private or
semiprivate rooms, booths, or cubicles for viewing films, videos, or live
performances.
   (B)   (1)   Each of the foregoing negative secondary effects constitutes a
harm which the village has a substantial government interest in preventing and/
or abating.
      (2)   This substantial government interest in preventing secondary
effects, which is the village’s rationale for this subchapter, exists
independent of any comparative analysis between sexually oriented and non-
sexually oriented businesses. Additionally, Council’s interest in regulating
sexually oriented businesses extends to preventing future secondary effects of
either current or future sexually oriented businesses that may locate in the
village. Council finds that the cases and documentation relied on in this
subchapter are reasonably believed to be relevant to those secondary effects.
   (C)   The enactment of this subchapter will promote the general welfare,
health, morals, and safety of the citizens of the village.
(Ord. 60-2010, passed 3-15-2010)
Cross-reference:
   Case law background for this section, see §
111.02
§ 111.41 UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Nothing contained in this subchapter is intended, or shall be
construed, to permit or authorize activities which are unlawful under state law
or Council ordinance. It is unlawful and a violation of this subchapter for an
operator to knowingly or intentionally violate the provisions of this
subchapter or to allow, either knowingly or intentionally, an employee or a
patron to violate the provisions of this subchapter. It shall be a defense to
prosecution that the person prosecuted was powerless to prevent the violation.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly or intentionally, in a sexually oriented
business, appear before a patron or patrons in a state of nudity, regardless of
whether the public nudity is expressive in nature.
   (C)   No employee shall knowingly or intentionally, in a sexually oriented
business, appear within view of any patron in a seminude condition unless the
employee, while seminude, shall be and remain at least five feet from all
patrons and on a fixed stage at least 20 inches from the floor and at least 30
inches from all parts of a clearly designated area in which patrons will be
present.
   (D)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that
there is an unobstructed view from an operator’s station of every area of the
premises, including the interior of each viewing room but excluding restrooms,
to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose. If the premises has
two or more operator’s stations designated, then the interior of the premises
shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed view of each
area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose
from at least one of the operator’s stations. The view required in this
division must be by direct line of sight from the operator’s station. It is the
duty of the operator to ensure that at least one employee is on duty and
situated in an operator’s station at all times that any patron is on the
portion of the premises monitored by that operator station. It shall be the
duty of the operator, and it shall also be the duty of any employees present on
the premises, to ensure that the view area specified in this division remains
unobstructed by any doors, curtains, walls, merchandise, display racks or other
materials or enclosures at all times that any patron is present on the
premises.
   (E)   Sexually oriented businesses that do not have stages or interior
configurations which meet at least the minimum requirements of this section
shall be given 180 days from the effective date of this section to comply with
the stage and building requirements of this section. During the 180 days, any
employee who appears within view of any patron in a seminude condition shall
nevertheless remain, while seminude, at least five feet from all patrons.
   (F)   No patron who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family shall
knowingly touch an employee while that employee is nude or seminude or touch
the clothing of any employee while that employee is nude or seminude.
   (G)   No employee who regularly appears nude or seminude on the premises of
a sexually oriented business and while nude or seminude, shall knowingly touch
a patron who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or another
employee who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family, or the
clothing of a patron who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or
another employee who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family, or
allow the patron who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or
another employee who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family to
touch the employee or the clothing of the employee.
   (H)   No person under the age of 18 years shall be permitted on the premises
of a sexually oriented business.
   (I)   No sexually oriented business shall be or remain open for business
between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. on any day, except that a sexually
oriented business that holds a liquor permit pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4303 may
remain open until the hour specified in that permit if it does not conduct,
offer, or allow sexually oriented business activity in which the performers
appear nude.
   (J)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to an employee’s use of
any restroom or any single-sex dressing room that is accessible only to
employees, and live performances in which the patron and employee are separated
by an impenetrable barrier, such as but not limited to glass or Plexiglas.
(Ord. 60-2010, passed 3-15-2010) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.42 SCIENTER REQUIRED TO PROVE VIOLATION OR BUSINESS LIABILITY.
   This subchapter does not impose strict liability. Unless a culpable mental
state is otherwise specified herein, a showing of a knowing or reckless mental
state is necessary to establish a violation of a provision of §
111.41. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, for the purposes of §
111.41, an act by an employee shall be imputed to the sexually oriented
business for purposes of finding a violation of this section only if an
officer, director, general partner or licensee, or a person who managed,
supervised, or controlled the operation of the business premises, knowingly or
recklessly allowed the act to occur on the premises. It shall be a defense to
liability that the person to whom liability is imputed was powerless to prevent
the act.
(Ord. 60-2010, passed 3-15-2010)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates §
111.17(A)(1) shall be guilty of a third degree misdemeanor for a first offense,
and a second degree misdemeanor for a second offense.
      (2)   A violation of §
111.17(A)(2) shall be a ground for the suspension of a sexually oriented
business license as provided for in §
111.23.
   (C)   (1)   Any person, business, or entity violating or refusing to comply
with any provisions of §§
111.40 through
111.42 (except for violations of § 111.41(F), (G), or (I)), shall, upon
conviction, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a first
degree misdemeanor with a penalty of up to six months in jail and a fine of
$1,000. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist or occur, and each
separate occurrence, shall constitute a separate offense. Further, any premises
in which a sexually oriented business, as defined in §
111.03, is repeatedly operated or maintained in violation of the provisions of
this subchapter shall constitute a public nuisance and shall be subject to
civil abatement proceedings initiated by Council in a court of competent
jurisdiction. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist or occur shall
constitute a separate operation or maintenance of the violation.
      (2)   Whoever violates §
111.41(F) or (G) shall be guilty of illegal sexually oriented activity in a
sexually oriented business. If the offender touches a specified anatomical area
of the patron or employee, or the clothing covering a specified anatomical
area, a violation of §
111.41(F) or (G) is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender does not
touch a specified anatomical area of the patron or employee, or the clothing
covering a specified anatomical area, a violation of §
111.41(F) or (G) is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (3)   Whoever violates §
111.42(I) is guilty of illegally operating a sexually oriented business, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (4)   Notwithstanding division (B)(1) above, Council may employ any
remedy available at law or in equity to prevent or remedy a violation of any
provision of §§
111.40 through
111.42.
(Ord. 60-2010, passed 3-15-2010; Ord. 61-2010, passed 3-15-2010)
CHAPTER 112: CABLE SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Prohibiting installation of additional poles and pedestals
Fees and Charges
   
112.15   Video service provider (VSP) fee
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 PROHIBITING INSTALLATION OF ADDITIONAL POLES AND PEDESTALS.
   The installation of additional poles and pedestals for use of cable
television service shall be and is prohibited, and the service installation
shall be and is limited to existing electric power poles.
(Ord. 36-91, passed 12-30-1991)
FEES AND CHARGES
§ 112.15 VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER (VSP) FEE.
   (A)   The Council of the village hereby establishes a VSP fee that is
calculated by applying a VSP fee percentage of 3% to the video service
provider’s gross revenues as defined in R.C. § 1332.32(B) of the Video Law,
being R.C. §§ 1332.21 through 1332.34. All video service providers and cable
television operators providing video service in the village shall apply the VSP
fee percentage against gross revenues as defined in the Video Law.
   (B)   The VSP fee shall be paid by each video service provider providing
service in the village on a quarterly basis but not sooner than 45 days nor
later than 60 days after the end of the each calendar quarter.
   (C)   The Mayor is authorized and directed to provide any video service
provider with notice of the VSP fee percentage as determined by this Council
above, which notice shall be given by certified mail, upon receipt of notice
from the video service provider that it will begin providing video service in
the village pursuant to a state-issued video service authorization.
(Ord. 09-17, passed 3-16-2009)
Statutory reference:
   Payment of video service provider fees, see R.C. § 1332.32(A)
CHAPTER 113: SALES FROM THE HOME
Section
   
113.01   Home sales restricted
   
113.02   Definition
   
113.03   Intent
   
113.04   Prohibitions
   
113.05   Hours of sale
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 HOME SALES RESTRICTED.
   It is hereby determined to restrict and control home sales as described
below held on residential premises in the village.
(Ord. 54-75, passed 12-1-1975)
§ 113.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOME SALES. A sale of personal property to the general public conducted on
any portion of the residence property within a residential zoning district,
including but not limited to garage sales, patio sales, yard sales, carport
sales, basement sales, porch sales, driveway sales, and rummage sales.
(Ord. 54-75, passed 12-1-1975)
§ 113.03 INTENT.
   (A)   It is the intent of this chapter to regulate, restrict, and control
home sales conducted on residence premises within residential zoning districts.
It is not the intent of this chapter to prevent corporations not for profit,
churches, temples, or recognized fraternities, sororities, clubs, or lodges
from conducting home sales. It is further not the intent of this chapter to
regulate sales conducted by nonconforming businesses located in residential
zoning districts.
   (B)   This chapter shall not apply to any sale conducted by a government
agency, any sale conducted by an executor or administrator pursuant to an
expressed order or process of a court of competent jurisdiction, or to any
isolated sale conducted by a duly licensed auctioneer selling at auction,
unless the auction sale is conducted for more than two days in any 60-day
period.
(Ord. 54-75, passed 12-1-1975)
§ 113.04 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person, firm, property owner, or corporation shall violate the
rules and regulations as provided within this chapter.
   (B)   No home sales shall be conducted on the same residential property more
than twice in a 12-month period.
   (C)   No home sale shall be conducted during hours other than those hours
prescribed in §
113.05, and in no event shall a home sale last more than five consecutive days.
   (D)   No home sale shall offer new or used merchandise for sale that has
been purchased by the resident for purpose of resale at the home sale. Any new
merchandise offered for sale could be used as prima facie evidence of
merchandise purchased by the resident for resale at the home sale.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to erect or permit to be displayed more than
three signs advertising, promoting, or giving directions to the sale. Each home
sale sign shall not exceed four square feet. The signs shall be displayed only
during the sale and shall be promptly removed after the sale. The signs shall
not be illuminated or animated.
   (F)   It is not the intent of this chapter to change or amend the zoning
ordinance of the village.
(Ord. 54-75, passed 12-1-1975) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.05 HOURS OF SALE.
   No home sale shall be commenced earlier than 9:00 a.m., nor shall the sale
last later than sundown.
(Ord. 54-75, passed 12-1-1975) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined for a first offense
not less than $5 nor more than $25, and for a second offense shall be fined not
more than $50.
(Ord. 54-75, passed 12-1-1975)
CHAPTER 114: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   License required
   
114.03   License application and requirements
   
114.04   Fees
   
114.05   Appeals
   
114.06   Carrying or exhibiting license
   
114.07   Excess noise; hours regulated
   
114.08   License exceptions
   
114.09   Employee peddlers to be licensed
   
114.10   Renewal of license
   
114.11   Revocation of license
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. Any person who carries with him or her for the purpose of sale at
retail and immediate or future delivery goods, wares, food, or merchandise, or
any person who, in person, as principal or agent, canvasses, sells, or
otherwise obtains orders or commitments for the sale, repair, or exchange of
goods, wares, food or merchandise, or services.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who obtains or seeks to obtain funds for any cause
whatsoever by means of canvassing from place to place.
(Ord. 26-73, passed 5-1-1973)
§ 114.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall engage in the business or activity of
peddler or solicitor in this village without first obtaining a license as
provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 26-73, passed 5-1-1973) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03 LICENSE APPLICATION AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Applications for licenses for peddlers or solicitors shall be filed
with the Chief of Police on a form to be furnished by the officer which shall
require, at least, the following information:
      (1)   Name of applicant and physical description;
      (2)   Home address of applicant and social security number of applicant
or tax identification number of employer;
      (3)   Name and address of the person by whom employed for whom they are
soliciting;
      (4)   Length of service with the employer or person for whom they are
soliciting;
      (5)   All places of residence and all employment during the preceding
year;
      (6)   The nature and character of the goods to be sold or services to be
furnished by the applicant or the purpose for which funds are being solicited;
      (7)   Names of other towns in which the applicant has recently conducted
activities for which license is herein required; and
      (8)   The application of the village income tax form must also be filled
out with the registration.
   (B)   (1)   The applicant shall furnish a recent photograph of himself or
herself not more than one year old and approximately three inches by three
inches square.
      (2)   The application shall be made at least ten days before the license
is issued.
   (C)   If the Chief of Police determines after an investigation, that the
applicant proposes to engage in a lawful commercial or professional enterprise,
and neither the applicant nor the enterprise upon which the applicant proposes
to engage constitutes a clear and present danger to the residents of the
village, he or she shall issue a license to the applicant.
(Ord. 26-73, passed 5-1-1973)
§ 114.04 FEES.
   For the license to be issued under the provisions of this chapter, each
applicant shall pay to the village the sum of $10. For renewal license to be
issued under the provisions of this chapter, each applicant shall pay to the
village the sum of $5. All licenses issued hereunder all be for a period of one
year or less which shall end December 31 of that calendar year in which they
are required, regardless of the date the license is issued.
(Ord. 26-73, passed 5-1-1973)
§ 114.05 APPEALS.
   Any applicant who has applied for a license in accordance with this chapter
and to whom the Chief of Police has, after investigation, denied a license may
appeal to the Village Council. Notice of the appeal shall be filed with the
Village Fiscal Officer within five days after the denial by the Chief of
Police. The Village Council, on appeal, may grant or reject the application for
license.
(Ord. 26-73, passed 5-1-1973)
§ 114.06 CARRYING OR EXHIBITING LICENSE.
   The license issued under the provision of this chapter shall be carried by
any peddler or solicitor at all times when peddling or soliciting and shall be
exhibited to any person being solicited and, on request, to any enforcement
officer.
(Ord. 26-73, passed 5-1-1973)
§ 114.07 EXCESS NOISE; HOURS REGULATED.
   (A)   No peddler shall use any whistle, bell, horn, or other mechanical
device for the purpose of advertising his or her goods, wares and merchandise
or services, or attracting customers and shall not call his or her goods,
wares, foods, merchandise, or services in a loud voice for those purposes.
   (B)   All peddling or soliciting done under license issued by virtue of this
chapter shall be conducted between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on
weekdays and Saturdays. No peddling or soliciting shall be conducted on Sunday.
(Ord. 26-73, passed 5-1-1973)
§ 114.08 LICENSE EXCEPTIONS.
   No license shall be required of a peddler or solicitor for the following:
   (A)   Persons who solicit only the purchase of or subscription for
newspapers having their principal sale or distribution in this village or in
the county;
   (B)   Persons who solicit only for wholesale delivery to merchants,
manufacturers, or other businesspersons at their office, place of business or
profession, businesses or manufacturing establishments;
   (C)   Persons who act as peddlers or solicitors at the invitation or request
of the person contacted; and
   (D)   Persons who, without compensation, elicit or peddle on behalf of any
locally recognized religious, educational, civic, or charitable organization.
(Ord. 26-73, passed 5-1-1973)
§ 114.09 EMPLOYEE PEDDLERS TO BE LICENSED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be hired by another to sell goods,
wares, food, merchandise, or services in the village as a peddler, unless the
person so hired has been duly licensed as hereinbefore provided.
(Ord. 26-73, passed 5-1-1973) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.10 RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   The Chief of Police, may, at his or her option, renew a license previously
issued without fulfillment of some or all of the license application and
requirements set forth in §
114.03.
(Ord. 26-73, passed 5-1-1973)
§ 114.11 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any license issued under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked at
any time, by the Chief of Police, should the person to whom it is issued be
guilty of any fraud, misrepresentation, or unlawful act in connection with his
or her business, or otherwise; is found to be a person not fit to be engaged in
that business; or violates any of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 26-73, passed 5-1-1973) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and fined not more than $50. Each day on which sales are conducted
in violation of this chapter shall be held to constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 26-73, passed 5-1-1973)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
      
133.   SEX OFFENSES
      
134.   GAMBLING OFFENSES
      
135.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
      
136.   OFFENSES AGAINST JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
      
137.   WEAPONS CONTROL
      
138.   DRUG OFFENSES
OHIO LEGISLATIVE HISTORY REFERENCES – TITLE XIII
Ohio Revised Code Section 2022 Basic Code Section
Ohio Revised Code Section       2022 Basic Code Section
128.01(A)                       136.20(A)
128.32(E) - (G)                 136.20(B) - (D)
128.99(A), (B)                  136.20(E)
715.67                          130.99(A)
901.51                          131.21(A), (B)
901.99(A)                       131.21(C)
1349.17                         131.31(A) - (C)
1349.99(A)                      131.31(D)
1533.171(A)                     131.24(A),
                                135.05(A)
1533.99(C)                      131.24(B),
                                135.05(B)
2901.01                         130.02
2901.02                         130.03
2901.03                         130.04
2901.04                         130.05
2901.05                         130.13
2901.06                         130.14
2901.08                         130.15
2901.09                         130.21
2901.11                         130.16
2901.13                         130.06
2901.21                         130.07
2901.22                         130.08
2901.23                         130.09
2901.24                         130.10
2903.05                         135.02
2903.06                         135.03
2903.08                         135.03(F)
2903.09                         135.01
2903.10                         135.19
2903.13                         135.04(A)
2903.14                         135.04(B)
2903.16                         135.19
2903.21                         135.06(B)
2903.211                        135.06(C)
2903.22                         135.06(A)
2903.31                         135.17
2903.33                         135.20(A)
2903.34                         135.20(B)
2903.341                        135.20(C)
2903.35                         135.20(D)
2903.36                         135.20(E)
2905.03                         135.07
2905.12                         135.09
2907.01                         133.01
2907.04                         133.02
2907.06                         133.03
2907.08                         133.05
2907.09                         133.04
2907.10                         133.06
2907.23                         133.07(A) - (C)
2907.231                        133.07(D) - (F)
2907.24                         133.08(A) - (D)
2907.241                        133.08(E) - (H)
2907.25                         133.09
2907.26                         133.13
2907.31                         133.10(A) - (E)
2907.311                        133.11
2907.33                         133.12
2907.35                         133.10(F)
2907.36                         133.14
2907.37                         133.15
2907.38                         133.16
2907.39                         133.17
2907.40                         133.18
2909.01                         131.01
2909.03                         131.02(A) - (D)
2909.06                         131.03(A)
2909.07                         131.04
2909.08(A) - (E)                131.05
2909.09                         131.03(B)
2909.10                         131.34(A) - (D)
2909.101                        131.34(E), (F)
2909.11(B) - (D)                131.02(E)
2909.31                         136.21(E), (F)
2911.21                         131.06(A) - (F)
2911.211                        131.06(G)
2911.23                         131.06(H)
2911.32                         131.07
2913.01                         131.01
2913.02                         131.08
2913.03                         131.09
2913.04                         131.10(A) - (J)
2913.07                         131.33
2913.11                         131.11
2913.21                         131.12
2913.31(B), (C)(2)              131.26
2913.32                         131.27
2913.33                         131.13
2913.34                         131.29
2913.40                         131.23(C)
2913.401                        131.23(D)
2913.41                         131.14
2913.42                         131.15
2913.43                         131.16
2913.44                         131.28
2913.441                        132.11
2913.45                         131.17
2913.47                         131.23(A)
2913.48                         131.23(B)
2913.51                         131.18
2913.61(B) - (E)                131.19
2913.71                         131.20
2913.72                         131.25(A)
2913.73                         131.25(B)
2915.01                         134.01
2915.02(A) - (G), (K)           134.02
2915.03                         134.03
2915.04                         134.04
2915.05                         134.05
2915.06                         134.14(A), (B)
2915.061                        134.14(C)
2915.09                         134.06
2915.091                        134.10
2915.092                        134.11
2915.093                        134.12(A) - (F)
2915.094                        134.13
2915.10                         134.07
2915.11                         134.08
2915.12                         134.09
2915.13                         134.12(G)
2915.14                         134.15
2917.01                         132.10
2917.03                         132.01(A) - (C)
2917.031                        132.01(D)
2917.04                         132.02
2917.05                         132.03
2917.11                         132.04
2917.12                         132.05
2917.13                         132.06
2917.21                         132.07
2917.211                        133.20
2917.31                         132.08
2917.32                         132.09
2917.40                         132.13
2917.41                         132.14
2919.01                         135.10
2919.11                         135.11
2919.12                         135.11
2919.121                        135.11
2919.122                        135.11(H)
2919.14                         135.12
2919.18                         135.11(I)
2919.21                         135.13
2919.22(A) - (E), (H)           135.14
2919.23                         135.15(A)
2919.231                        135.15(B)
2919.24                         135.18
2919.25                         135.16
2919.27                         135.23
2921.01                         136.01
2921.04                         136.17
2921.13                         136.02(A) - (F)
2921.14                         136.14
2921.15                         136.19
2921.21                         136.03
2921.22                         136.04
2921.23                         136.05
2921.24                         136.16(A) - (D)
2921.25                         136.16(E), (F)
2921.29                         136.21(A) - (D)
2921.31                         136.06
2921.32                         136.07
2921.321                        136.15
2921.33                         136.08
2921.36                         136.13(A) - (G)
2921.37                         136.13(H)
2921.42                         136.09
2921.43                         136.10
2921.44                         136.11
2921.45                         136.12
2921.51                         132.12
2921.52(A) - (D)                136.18
2923.02                         130.11
2923.03                         130.12
2923.11                         137.01
2923.12                         137.02
2923.122(C) - (G)               137.11
2923.126                        137.13(B)
2923.1211(B), (C)               137.13(A)
2923.1212                       137.13(C)
2923.131                        137.12
2923.15                         137.03
2923.16                         137.04
2923.162                        137.09
2923.18                         137.10
2923.19                         137.06
2923.20                         137.07
2923.201                        137.14
2923.211                        137.08
2923.24                         137.05
2925.01                         138.01
2925.03(A) - (C), (I)           138.02
2925.04(A), (B), (C)(5), (G)    138.06
2925.11                         138.03
2925.12                         138.04
2925.13(A) - (C), (F)           138.05
2925.14                         138.13(A) - (G)
2925.141                        138.13(H)
2925.31                         138.07
2925.32(B)(4), (D)(2), (F), (G) 138.10(A)
2925.33                         138.10(B)
2925.34                         138.19
2925.36(A) - (C)                138.08
2925.37(A), (G)                 138.12
2925.50                         138.09
2925.51                         138.11(A) - (F)
2925.511                        138.11(G)
2925.55                         138.18(A)
2925.56                         138.18(B)
2925.57                         138.18(C)
2925.58                         138.18(D)
2927.01                         135.28
2927.02                         135.25(A)
2927.021                        135.25(B)
2927.022                        135.25(C)
2927.023                        135.25(D)
2927.024                        135.25(E)
2927.03                         135.21
2927.11                         131.35
2927.12                         135.22
2927.15                         135.08
2927.17                         133.19
2927.27                         130.20
2929.21                         130.99(B)
2929.22                         130.18
2929.23                         133.99
2929.24                         130.99(C)
2929.25                         130.99(D)
2929.26                         130.99(E)
2929.27                         130.99(F)
2929.28                         130.99(G)
2929.31                         130.99(H)
2929.41                         130.19
2935.041                        131.22
2935.36(E)                      130.02
2981.07                         131.30
2981.11                         130.17(A)
2981.12                         130.17(B)
2981.13(A)                      130.17(C)
3701.81                         135.27(A) - (C)
3701.99(C)                      135.27(D)
3715.05                         138.18(E)
3715.06                         138.18(F)
3716.11                         135.24(A)
3716.99(C)                      135.24(B)
3719.08(A), (E)                 138.14(A), (B)
3719.172(A), (B)                138.15(A), (B)
3719.19                         138.09
3719.99(C)                      138.14(C)
3719.99(E)                      138.15(C)
3773.06                         137.09(D)
3773.99(A)                      137.09(D)
3781.55                         133.04(E)
3791.031                        135.26
4509.102                        136.02(G)
4731.481                        138.17(A)
4731.99(F)                      138.17(B)
4734.161                        138.17(A)
4734.99(B)                      138.17(B)
4933.18                         131.32(A) - (C)
4933.19                         131.32(D)
5589.12                         131.10(K)(1)
5589.99(B)                      131.10(K)(2)
 
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Application of Title XIII
   
130.02   Definitions
   
130.03   Classification of offenses
   
130.04   Common law offenses abrogated
   
130.05   Rules of construction
   
130.06   Limitation of criminal prosecutions
   
130.07   Requirements for criminal liability; voluntary intoxication
   
130.08   Culpable mental states
   
130.09   Organizational criminal liability
   
130.10   Personal accountability for organizational conduct
   
130.11   Attempt
   
130.12   Complicity
   
130.13   Presumption of innocence; proof of offense; affirmative defense
   
130.14   Battered woman syndrome
   
130.15   Delinquency adjudications deemed convictions
   
130.16   Criminal law jurisdiction
   
130.17   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property held by Police
Department
   
130.18   Imposing sentence for misdemeanor
   
130.19   Multiple sentences
   
130.20   Apprehension, detention, or arrest of persons on bond
   
130.21   Self defense: limitations on duty to retreat prior to using force
   
130.99   Penalty for Title XIII
Statutory reference:
Mayor’s Court generally, see R.C. Chapter 1905
Municipal Court generally, see R.C. Chapter 1901
Trials, Magistrate Courts, see R.C. Chapter 2938
§ 130.01 APPLICATION OF TITLE XIII.
   (A)   Title XIII of this code of ordinances embodies and prescribes
penalties for offenses against the municipality not classifiable in previous
titles and chapters. The word “misdemeanors”, as used in this title, is not
exhaustive and does not imply that offenses found elsewhere in this code of
ordinances are not also misdemeanors and punishable as such.
   (B)   Each act or omission for which a fine, imprisonment, or both is
provided under this Title or elsewhere in this code, or each act or omission
which is declared a violation of this code, is unlawful and is hereby made a
misdemeanor. Upon conviction, the penalty or penalties so provided shall be
imposed by the court.
§ 130.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTRABAND. Any property that is illegal for a person to acquire or possess
under a statute, ordinance, or rule, or that a trier of fact lawfully
determines to be illegal to possess by reason of the property’s involvement in
an offense. The term includes but is not limited to all of the following:
      (1)   Any controlled substance, as defined in R.C. § 3719.01, or any
device or paraphernalia related thereto;
      (2)   Any unlawful gambling device or paraphernalia;
      (3)   Any dangerous ordnance or obscene material.
   DANGEROUS OFFENDER. A person who has committed an offense, whose history,
character and condition reveal a substantial risk that he or she will be a
danger to others, and whose conduct has been characterized by a pattern of
repetitive, compulsive or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to the
consequences.
   DEADLY FORCE. Any force that carries a substantial risk that it will
proximately result in the death of any person.
   FORCE. Any violence, compulsion, or constraint physically exerted by any
means upon or against a person or thing.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any of the following:
      (1)   A Sheriff, deputy sheriff, constable, police officer of a township
or joint police district, Marshal, deputy marshal, municipal police officer,
member of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under
R.C. § 3735.31(D) or state highway patrol trooper.
      (2)   An officer, agent, or employee of the state or any of its agencies,
instrumentalities, or political subdivisions, upon whom, by statute, a duty to
conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain laws is imposed and the
authority to arrest violators is conferred, within the limits of such statutory
duty and authority.
      (3)   The Mayor, in a capacity as chief conservator of the peace within
the municipality.
      (4)   A member of an auxiliary police force organized by the county,
township, or municipal law enforcement authorities, within the scope of the
member’s appointment or commission.
      (5)   A person lawfully called pursuant to R.C. § 311.07 to aid a sheriff
in keeping the peace, for the purposes and during the time when the person is
called.
      (6)   A person appointed by a Mayor pursuant to R.C. § 737.01 as a
special patrolling officer during a riot or emergency, for the purposes and
during the time when the person is appointed.
      (7)   A member of the organized militia of this state or the armed forces
of the United States, lawfully called to duty to aid civil authorities in
keeping the peace or protect against domestic violence.
      (8)   A prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, secret
service officer, or municipal prosecutor.
      (9)   A veterans’ home police officer appointed under R.C. § 5907.02.
      (10)   A member of a police force employed by a regional transit
authority under R.C. § 306.35(Y).
      (11)   A special police officer employed by a port authority under R.C. §
4582.04 or 4582.28.
      (12)   The House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms if the House of
Representatives Sergeant at Arms has arrest authority pursuant to R.C. §
101.311(E)(1) and an Assistant House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms.
      (13)   The Senate Sergeant at Arms and an Assistant Senate Sergeant at
Arms;
      (14)   A special police officer employed by a municipal corporation at a
municipal airport, or other municipal air navigation facility, that has
scheduled operations, as defined in 14 C.F.R. §
119.3, as amended, and that is required to be under a security program and is
governed by aviation security rules of the Transportation Security
Administration of the United States Department of Transportation as provided in
49 C.F.R. parts 1542 and 1544, as amended.
   NOT GUILTY BY REASON OF INSANITY. A person is “not guilty by reason of
insanity” relative to a charge of an offense only if the person proves, in the
manner specified in R.C. § 2901.05, that at the time of the commission of the
offense, he or she did not know, as a result of a severe mental disease or
defect, the wrongfulness of his or her acts.
   OFFENSE OF VIOLENCE.
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02, 2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.11,
2903.12, 2903.13, 2903.15, 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22, 2905.01, 2905.02,
2905.11, 2905.32, 2907.02, 2907.03, 2907.05, 2909.02, 2909.03, 2909.24,
2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2917.01, 2917.02, 2917.03, 2917.31, 2919.25,
2921.03, 2921.04, 2921.34, or 2923.161, of division (A)(1) of R.C. § 2903.34,
of division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) of R.C. § 2911.12, or of division (B)(1),
(B)(2), (B)(3) or (B)(4) of R.C. § 2919.22, or felonious sexual penetration in
violation of former R.C. § 2907.12;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States, substantially equivalent to
any section, division or offense listed in division (1) of this definition;
      (3)   An offense, other than a traffic offense, under an existing or
former municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or of the United
States, committed purposely or knowingly, and involving physical harm to
persons or a risk of serious physical harm to persons;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   PERSON.
      (1)   (a)   Subject to division (2) of this definition, as used in any
section contained in Title XIII of this code that sets forth a criminal
offense, the term includes all of the following:
            1.   An individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership and association.
            2.   An unborn human who is viable.
         (b)   As used in any section contained in Title XIII of this code that
does not set forth a criminal offense, the term includes an individual,
corporation, business trust, estate, partnership and association.
         (c)   As used in division (1)(a)2. of this definition, “unborn human”
means an individual organism of the species Homo sapiens from fertilization
until live birth. “Viable” means the stage of development of a human fetus at
which there is a realistic probability of maintaining and nourishing of a life
outside the womb with or without temporary artificial life-sustaining support.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (1)(a) of this definition, in no case
shall the portion of the definition of the term “person” that is set forth in
division (1)(a)2. of this definition be applied or construed in any section
contained in Title XIII of this code that sets forth a criminal offense in any
of the following manners:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (2)(a) of this
definition, in a manner so that the offense prohibits or is construed as
prohibiting any pregnant woman or her physician from performing an abortion
with the consent of the pregnant woman, with the consent of the pregnant woman
implied by law in a medical emergency, or with the approval of one otherwise
authorized by law to consent to medical treatment on behalf of the pregnant
woman. An abortion that violates the conditions described in the immediately
preceding sentence may be punished as a violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02,
2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.05, 2903.06, 2903.08, 2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13,
2903.14, 2903.21 or 2903.22, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, as applicable. An abortion that does not violate the conditions
described in the second immediately preceding sentence but that does violate
R.C. § 2919.12, 2919.13(B), 2919.15, 2919.151, 2919.17 or 2919.18, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, may be punished as a violation of
such section, as applicable. Consent is sufficient under this division if it is
of the type otherwise adequate to permit medical treatment to the pregnant
woman, even if it does not comply with R.C. § 2919.12.
         (b)   In a manner so that the offense is applied or is construed as
applying to a woman based on an act or omission of the woman that occurs while
she is or was pregnant and that results in any of the following:
            1.   Her delivery of a stillborn baby;
            2.   Her causing, in any other manner, the death in utero of a
viable, unborn human that she is carrying;
            3.   Her causing the death of her child who is born alive but who
dies from one or more injuries that are sustained while the child is a viable,
unborn human;
            4.   Her causing her child who is born alive to sustain one or more
injuries while the child is a viable, unborn human;
            5.   Her causing, threatening to cause, or attempting to cause, in
any other manner, an injury, illness, or other psychological illness or
condition, regardless of its duration or gravity, to a viable, unborn human
that she is carrying.
   PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS. Any injury, illness, or other physiological
impairment, regardless of its gravity or duration.
   PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY. Any tangible or intangible damage to property
that, in any degree, results in loss to its value or interferes with its use or
enjoyment. The term does not include wear and tear occasioned by normal use.
   PRIVILEGE. An immunity, license, or right conferred by law, or bestowed by
express or implied grant, or arising out of status, position, office, or
relationship, or growing out of necessity.
   PROPERTY.
      (1)   Any property, real or personal, tangible or intangible, and any
interest or license in that property. The term includes but is not limited to
cable television service, other telecommunications service, telecommunications
devices, information service, computers, data, computer software, financial
instruments associated with computers, other documents associated with
computers, or copies of the documents, whether in machine or human-readable
form, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, patents, and property protected by
a trademark, copyright or patent. “Financial instruments associated with
computers” include but are not limited to checks, drafts, warrants, money
orders, notes of indebtedness, certificates of deposit, letters of credit,
bills of credit or debit cards, financial transaction authorization mechanisms,
marketable securities, or any computer system representations of any of them.
      (2)   As used in this definition, “trade secret” has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 1333.61, and “telecommunications service” and “information service”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (3)   As used in this definition and in the definition of “contraband” in
this section, “cable television service”, “computer”, “computer network”,
“computer software”, “computer system”, “data”, and “telecommunications device”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   REPEAT OFFENDER. A person who has a history of persistent criminal activity
and whose character and condition reveal a substantial risk that he or she will
commit another offense. It is prima facie evidence that a person is a repeat
offender if any of the following applies:
      (1)   Having been convicted of one or more offenses of violence, as
defined in R.C. § 2901.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent offense of
violence;
      (2)   Having been convicted of one or more sexually oriented offenses, as
defined in R.C. § 2950.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent sexually oriented
offense;
      (3)   Having been convicted of one or more theft offenses, as defined in
R.C. § 2913.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for one or more
of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent theft offense;
      (4)   Having been convicted of one or more felony drug abuse offenses, as
defined in R.C. § 2925.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent felony drug abuse
offense;
      (5)   Having been convicted of two or more felonies, and having been
imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such offense, he or she commits a
subsequent offense;
      (6)   Having been convicted of three or more offenses of any type or
degree other than traffic offenses, alcoholic intoxication offenses, or minor
misdemeanors, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such
offense, he or she commits a subsequent offense.
   RISK. A significant possibility, as contrasted with a remote possibility,
that a certain result may occur or that certain circumstances may exist.
   SCHOOL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL ACTIVITY. Any activity held under the auspices of a board of
education of a city, local, exempted village, joint vocational, or cooperative
education school district; a governing authority of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314; a governing board of an educational
service center; or the governing body of a nonpublic school for which the State
Board of Education prescribes minimum standards under R.C. § 3301.07.
   SCHOOL BUILDING. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL BUS. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   SCHOOL PREMISES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL SAFETY ZONE. Consists of a school, school building, school premises,
school activity, and school bus.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any mental illness or condition of such gravity as would normally
require hospitalization or prolonged psychiatric treatment;
      (2)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death;
      (3)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent incapacity, whether
partial or total, or that involves some temporary, substantial incapacity;
      (4)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent disfigurement, or
that involves some temporary, serious disfigurement;
      (5)   Any physical harm that involves acute pain of such duration as to
result in substantial suffering, or that involves any degree of prolonged or
intractable pain.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY. Any physical harm to property that does
either of the following:
      (1)   Results in substantial loss to the value of the property, or
requires a substantial amount of time, effort, or money to repair or replace;
      (2)   Temporarily prevents the use or enjoyment of the property, or
substantially interferes with its use or enjoyment for an extended period of
time.
   SUBSTANTIAL RISK. A strong possibility, as contrasted with a remote or
significant possibility, that a certain result may occur or that certain
circumstances may exist.
(R.C. §§ 2901.01, 2935.36(E)) (Rev. 2020)
§ 130.03 CLASSIFICATION OF OFFENSES.
   As used in this Title:
   (A)   Offenses include misdemeanors of the first, second, third, and fourth
degree, minor misdemeanors, and offenses not specifically classified.
   (B)   Regardless of the penalty that may be imposed, any offense
specifically classified as a misdemeanor is a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Any offense not specifically classified is a misdemeanor if
imprisonment for not more than one year may be imposed as a penalty.
   (D)   Any offense not specifically classified is a minor misdemeanor if the
only penalty that may be imposed is one of the following:
      (1)   For an offense committed prior to January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding $100;
      (2)   For an offense committed on or after January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding $150, community service under R.C. § 2929.27(D), or a financial
sanction other than a fine under R.C. § 2929.28.
(R.C. § 2901.02) (Rev. 2012)
§ 130.04 COMMON LAW OFFENSES ABROGATED.
   (A)   No conduct constitutes a criminal offense against the municipality
unless it is defined as an offense in this code.
   (B)   An offense is defined when one or more sections of this code state a
positive prohibition or enjoin a specific duty, and provide a penalty for
violation of such prohibition or failure to meet such duty.
   (C)   This section does not affect the power of a court to punish for
contempt or to employ any sanction authorized by law to enforce an order, civil
judgment or decree.
(R.C. § 2901.03)
§ 130.05 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) or (D) of this section,
sections of this code defining offenses or penalties shall be strictly
construed against the municipality and liberally construed in favor of the
accused.
   (B)   Rules of criminal procedure and sections of this code providing for
criminal procedure shall be construed so as to effect the fair, impartial,
speedy, and sure administration of justice.
   (C)   Any provision of a section of this code that refers to a previous
conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of a section of this code, the
Ohio Revised Code or a division of a section of this code or the Ohio Revised
Code shall be construed to also refer to a previous conviction of or plea of
guilty to a substantially equivalent offense under an existing or former law of
this municipality, state, another state, or the United States or under an
existing or former municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Any provision of this code that refers to a section, or to a division
of a section, of this code that defines or specifies a criminal offense shall
be construed to also refer to an existing or former law of this state, another
state, or the United States, to an existing or former municipal ordinance, or
to an existing or former division of any such existing or former law or
ordinance that defines or specifies, or that defined or specified, a
substantially equivalent offense.
(R.C. § 2901.04) (Rev. 2005)
§ 130.06 LIMITATION OF CRIMINAL PROSECUTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2), (A)(3) or (A)(4) of this
section or as otherwise provided in this section, a prosecution shall be barred
unless it is commenced within the following periods after an offense is
committed:
         (a)   For a felony, six years;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor other than a minor misdemeanor, two years;
         (c)   For a minor misdemeanor, six months.
      (2)   There is no period of limitation for the prosecution of a violation
of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (B) through (J) of this
section, a prosecution of any of the following offenses shall be barred unless
it is commenced within 20 years after the offense is committed:
         (a)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.03, 2903.04, 2905.01, 2905.32,
2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.21, 2909.02, 2909.22, 2909.23, 2909.24, 2909.26,
2909.27, 2909.28, 2909.29, 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12, or 2917.02, a
violation of R.C. § 2903.11 or 2903.12 if the victim is a peace officer, a
violation of R.C. § 2903.13 that is a felony, or a violation of former R.C. §
2907.12.
         (b)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing a violation set forth in division (A)(3)(a) of this section.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (D) to (L) of this
section, a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 or a
conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in committing a
violation of either section shall be barred unless it is commenced within 25
years after the offense is committed.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) of this section,
if the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this
section has expired, prosecution shall be commenced for an offense of which an
element is fraud or breach of fiduciary duty within one year after discovery of
the offense either by an aggrieved person or by the aggrieved person’s legal
representative who is not a party to the offense.
      (2)   If the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)(3)
of this section has expired, prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 2913.49
shall be commenced within five years after discovery of the offense either by
an aggrieved person or the aggrieved person’s legal representative who is not a
party to the offense.
   (C)   (1)   If the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)
(3) of this section has expired, prosecution shall be commenced for the
following offenses during the following specified periods of time:
         (a)   For an offense involving misconduct in office by a public
servant at any time while the accused remains a public servant, or within two
years thereafter;
         (b)   For an offense by a person who is not a public servant but whose
offense is directly related to the misconduct in office of a public servant, at
any time while that public servant remains a public servant, or within two
years thereafter.
      (2)   As used in this division:
         OFFENSE IS DIRECTLY RELATED TO THE MISCONDUCT IN OFFICE OF A PUBLIC
SERVANT. The phrase includes but is not limited to a violation of R.C. §
101.71, 101.91, 121.61 or 2921.13, 102.03(F) or (H), 2921.02(A), 2921.43(A) or
(B), or 3517.13(F) or (G), that is directly related to an offense involving
misconduct in office of a public servant, or a violation of any municipal
ordinance substantially equivalent to those Ohio Revised Code sections listed
in this division (C)(2).
         PUBLIC SERVANT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.01.
   (D)   (1)   If a DNA record made in connection with the criminal
investigation of the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 is
determined to match another DNA record that is of an identifiable person and if
the time of the determination is later than 25 years after the offense is
committed, prosecution of that person for a violation of the section may be
commenced within five years after the determination is complete.
      (2)   If a DNA record made in connection with the criminal investigation
of the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 is determined to
match another DNA record that is of an identifiable person and if the time of
the determination is within 25 years after the offense is committed,
prosecution of that person for a violation of the section may be commenced
within the longer of 25 years after the offense is committed or five years
after the determination is complete.
      (3)   As used in this division, DNA RECORD has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 109.573.
   (E)   An offense is committed when every element of the offense occurs. In
the case of an offense of which an element is a continuing course of conduct,
the period of limitation does not begin to run until such course of conduct or
the accused’s accountability for it terminates, whichever occurs first.
   (F)   A prosecution is commenced on the date an indictment is returned or an
information filed, or on the date a lawful arrest without a warrant is made, or
on the date a warrant, summons, citation, or other process is issued, whichever
occurs first. A prosecution is not commenced by the return of an indictment or
the filing of an information unless reasonable diligence is exercised to issue
and execute process on the same. A prosecution is not commenced upon issuance
of a warrant, summons, citation, or other process unless reasonable diligence
is exercised to execute the same.
   (G)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the corpus
delicti remains undiscovered.
   (H)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the
accused purposely avoids prosecution. Proof that the accused departed this
municipality or conceals the accused’s identity or whereabouts is prima facie
evidence of the accused’s purpose to avoid prosecution.
   (I)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time a prosecution
against the accused based on the same conduct is pending in this state, even
though the indictment, information, or process that commenced the prosecution
is quashed or the proceedings on the indictment, information, or process are
set aside or reversed on appeal.
   (J)   The period of limitation for a violation of this Title XIII or Title
XXIX of the Ohio Revised Code that involves a physical or mental wound, injury,
disability, or condition of a nature that reasonably indicates abuse or neglect
of a child under 18 years of age or of a child with a developmental disability
or physical impairment under 21 years of age shall not begin to run until
either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The victim of the offense reaches the age of majority.
      (2)   A public children services agency, or a municipal or county peace
officer that is not the parent or guardian of the child, in the county in which
the child resides or in which the abuse or neglect is occurring or has occurred
has been notified that abuse or neglect is known, suspected, or believed to
have occurred.
   (K)   As used in this section, PEACE OFFICER has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2935.01.
   (L)   The amendments to divisions (A) and (D) of this section apply to a
violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 committed on and after July 16, 2015,
and apply to a violation of either of those sections committed prior to July
16, 2015, if prosecution for that violation was not barred under this section
as it existed on July 15, 2015.
(R.C. § 2901.13) (Rev. 2017)
Statutory reference:
Limitation for income tax violations, see R.C. § 718.12
§ 130.07 REQUIREMENTS FOR CRIMINAL LIABILITY; VOLUNTARY INTOXICATION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, a person is not
guilty of an offense unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person’s liability is based on conduct that includes either a
voluntary act, or an omission to perform an act or duty that the person is
capable of performing;
      (2)   The person has the requisite degree of culpability for each element
as to which a culpable mental state is specified by the language defining the
offense.
   (B)   When the language defining an offense does not specify any degree of
culpability, and plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict criminal
liability for the conduct described in the section, then culpability is not
required for a person to be guilty of the offense. The fact that one division
of a section plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict liability for an
offense defined in that division does not by itself plainly indicate a purpose
to impose strict criminal liability for an offense defined in other divisions
of the section that do not specify a degree of culpability.
   (C)   (1)   When language defining an element of an offense that is related
to knowledge or intent or to which mens rea could fairly be applied neither
specifies culpability nor plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict
liability, the element of the offense is established only if a person acts
recklessly.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to offenses defined
in R.C. Title XLV.
      (3)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not relieve the prosecution of
the burden of proving the culpable mental state required by any definition
incorporated into the offense.
   (D)   Voluntary intoxication may not be taken into consideration in
determining the existence of a mental state that is an element of a criminal
offense. Voluntary intoxication does not relieve a person of a duty to act if
failure to act constitutes a criminal offense. Evidence that a person was
voluntarily intoxicated may be admissible to show whether or not the person was
physically capable of performing the act with which the person is charged.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      CULPABILITY. Means purpose, knowledge, recklessness, or negligence, as
defined in R.C. § 2901.22.
      INTOXICATION. Includes but is not limited to intoxication resulting from
the ingestion of alcohol, a drug, or alcohol and a drug.
      INVOLUNTARY ACTS. Means reflexes, convulsions, body movements during
unconsciousness or sleep, and body movements that are not otherwise a product
of the actor’s volition are involuntary acts.
      POSSESSION. Means a voluntary act if the possessor knowingly procured or
received the thing possessed, or was aware of the possessor’s control of the
thing possessed for a sufficient time to have ended possession.
(R.C. § 2901.21) (Rev. 2016)
§ 130.08 CULPABLE MENTAL STATES.
   (A)   A person acts purposely when it is the person’s specific intention to
cause a certain result, or, when the gist of the offense is a prohibition
against conduct of a certain nature, regardless of what the offender intends to
accomplish thereby, it is the offender’s specific intention to engage in
conduct of that nature.
   (B)   A person acts knowingly, regardless of purpose, when the person is
aware that the person’s conduct will probably cause a certain result or will
probably be of a certain nature. A person has knowledge of circumstances when
the person is aware that such circumstances probably exist. When knowledge of
the existence of a particular fact is an element of an offense, such knowledge
is established if a person subjectively believes that there is a high
probability of its existence and fails to make inquiry or acts with a conscious
purpose to avoid learning the fact.
   (C)   A person acts recklessly when, with heedless indifference to the
consequences, the person disregards a substantial and unjustifiable risk that
the person’s conduct is likely to cause a certain result or is likely to be of
a certain nature. A person is reckless with respect to circumstances when, with
heedless indifference to the consequences, the person disregards a substantial
and unjustifiable risk that such circumstances are likely to exist.
   (D)   A person acts negligently when, because of a substantial lapse from
due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that the person’s
conduct may cause a certain result or may be of a certain nature. A person is
negligent with respect to circumstances when, because of a substantial lapse
from due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that such
circumstances may exist.
   (E)   When the section defining an offense provides that negligence suffices
to establish an element thereof, then recklessness, knowledge, or purpose is
also sufficient culpability for such element. When recklessness suffices to
establish an element of an offense, then knowledge or purpose is also
sufficient culpability for such element. When knowledge suffices to establish
an element of an offense, then purpose is also sufficient culpability for such
element.
(R.C. § 2901.22) (Rev. 2016)
§ 130.09 ORGANIZATIONAL CRIMINAL LIABILITY.
   (A)   An organization may be convicted of an offense under any of the
following circumstances:
      (1)   The offense is a minor misdemeanor committed by an officer, agent,
or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s office or employment, except that if the
section defining the offense designates the officers, agents, or employees for
whose conduct the organization is accountable or the circumstances under which
it is accountable, those provisions shall apply.
      (2)   A purpose to impose organizational liability plainly appears in the
section defining the offense, and the offense is committed by an officer,
agent, or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the
scope of the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s office or employment, except
that if the section defining the offense designates the officers, agents, or
employees for whose conduct the organization is accountable or the
circumstances under which it is accountable, those provisions shall apply.
      (3)   The offense consists of an omission to discharge a specific duty
imposed by law on the organization.
      (4)   If, acting with the kind of culpability otherwise required for the
commission of the offense, its commission was authorized, requested, commanded,
tolerated, or performed by the board of directors, trustees, partners, or by a
high managerial officer, agent, or employee acting in behalf of the
organization and within the scope of such a board’s or person’s office or
employment.
   (B)   If strict liability is imposed for the commission of an offense, a
purpose to impose organizational liability shall be presumed, unless the
contrary plainly appears.
   (C)   In a prosecution of an organization for an offense other than one for
which strict liability is imposed, it is a defense that the high managerial
officer, agent, or employee having supervisory responsibility over the subject
matter of the offense exercised due diligence to prevent its commission. This
defense is not available if it plainly appears inconsistent with the purpose of
the section defining the offense.
   (D)   As used in this section, ORGANIZATION means a corporation for profit
or not for profit, partnership, limited partnership, joint venture,
unincorporated nonprofit association, estate, trust, or other commercial or
legal entity. The term does not include an entity organized as or by a
governmental agency for the execution of a governmental program.
(R.C. § 2901.23) (Rev. 2013)
§ 130.10 PERSONAL ACCOUNTABILITY FOR ORGANIZATIONAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   An officer, agent, or employee of an organization, as defined in R.C.
§ 2901.23, may be prosecuted for an offense committed by such organization, if
he or she acts with the kind of culpability required for the commission of the
offense, and any of the following apply:
      (1)   In the name of the organization or in its behalf, he or she engages
in conduct constituting the offense, or causes another to engage in such
conduct, or tolerates such conduct when it is of a type for which he or she has
direct responsibility;
      (2)   He or she has primary responsibility to discharge a duty imposed on
the organization by law, and such duty is not discharged.
   (B)   When a person is convicted of an offense by reason of this section, he
or she is subject to the same penalty as if he or she had acted in his or her
own behalf.
(R.C. § 2901.24) (Rev. 1999)
§ 130.11 ATTEMPT.
   (A)   No person, purposely or knowingly, and when purpose or knowledge is
sufficient culpability for the commission of an offense, shall engage in
conduct that, if successful, would constitute or result in the offense.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that, in retrospect,
commission of the offense that was the object of the attempt was either
factually or legally impossible under the attendant circumstances, if that
offense could have been committed had the attendant circumstances been as the
actor believed them to be.
   (C)   No person who is convicted of committing a specific offense, of
complicity in the commission of an offense, or of conspiracy to commit an
offense, shall be convicted of an attempt to commit the same offense in
violation of this section.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
actor abandoned his or her effort to commit the offense or otherwise prevented
its commission, under circumstances manifesting a complete and voluntary
renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an attempt to commit an
offense. An attempt to commit aggravated murder, murder, or an offense for
which the maximum penalty is imprisonment for life is a felony of the first
degree, to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to commit a
drug abuse offense for which the penalty is determined by the amount or number
of unit doses of the controlled substance involved in the drug abuse offense is
an offense of the same degree as the drug abuse offense attempted would be if
that drug abuse offense had been committed and had involved an amount or number
of unit doses of the controlled substance that is within the next lower range
of controlled substance amounts than was involved in the attempt. An attempt to
commit any other offense is an offense of the next lesser degree than the
offense attempted. In the case of an attempt to commit an offense other than a
violation of R.C. Chapter 3734 that is not specifically classified, an attempt
is a misdemeanor of the first degree if the offense attempted is a felony, and
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the offense attempted is a misdemeanor.
In the case of an attempt to commit a violation of any provision of R.C.
Chapter 3734, other than R.C. § 3734.18, that relates to hazardous wastes, an
attempt is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to
commit a minor misdemeanor, or to engage in conspiracy, is not an offense under
this section.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
(R.C. § 2923.02) (Rev. 2020)
Statutory reference:
Conspiracy, see R.C. § 2923.01
Solid and hazardous wastes, see R.C. Chapter 3734
§ 130.12 COMPLICITY.
   (A)   No person, acting with the kind of culpability required for the
commission of an offense, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Solicit or procure another to commit the offense;
      (2)   Aid or abet another in committing the offense;
      (3)   Conspire with another to commit the offense in violation of R.C. §
2923.01;
      (4)   Cause an innocent or irresponsible person to commit the offense.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that no person with
whom the accused was in complicity has been convicted as a principal offender.
   (C)   No person shall be convicted of complicity under this section unless
an offense is actually committed, but a person may be convicted of complicity
in an attempt to commit an offense in violation of R.C. § 2923.02 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   If an alleged accomplice of the defendant testifies against the
defendant in a case in which the defendant is charged with complicity in the
commission of or an attempt to commit an offense, an attempt to commit an
offense, or an offense, the court shall charge the jury in accordance with R.C.
§ 2923.03(D).
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that,
prior to the commission of or attempt to commit the offense, the actor
terminated his or her complicity, under circumstances manifesting a complete
and voluntary renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of complicity in the
commission of an offense, and shall be prosecuted and punished as if he or she
were a principal offender. A charge of complicity may be stated in terms of
this section, or in terms of the principal offense.
(R.C. § 2923.03) (Rev. 1999)
Statutory reference:
Conspiracy, see R.C. § 2923.01
§ 130.13 PRESUMPTION OF INNOCENCE; PROOF OF OFFENSE; AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE.
   (A)   Every person accused of an offense is presumed innocent until proven
guilty beyond a reasonable doubt, and the burden of proof for all elements of
the offense is upon the prosecution. The burden of going forward with the
evidence of an affirmative defense, and the burden of proof by a preponderance
of the evidence, for an affirmative defense other than self-defense, defense of
another, or defense of the accused’s residence presented as described in
division (B)(1) of this section, is upon the accused.
   (B)   (1)   A person is allowed to act in self-defense, defense of another,
or defense of that person’s residence. If, at the trial of a person who is
accused of an offense that involved the person’s use of force against another,
there is evidence presented that tends to support that the accused person used
the force in self-defense, defense of another, or defense of that person’s
residence, the prosecution must prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the
accused person did not use the force in self-defense, defense of another, or
defense of that person’s residence, as the case may be.
      (2)   Subject to division (B)(3) of this section, a person is presumed to
have acted in self-defense or defense of another when using defensive force
that is intended or likely to cause death or great bodily harm to another if
the person against whom the defensive force is used is in the process of
unlawfully and without privilege to do so entering, or has unlawfully and
without privilege to do so entered, the residence or vehicle occupied by the
person using the defensive force.
      (3)   The presumption set forth in division (B)(2) of this section does
not apply if either of the following is true:
         (a)   The person against whom the defensive force is used has a right
to be in, or is a lawful resident of, the residence or vehicle.
         (b)   The person who uses the defensive force uses it while in a
residence or vehicle and the person is unlawfully, and without privilege to be,
in that residence or vehicle.
      (4)   The presumption set forth in division (B)(2) of this section is a
rebuttable presumption and may be rebutted by a preponderance of the evidence,
provided that the prosecution’s burden of proof remains proof beyond a
reasonable doubt as described in divisions (A) and (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   As part of its charge to the jury in a criminal case, the court shall
read the definitions of “reasonable doubt” and “proof beyond a reasonable
doubt”, contained in division (E) of this section.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE. An affirmative defense is either of the following:
         (a)   A defense expressly designated as affirmative;
         (b)   A defense involving an excuse or justification peculiarly within
the knowledge of the accused, on which the accused can fairly be required to
adduce supporting evidence.
      DWELLING. Means a building or conveyance of any kind that has a roof over
it and that is designed to be occupied by people lodging in the building or
conveyance at night, regardless of whether the building or conveyance is
temporary or permanent or is mobile or immobile. As used in this division, a
building or conveyance includes but is not limited to an attached porch, and a
building or conveyance with a roof over it includes but is not limited to a
tent.
      RESIDENCE. Means a dwelling in which a person resides either temporarily
or permanently or is visiting as a guest.
      VEHICLE. Means a conveyance of any kind, whether or not motorized, that
is designed to transport people or property.
   (E)   “Reasonable doubt” is present when the jurors, after they have
carefully considered and compared all the evidence, cannot say they are firmly
convinced of the truth of the charge. It is a doubt based on reasonable and
common sense. Reasonable doubt is not mere possible doubt, because everything
relating to human affairs or depending on moral evidence is open to some
possible or imaginary doubt. “Proof beyond a reasonable doubt” is proof of such
character that an ordinary person would be willing to rely and act upon it in
the most important of the person's own affairs.
(R.C. § 2901.05) (Rev. 2022)
§ 130.14 BATTERED WOMAN SYNDROME.
   (A)   The municipality hereby declares that it recognizes both of the
following, in relation to the “battered woman syndrome”: that the syndrome
currently is a matter of commonly accepted scientific knowledge, and that the
subject matter and details of the syndrome are not within the general
understanding or experience of a person who is a member of the general populace
and are not within the field of common knowledge.
   (B)   If a person is charged with an offense involving the use of force
against another and the person, as a defense to the offense charged, raises the
affirmative defense of self defense, the person may introduce expert testimony
of the “battered woman syndrome” and expert testimony that the person suffered
from that syndrome as evidence to establish the requisite belief of an imminent
danger of death or great bodily harm that is necessary, as an element of the
affirmative defense, to justify the person’s use of force in question. The
introduction of any expert testimony under this division shall be in accordance
with the Ohio Rules of Evidence.
(R.C. § 2901.06)
§ 130.15 DELINQUENCY ADJUDICATIONS DEEMED CONVICTIONS.
   (A)   If a person is alleged to have committed an offense and if the person
previously has been adjudicated a delinquent child or juvenile traffic offender
for a violation of a law or ordinance, except as provided in division (B) of
this section, the adjudication as a delinquent child or as a juvenile traffic
offender is a conviction for a violation of the law for purposes of determining
the offense with which the person should be charged and, if the person is
convicted of or pleads guilty to an offense, the sentence to be imposed upon
the person relative to the conviction or guilty plea.
   (B)   A previous adjudication of a person as a delinquent child or juvenile
traffic offender for a violation of a law or ordinance is not a conviction for
a violation of the law or ordinance for purposes of determining any of the
following:
      (1)   Whether the person is a repeat violent offender, as defined in R.C.
§ 2929.01, or whether the person should be sentenced as a repeat violent
offender under R.C. § 2929.14(B)(2) and R.C. § 2941.149;
      (2)    Whether the person is a violent career criminal as defined in R.C.
§ 2923.132, whether the person has committed unlawful use of a weapon by a
violent career criminal in violation of R.C. § 2923.132 or should be sentenced
for that offense under that section, or whether the person should be sentenced
under R.C. § 2929.14(K) as a violent career criminal who had a firearm on or
about the person’s person or under the person’s control while committing a
violent felony offense and displayed or brandished the firearm, indicated that
the offender possessed a firearm, or used the firearm to facilitate the
offense.
(R.C. § 2901.08) (Rev. 2017)
§ 130.16 CRIMINAL LAW JURISDICTION.
   (A)   A person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in this
municipality if any of the following occur:
      (1)   The person commits an offense under the laws of this municipality,
any element of which takes place in this municipality;
      (2)   While in this municipality, the person attempts to commit, or is
guilty of complicity in the commission of, an offense in another jurisdiction,
which offense is an offense under both the laws of this municipality and the
other jurisdiction, or, while in this municipality, the person conspires to
commit an offense in another jurisdiction, which offense is an offense under
both the laws of this municipality and the other jurisdiction, and a
substantial overt act in furtherance of the conspiracy is undertaken in this
municipality by the person or another person involved in the conspiracy,
subsequent to the person’s entrance into the conspiracy. In any case in which a
person attempts to commit, is guilty of complicity in the commission of, or
conspires to commit an offense in another jurisdiction as described in this
division, the person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in this
municipality for the attempt, complicity, or conspiracy, and for any resulting
offense that is committed or completed in the other jurisdiction;
      (3)   While out of this municipality, the person conspires or attempts to
commit, or is guilty of complicity in the commission of, an offense in this
municipality;
      (4)   While out of this municipality, the person omits to perform a legal
duty imposed by the laws of this municipality, which omission affects a
legitimate interest of the municipality in protecting, governing or regulating
any person, property, thing, transaction, or activity in this municipality;
      (5)   While out of this municipality, the person unlawfully takes or
retains property and subsequently brings any of the unlawfully taken or
retained property into this municipality;
      (6)   While out of this municipality, the person unlawfully takes or
entices another person and subsequently brings the other person into this
municipality;
      (7)   The person, by means of a computer, computer system, computer
network, telecommunication, telecommunications device, telecommunications
service, or information service, causes or knowingly permits any writing, data,
image or other telecommunication to be disseminated or transmitted into this
municipality in violation of the law of this state or municipality.
   (B)   In homicide, the element referred to in division (A)(1) of this
section includes the act that causes death, the physical contact that causes
death, the death itself, or any other element that is set forth in the offense
in question. If any part of the body of a homicide victim is found in this
municipality, the death is presumed to have occurred within this municipality.
   (C)   (1)   This municipality includes the land and water within its
boundaries and the air space above that land and water, with respect to which
this municipality has either exclusive or concurrent legislative jurisdiction.
Where the boundary between this municipality and another jurisdiction is
disputed, the disputed territory is conclusively presumed to be within this
municipality for purposes of this section.
      (2)   The courts of common pleas of Adams, Athens, Belmont, Brown,
Clermont, Columbiana, Gallia, Hamilton, Jefferson, Lawrence, Meigs, Monroe,
Scioto, and Washington counties have jurisdiction beyond the north or northwest
shore of the Ohio River extending to the opposite shore line, between the
extended boundary lines of any adjacent counties or adjacent state. Each of
those courts of common pleas has concurrent jurisdiction on the Ohio River with
any adjacent court of common pleas that borders on that river and with any
court of Kentucky or of West Virginia that borders on the Ohio River and that
has jurisdiction on the Ohio River under the law of Kentucky or the law of West
Virginia, whichever is applicable, or under federal law.
   (D)   When an offense is committed under the laws of this municipality, and
it appears beyond a reasonable doubt that the offense or any element of the
offense took place either in this municipality or in another jurisdiction or
jurisdictions, but it cannot reasonably be determined in which it took place,
the offense or element is conclusively presumed to have taken place in this
municipality for purposes of this section.
   (E)   When a person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in
this municipality for an offense committed or completed outside this
municipality, the person is subject to all specifications for that offense that
would be applicable if the offense had been committed within this municipality.
   (F)   Any act, conduct, or element that is a basis of a person being subject
under this section to criminal prosecution and punishment in this municipality
need not be committed personally by the person as long as it is committed by
another person who is in complicity or conspiracy with the person.
   (G)   This section shall be liberally construed, consistent with
constitutional limitations, to allow this municipality the broadest possible
jurisdiction over offenses and persons committing offenses in, or affecting,
this municipality.
   (H)   For purposes of division (A)(2) of this section, an overt act is
substantial when it is of a character that manifests a purpose on the part of
the actor that the object of the conspiracy should be completed.
   (I)   As used in this section, COMPUTER, COMPUTER SYSTEM, COMPUTER NETWORK,
INFORMATION SERVICE, TELECOMMUNICATION, TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE,
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE, DATA and WRITING have the same meanings as in R.C.
§ 2913.01.
(R.C. § 2901.11) (Rev. 2006)
Statutory reference:
State criminal law jurisdiction, see R.C. § 2901.11
§ 130.17 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED OR FORFEITED PROPERTY HELD BY POLICE
DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Safekeeping of property in custody.
      (1)   (a)   Any property that has been lost, abandoned, stolen, seized
pursuant to a search warrant, or otherwise lawfully seized or forfeited and
that is in the custody of the Police Department shall be kept safely by the
Police Department, pending the time it no longer is needed as evidence or for
another lawful purpose, and shall be disposed of pursuant to this section or
R.C. §§ 2981.12 and 2981.13.
         (b)   This section does not apply to the custody and disposal of any
of the following:
            1.   Vehicles subject to forfeiture under R.C. Title 45, except as
provided in division (B)(1)(f) of this section;
            2.   Abandoned junk motor vehicles or other property of negligible
value;
            3.   Property held by a department of rehabilitation and correction
institution that is unclaimed, that does not have an identified owner, that the
owner agrees to dispose of, or that is identified by the department as having
little value;
            4.   Animals taken, and devices used in unlawfully taking animals,
under R.C. § 1531.20;
            5.   Controlled substances sold by a peace officer in the
performance of the officer’s official duties under R.C. § 3719.141;
            6.   Property recovered by a township law enforcement agency under
R.C. §§ 505.105 to 505.109;
            7.   Property held and disposed of under an ordinance of the
municipality or under R.C. §§ 737.29 to 737.33, except that if the municipality
has received notice of a citizens’ reward program as provided in division (B)
(5) of this section and disposes of property under an ordinance shall pay 25%
of any moneys acquired from any sale or auction to the citizens’ reward
program.
      (2)   (a)   The Police Department shall adopt and comply with a written
internal control policy that does all of the following:
            1.   Provides for keeping detailed records as to the amount of
property acquired by the Police Department and the date property was acquired;
            2.   Provides for keeping detailed records of the disposition of
the property, which shall include but not be limited to both of the following:
               a.   The manner in which it was disposed, the date of
disposition, detailed financial records concerning any property sold, and the
name of any person who received the property. The record shall not identify or
enable identification of the individual officer who seized any item of
property.
               b.   An itemized list of the specific expenditures made with
amounts that are gained from the sale of the property and that are retained by
the agency, including the specific amount expended on each expenditure, except
that the policy shall not provide for or permit the identification of any
specific expenditure that is made in an ongoing investigation.
            3.   Complies with R.C. § 2981.13 if the Police Department has a
Law Enforcement Trust Fund or similar fund created under that section.
         (b)   The records kept under the internal control policy shall be open
to public inspection during the Police Department’s regular business hours. The
policy adopted under this section is a public record open for inspection under
R.C. § 149.43.
      (3)   The Police Department, with custody of property to be disposed of
under this section or R.C. §§ 2981.12 or 2981.13, shall make a reasonable
effort to locate persons entitled to possession of the property, to notify them
of when and where it may be claimed, and to return the property to them at the
earliest possible time. In the absence of evidence identifying persons entitled
to possession, it is sufficient notice to advertise in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county and to briefly describe the nature of the property in
custody and inviting persons to view and establish their right to it.
      (4)   As used in this section:
         CITIZENS’ REWARD PROGRAM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 9.92.
         LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. Includes correctional institutions.
         TOWNSHIP LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. Means an organized police department
of a township, a township police district, a joint police district, or the
office of a township constable.
(R.C. § 2981.11) (Rev. 2018)
   (B)   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property.
      (1)   Unclaimed or forfeited property in the custody of the Police
Department, other than property described in division (A)(1)(b) of this
section, shall be disposed of by order of any court of record that has
territorial jurisdiction over the municipality, as follows:
         (a)   Drugs shall be disposed of pursuant to R.C. § 3719.11 or placed
in the custody of the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States for
disposal or use for medical or scientific purposes under applicable federal
law.
         (b)   Firearms and dangerous ordnance suitable for police work may be
given to a law enforcement agency for that purpose. Firearms suitable for
sporting use or as museum pieces or collectors’ items may be sold at public
auction pursuant to division (B)(2) of this section. The Police Department may
sell other firearms and dangerous ordnance to a federally licensed firearms
dealer in a manner that the court considers proper. The Police Department shall
destroy any firearms or dangerous ordnance not given to a law enforcement
agency or sold or shall send them to the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation for destruction by the Bureau.
         (c)   Obscene materials shall be destroyed.
         (d)   Beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol seized from a person who
does not hold a permit issued under R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303 or otherwise
forfeited to the state for an offense under R.C. § 4301.45 or R.C. § 4301.53
shall be sold by the Division of Liquor Control if the Division determines that
it is fit for sale or shall be placed in the custody of the Investigations Unit
in the Ohio Department of Public Safety and be used for training relating to
law enforcement activities. The Ohio Department of Public Safety, with the
assistance of the Division of Liquor Control, shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 to provide for the distribution to state or local law
enforcement agencies upon their request. If any tax imposed under R.C. Title 43
has not been paid in relation to the beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol, any
moneys acquired from the sale shall first be used to pay the tax. All other
money collected under this division (B)(1)(d) shall be paid into the State
Treasury. Any beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol that the Division
determines to be unfit for sale shall be destroyed.
         (e)   Money received by an inmate of a correctional institution from
an unauthorized source or in an unauthorized manner shall be returned to the
sender, if known, or deposited in the Inmates’ Industrial and Entertainment
Fund of the institution if the sender is not known.
         (f)   1.   Any mobile instrumentality forfeited under R.C. Chapter
2981 may be given to the law enforcement agency that initially seized the
mobile instrumentality for use in performing its duties, if the agency wants
the mobile instrumentality. The agency shall take the mobile instrumentality
subject to any security interest or lien on the mobile instrumentality.
            2.   Vehicles and vehicle parts forfeited under R.C. §§ 4549.61 to
4549.63 may be given to a law enforcement agency for use in performing its
duties. Those parts may be incorporated into any other official vehicle. Parts
that do not bear vehicle identification numbers or derivatives of them may be
sold or disposed of as provided by rules of the Director of Public Safety.
Parts from which a vehicle identification number or derivative of it has been
removed, defaced, covered, altered, or destroyed and that are not suitable for
police work or incorporation into an official vehicle shall be destroyed and
sold as junk or scrap.
         (g)   Computers, computer networks, computer systems, and computer
software suitable for police work may be given to a law enforcement agency for
that purpose or disposed of under division (B)(2) of this section.
         (h)   Money seized in connection with a violation of R.C. § 2905.32,
2907.21, or 2907.22 shall be deposited in the Victims of Human Trafficking Fund
created by R.C. § 5101.87.
      (2)   Unclaimed or forfeited property that is not described in division
(B)(1) of this section or division (A)(1)(b) of this section, with court
approval, may be used by the law enforcement agency in possession of it. If it
is not used by the agency, it may be sold without appraisal at a public auction
to the highest bidder for cash or disposed of in another manner that the court
considers proper.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(5) of this section
and after compliance with division (B)(4) of this section when applicable, any
moneys acquired from the sale of property disposed of pursuant to this section
shall be placed in the General Revenue Fund of the state, or the General Fund
of the municipality.
      (4)   If the property was in the possession of the Police Department in
relation to a delinquent child proceeding in a juvenile court, 10% of any
moneys acquired from the sale of property disposed of under this section shall
be applied to one or more community addiction services providers, as defined in
R.C. § 5119.01. A juvenile court shall not specify a services provider, except
as provided in this division, unless the services provider is in the same
county as the court or in a contiguous county. If no services provider is
located in any of those counties, the juvenile court may specify a services
provider anywhere in Ohio. The remaining 90% of the proceeds or cash shall be
applied as provided in division (B)(3) of this section.
      (5)   (a)   If the Board of County Commissioners recognizes a citizens’
reward program under R.C. § 9.92, the Board shall notify the Police Department
of the recognition by filing a copy of its resolution conferring that
recognition with the Police Department. When the Board recognizes a citizens’
reward program and the county includes a part, but not all, of the territory of
the municipality, the Board shall so notify the Police Department of the
recognition of the citizens’ reward program only if the county contains the
highest percentage of the municipality’s population.
         (b)   Upon being so notified, the Police Department shall pay 25% of
any forfeited proceeds or cash derived from each sale of property disposed of
pursuant to this section to the citizens’ reward program for use exclusively to
pay rewards. No part of the funds may be used to pay expenses associated with
the program. If a citizens’ reward program that operates in more than one
county or in another state in addition to this state receives funds under this
section, the funds shall be used to pay rewards only for tips and information
to law enforcement agencies concerning offenses committed in the county from
which the funds were received.
      (6)   Any property forfeited under R.C. Chapter 2981 not be used to pay
any fine imposed upon a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty to an
underlying criminal offense or a different offense arising out of the same
facts and circumstances.
      (7)   Any moneys acquired from the sale of personal effects, tools, or
other property seized because the personal effects, tools, or other property
were used in the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2905.32, 2907.21, or
2907.22 or derived from the proceeds of the commission of a violation of R.C. §
2905.32, 2907.21, or 2907.22 and disposed of pursuant to this division (B)
shall be placed in the Victims of Human Trafficking Fund created by R.C. §
5101.87.
(R.C. § 2981.12) (Rev. 2016)
   (C)   Disposition of contraband, proceeds, or instrumentalities. Except as
otherwise provided in R.C. § 2981.13, property ordered forfeited as contraband,
proceeds, or an instrumentality pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2981 shall be disposed
of, used, or sold pursuant to division (B) of this section or R.C. § 2981.12.
If the property is to be sold under division (B) of this section or R.C. §
2981.12, the prosecutor shall cause notice of the proposed sale to be given in
accordance with law.
(R.C. § 2981.13(A)) (Rev. 2008)
Statutory reference:
Forfeiture of property generally, see R.C. Chapter 2981
§ 130.18 IMPOSING SENTENCE FOR MISDEMEANOR.
   (A)   (1)   Unless a mandatory jail term is required to be imposed by R.C. §
1547.99(G), 4510.14(B), or 4511.19(G), or any other provision of the Ohio
Revised Code, or any municipal ordinance, a court that imposes a sentence under
this chapter upon an offender for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor has
discretion to determine the most effective way to achieve the purposes and
principles of sentencing set forth in §
130.99(B).
      (2)   Unless a specific sanction is required to be imposed or is
precluded from being imposed by the section setting forth an offense or the
penalty for an offense or by any provision of §
130.99 or
133.99 of this code or R.C. §§ 2929.23 through 2929.28, a court that imposes a
sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor may impose on the offender any
sanction or combination of sanctions under §
130.99(C) through (G). The court shall not impose a sentence that imposes an
unnecessary burden on local government resources.
   (B)   (1)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, the
court shall consider all of the following factors:
         (a)   The nature and circumstances of the offense or offenses;
         (b)   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense
or offenses indicate that the offender has a history of persistent criminal
activity and that the offender’s character and condition reveal a substantial
risk that the offender will commit another offense;
         (c)   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense
or offenses indicate that the offender’s history, character, and condition
reveal a substantial risk that the offender will be a danger to others and that
the offender’s conduct has been characterized by a pattern of repetitive,
compulsive, or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to the
consequences;
         (d)   Whether the victim’s youth, age, disability, or other factor
made the victim particularly vulnerable to the offense or made the impact of
the offense more serious;
         (e)   Whether the offender is likely to commit future crimes in
general, in addition to the circumstances described in divisions (B)(1)(b) and
(B)(1)(c) of this section;
         (f)   Whether the offender has an emotional, mental, or physical
condition that is traceable to the offender’s service in the armed forces of
the United States and that was a contributing factor in the offender’s
commission of the offense or offenses;
         (g)   The offender’s military service record.
      (2)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, in
addition to complying with division (B)(1) of this section, the court may
consider any other factors that are relevant to achieving the purposes and
principles of sentencing set forth in §
130.99(B).
   (C)   Before imposing a jail term as a sentence for a misdemeanor, a court
shall consider the appropriateness of imposing a community control sanction or
a combination of community control sanctions under §
130.99(D), (E), (F), and (G). A court may impose the longest jail term
authorized under §
130.99(C) only upon offenders who commit the worst forms of the offense or upon
offenders whose conduct and response to prior sanctions for prior offenses
demonstrate that the imposition of the longest jail term is necessary to deter
the offender from committing a future crime.
   (D)   (1)   A sentencing court shall consider any relevant oral or written
statement made by the victim, the defendant, the defense attorney, or the
prosecuting authority regarding sentencing for a misdemeanor. This division
does not create any rights to notice other than those rights authorized by R.C.
Chapter 2930.
      (2)   At the time of sentencing for a misdemeanor or as soon as possible
after sentencing, the court shall notify the victim of the offense of the
victim’s right to file an application for an award of reparations pursuant to
R.C. §§ 2743.51 through 2743.72.
(R.C. § 2929.22) (Rev. 2014)
§ 130.19 MULTIPLE SENTENCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, R.C. § 2929.14(C),
or R.C. § 2971.03(D) or (E), a prison term, jail term, or sentence of
imprisonment shall be served concurrently with any other prison term, jail
term, or sentence of imprisonment imposed by a court of this municipality, this
state, another state, or the United States. Except as provided in division (B)
(2) of this section, a jail term or sentence of imprisonment for misdemeanor
shall be served concurrently with a prison term or sentence of imprisonment for
felony served in a state or federal correctional institution.
   (B)   (1)   A jail term or sentence of imprisonment for a misdemeanor shall
be served consecutively to any other prison term, jail term, or sentence of
imprisonment when the trial court specifies that it is to be served
consecutively or when it is imposed for a misdemeanor violation of R.C. §
2907.322, 2921.34 or 2923.131. When consecutive sentences are imposed for
misdemeanors under this division, the term to be served is the aggregate of the
consecutive terms imposed, except that the aggregate term to be served shall
not exceed 18 months.
      (2)   A jail term or sentence of imprisonment imposed for a misdemeanor
violation of R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.14, 4510.16, 4510.21, or 4511.19, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be served consecutively to
a prison term that is imposed for a felony violation of R.C. § 2903.06,
2903.07, 2903.08 or 4511.19 or a felony violation of R.C. § 2903.04 involving
the operation of a motor vehicle by the offender and that is served in a state
correctional institution when the trial court specifies that it is to be served
consecutively. When consecutive jail terms or sentences of imprisonment and
prison terms are imposed for one or more misdemeanors and one or more felonies
under this division, the term to be served is the aggregate of the consecutive
terms imposed, and the offender shall serve all terms imposed for a felony
before serving any term imposed for a misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2929.41) (Rev. 2013)
§ 130.20 APPREHENSION, DETENTION, OR ARREST OF PERSON ON BOND.
   (A)   No person, other than a law enforcement officer, shall apprehend,
detain, or arrest a principal on bond, wherever issued, unless that person
meets all of the following criteria:
      (1)   The person is any of the following:
         (a)   Qualified, licensed, and appointed as a surety bail bond agent
under R.C. §§ 3905.83 through 3905.95;
         (b)   Licensed as a surety bail bond agent by the state where the bond
was written;
         (c)   Licensed as a private investigator under R.C. Chapter 4749;
         (d)   Licensed as a private investigator by the state where the bond
was written;
         (e)   An off-duty peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 2921.51.
      (2)   The person, prior to apprehending, detaining, or arresting the
principal, has entered into a written contract with the surety or with a
licensed surety bail bond agent appointed by the surety, which contract sets
forth the name of the principal who is to be apprehended, detained, or
arrested. For purposes of this division (A)(2), SURETY has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 3905.83.
      (3)   The person, prior to apprehending, detaining, or arresting the
principal, has notified the local law enforcement agency having jurisdiction
over the area in which such activities will be performed and has provided any
form or identification or other information requested by the law enforcement
agency.
   (B)   No person shall represent the person’s self to be a bail enforcement
agent or bounty hunter, or claim any similar title, in this municipality.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal bail bond agent
practices.
      (1)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of division (A) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of division (B) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.27) (Rev. 2001)
§ 130.21 SELF DEFENSE: LIMITATIONS ON DUTY TO RETREAT PRIOR TO USING FORCE.
   (A)   As used in this section, RESIDENCE has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2901.05.
   (B)   For purposes of any section of this code that sets forth a criminal
offense, a person has no duty to retreat before using force in self-defense,
defense of another, or defense of that person’s residence if that person is in
a place in which the person lawfully has a right to be.
   (C)   A trier of fact shall not consider the possibility of retreat as a
factor in determining whether or not a person who used force in self-defense,
defense of another, or defense of that person’s residence reasonably believed
that the force was necessary to prevent injury, loss, or risk to life or
safety.
(R.C. § 2901.09) (Rev. 2022)
§ 130.99 PENALTY FOR TITLE XIII.
   (A)   Generally. Except where otherwise specifically classified within the
body of the section of a chapter of this title, a violation of such section
shall be deemed a misdemeanor punishable upon conviction by a fine of not more
than $500, imprisonment of not more than six months, or both.
(R.C. § 715.67)
   (B)   Considerations in misdemeanor sentencing.
      (1)   A court that sentences an offender for a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, or of any
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised Code, shall be guided
by the overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing. The overriding purposes
of misdemeanor sentencing are to protect the public from future crime by the
offender and others and to punish the offender. To achieve those purposes, the
sentencing court shall consider the impact of the offense upon the victim and
the need for changing the offender’s behavior, rehabilitating the defender, and
making restitution to the victim of the offense, the public, or the victim and
the public.
      (2)   A sentence imposed for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation
of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a violation of a municipal ordinance
that is subject to division (B)(1) of this section shall be reasonably
calculated to achieve the two overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing set
forth in division (B)(1) of this section, commensurate with and not demeaning
to the seriousness of the offender’s conduct and its impact upon the victim,
and consistent with sentences imposed for similar offenses committed by similar
offenders.
      (3)   A court that imposes a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor
or minor misdemeanor violation of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a
violation of a municipal ordinance that is subject to division (B)(1) of this
section shall not base the sentence upon the race, ethnic background, gender,
or religion of the offender.
      (4)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) of this section shall not apply to any
offense that is disposed of by a traffic violations bureau of any court
pursuant to Traffic Rule 13 and shall not apply to any violation of any
provision of the Ohio Revised Code that is a minor misdemeanor and that is
disposed of without a court appearance. Divisions (B)(1) through (B)(3) of this
section do not affect any penalties established by the municipality for a
violation of its ordinances that are not substantially equivalent to a
misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised
Code.
(R.C. § 2929.21) (Rev. 2005)
   (C)   Misdemeanor jail terms.
      (1)   Except as provided in §
130.18 or
133.99 of this code or R.C. § 2929.22 or 2929.23 or division (C)(5) or (C)(6)
of this section and unless another term is required or authorized pursuant to
law, if the sentencing court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a
misdemeanor elects or is required to impose a jail term on the offender
pursuant to this chapter, the court shall impose a definite jail term that
shall be one of the following:
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than 180 days;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than 90 days;
         (c)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than 60 days;
         (d)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than 30 days.
      (2)   (a)   A court that sentences an offender to a jail term under
division (C) of this section may permit the offender to serve the sentence in
intermittent confinement or may authorize a limited release of the offender as
provided in division (E)(2) of this section. The court retains jurisdiction
over every offender sentenced to jail to modify the jail sentence imposed at
any time, but the court shall not reduce any mandatory jail term.
         (b)   1.   If a prosecutor, as defined in R.C. § 2935.01, has filed a
notice with the court that the prosecutor wants to be notified about a
particular case and if the court is considering modifying the jail sentence of
the offender in that case, the court shall notify the prosecutor that the court
is considering modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case. The
prosecutor may request a hearing regarding the court’s consideration of
modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, and, if the
prosecutor requests a hearing, the court shall notify the eligible offender of
the hearing.
            2.   If the prosecutor requests a hearing regarding the court’s
consideration of modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, the
court shall hold the hearing before considering whether or not to release the
offender from the offender’s jail sentence.
      (3)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under division (C)
of this section and the court assigns the offender to a county jail that has
established a county jail industry program pursuant to R.C. § 5147.30, the
court shall specify, as part of the sentence, whether the offender may be
considered for participation in the program. During the offender’s term in the
county jail, the court retains jurisdiction to modify its specification
regarding the offender’s participation in the county jail industry program.
      (4)   If a person sentenced to a jail term pursuant to division (C) of
this section, the court may impose as part of the sentence pursuant to R.C. §
2929.28 a reimbursement sanction, and, if the local detention facility in which
the term is to be served is covered by a policy adopted pursuant to R.C. §
307.93, 341.14, 341.19, 341.21, 341.23, 753.02, 753.04, 753.16, 2301.56, or
2947.19 and R.C. § 2929.37, both of the following apply:
         (a)   The court shall specify both of the following as part of the
sentence:
            1.   If the person is presented with an itemized bill pursuant to
R.C. § 2929.37 for payment of the costs of confinement, the person is required
to pay the bill in accordance with that section.
            2.   If the person does not dispute the bill described in division
(C)(4)(a)1. of this section and does not pay the bill by the times specified in
R.C. § 2929.37, the clerk of the court may issue a certificate of judgment
against the person as described in that section.
         (b)   The sentence automatically includes any certificate of judgment
issued as described in division (C)(4)(a)2. of this section.
      (5)   If an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation
of R.C. § 4511.19(B), or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, also
is convicted of or also pleads guilty to a specification of the type described
in R.C. § 2941.1414 and if the court imposes a jail term on the offender for
the underlying offense, the court shall impose upon the offender an additional
definite jail term of not more than six months. The additional jail term shall
not be reduced pursuant to any provision of the Ohio Revised Code. The offender
shall serve the additional jail term consecutively to and prior to the jail
term imposed for the underlying offense and consecutively to any other
mandatory term imposed in relation to the offense.
      (6)   (a)   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
misdemeanor violation of R.C. § 2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241, or 2907.25, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and to a specification of the
type described in R.C. § 2941.1421 and if the court imposes a jail term on the
offender for the misdemeanor violation, the court may impose upon the offender
an additional definite jail term as follows:
            1.   Subject to division (C)(6)(a)2. of this section, an additional
definite jail term of not more than 60 days;
            2.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one or more misdemeanor or felony violations of R.C. § 2907.22,
2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241, or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and also was convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1421 regarding one or more
of those violations, an additional definite jail term of not more than 120
days.
         (b)   In lieu of imposing an additional definite jail term under
division (C)(6)(a) of this section, the court may directly impose on the
offender a sanction that requires the offender to wear a real-time processing,
continual tracking electronic monitoring device during the period of time
specified by the court. The period of time specified by the court shall equal
the duration of an additional jail term that the court could have imposed upon
the offender under division (C)(6)(a) of this section. A sanction imposed under
this division shall commence on the date specified by the court, provided that
the sanction shall not commence until after the offender has served the jail
term imposed for the misdemeanor violation of R.C. § 2907.23, 2907.24,
2907.241, or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
any residential sanction imposed for the violation under division (E) of this
section or R.C. § 2929.26. A sanction imposed under this division shall be
considered to be a community control sanction for purposes of division (D) or
this section or R.C. § 2929.25, and all provisions of this code and the Ohio
Revised Code that pertain to community control sanctions shall apply to a
sanction imposed under this division, except to the extent that they would by
their nature be clearly inapplicable. The offender shall pay all costs
associated with a sanction imposed under this division, including the cost of
the use of the monitoring device.
      (7)   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor
violation of R.C. § 2903.13 and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1423 that charges that the
victim of the violation was a woman whom the offender knew was pregnant at the
time of the violation, the court shall impose on the offender a mandatory jail
term that is a definite term of at least 30 days.
      (8)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under this division
(C), the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender and the jail
term. Upon motion of either party or upon the court’s own motion, the court, in
the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may substitute
one or more community control sanctions under division (E) or (F) of this
section for any jail days that are not mandatory jail days.
(R.C. § 2929.24) (Rev. 2012)
   (D)   Misdemeanor community control sanctions.
      (1)   (a)   Except as provided in §§
130.18 and
133.99 of this code or R.C. §§ 2929.22 and 2929.23 or when a jail term is
required by law, in sentencing an offender for a misdemeanor, other than a
minor misdemeanor, the sentencing court may do either of the following:
            1.   Directly impose a sentence that consists of one or more
community control sanctions authorized by divisions (E), (F), or (G) of this
section. The court may impose any other conditions of release under a community
control sanction that the court considers appropriate. If the court imposes a
jail term upon the offender, the court may impose any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions in addition to the jail
term.
            2.   Impose a jail term under division (C) of this section from the
range of jail terms authorized under that division for the offense, suspend all
or a portion of the jail term imposed, and place the offender under a community
control sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
divisions (E), (F), or (G) of this section.
         (b)   The duration of all community control sanctions imposed upon an
offender and in effect for an offender at any time shall not exceed five years.
         (c)   At sentencing, if a court directly imposes a community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (D)
(1)(a)1. of this section, the court shall state the duration of the community
control sanctions imposed and shall notify the offender that if any of the
conditions of the community control sanctions are violated the court may do any
of the following:
            1.   Impose a longer time under the same community control sanction
if the total time under all of the offender’s community control sanctions does
not exceed the five-year limit specified in division (D)(1)(b) of this section;
            2.   Impose a more restrictive community control sanction under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, but the court is not required to
impose any particular sanction or sanctions;
            3.   Impose a definite jail term from the range of jail terms
authorized for the offense under division (C) of this section.
      (2)   If a court sentences an offender to any community control sanction
or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (D)(1)(a)1.
of this section, the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender
and the period of community control for the duration of the period of community
control. Upon the motion of either party or on the court’s own motion, the
court, in the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may
modify the community control sanctions or conditions of release previously
imposed, substitute a community control sanction or condition of release for
another community control sanction or condition of release previously imposed,
or impose an additional community control sanction or condition of release.
      (3)   (a)   If a court sentences an offender to any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, the court shall place the offender
under the general control and supervision of the court or of a department of
probation in the jurisdiction that serves the court for purposes of reporting
to the court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. If
the offender resides in another jurisdiction and a department of probation has
been established to serve the municipal court or county court in that
jurisdiction, the sentencing court may request the municipal court or the
county court to receive the offender into the general control and supervision
of that department of probation for purposes of reporting to the sentencing
court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. The
sentencing court retains jurisdiction over any offender whom it sentences for
the duration of the sanction or sanctions imposed.
         (b)   The sentencing court shall require as a condition of any
community control sanction that the offender abide by the law and not leave the
state without the permission of the court or the offender’s probation officer.
In the interests of doing justice, rehabilitating the offender, and ensuring
the offender’s good behavior, the court may impose additional requirements on
the offender. The offender’s compliance with the additional requirements also
shall be a condition of the community control sanction imposed upon the
offender.
      (4)   (a)   If the court imposing sentence upon an offender sentences the
offender to any community control sanction or combination of community control
sanctions authorized under division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, and the
offender violates any of the conditions of the sanctions, the public or private
person or entity that supervises or administers the program or activity that
comprises the sanction shall report the violation directly to the sentencing
court or to the department of probation or probation officer with general
control and supervision over the offender. If the public or private person or
entity reports the violation to the department of probation or probation
officer, the department or officer shall report the violation to the sentencing
court.
         (b)   If an offender violates any condition of a community control
sanction, the sentencing court may impose upon the violator one or more of the
following penalties:
            1.   A longer time under the same community control sanction if the
total time under all of the community control sanctions imposed on the violator
does not exceed the five-year limit specified in division (D)(1)(b) of this
section;
            2.   A more restrictive community control sanction;
            3.   A combination of community control sanctions, including a jail
term.
         (c)   If an offender was acting pursuant to R.C. § 2925.11(B)(2)(b),
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and in so doing violated
the conditions of a community control sanction based on a minor drug possession
offense, as defined in R.C. § 2925.11, the sentencing court may consider the
offender’s conduct in seeking or obtaining medical assistance for another in
good faith or for self or may consider the offender being the subject of
another person seeking or obtaining medical assistance in accordance with that
division as a mitigating factor before imposing any of the penalties described
in division (D)(4)(b) of this section.
         (d)   If the court imposes a jail term upon a violator pursuant to
division (D)(4)(b) of this section, the total time spent in jail for the
misdemeanor offense and the violation of a condition of the community control
sanction shall not exceed the maximum jail term available for the offense for
which the sanction that was violated was imposed. The court may reduce the
longer period of time that the violator is required to spend under the longer
sanction or the more restrictive sanction imposed under division (D)(4)(b) of
this section by all or part of the time the violator successfully spent under
the sanction that was initially imposed.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if an offender, for
a significant period of time, fulfills the conditions of a community control
sanction imposed pursuant to division (E), (F), or (G) of this section in an
exemplary manner, the court may reduce the period of time under the community
control sanction or impose a less restrictive community control sanction.
Fulfilling the conditions of a community control sanction does not relieve the
offender of a duty to make restitution under division (G) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.25) (Rev. 2017)
   (E)   Community residential sanction.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any community residential sanction or combination of
community residential sanctions under this division (E). Community residential
sanctions include but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   A term of up to 180 days in a halfway house or a term in a
halfway house not to exceed the longest jail term available for the offense,
whichever is shorter, if the political subdivision that would have
responsibility for paying the costs of confining the offender in a jail has
entered into a contract with the halfway house for use of the facility for
misdemeanor offenders;
         (b)   If the offender is an eligible offender, as defined in R.C. §
307.932, a term in a community alternative sentencing center or district
community alternative sentencing center established and operated in accordance
with that section, in the circumstances specified in that section, with one of
the conditions of the sanction being that the offender successfully complete
the portion of the sentence to be served in the center.
      (2)   A sentence to a community residential sanction under division (E)
(1)(b) of this section shall be in accordance with R.C. § 307.932. In all other
cases, the court that sentences an offender to a community residential sanction
under this division (E) may do either or both of the following:
         (a)   Permit the offender to serve the offender’s sentence in
intermittent confinement, overnight, on weekends or at any other time or times
that will allow the offender to continue at the offender’s occupation or care
for the offender’s family;
         (b)   Authorize the offender to be released so that the offender may
seek or maintain employment, receive education or training, receive treatment,
perform community service, or otherwise fulfill an obligation imposed by law or
by the court. A release pursuant to this division shall be only for the
duration of time that is needed to fulfill the purpose of the release and for
travel that reasonably is necessary to fulfill the purposes of release.
      (3)   The court may order that a reasonable portion of the income earned
by the offender upon a release pursuant to division (E)(2) of this section be
applied to any financial sanction imposed under division (G) of this section.
      (4)   No court shall sentence any person to a prison term for a
misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor or to a jail term for a minor misdemeanor.
      (5)   If a court sentences a person who has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a misdemeanor to a community residential sanction as described in
division (E)(1) of this section, at the time of reception and at other times
the person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community
alternative sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing
center, or other place at which the offender will serve the residential
sanction determines to be appropriate, the person in charge of the operation of
the halfway house, community alternative sentencing center, district community
alternative sentencing center, or other place may cause the convicted offender
to be examined and tested for tuberculosis, HIV infection, hepatitis, including
but not limited to hepatitis A, B, and C, and other contagious diseases. The
person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community alternative
sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing center, or other
place at which the offender will serve the residential sanction may cause a
convicted offender in the halfway house, community alternative sentencing
center, district community alternative sentencing center, or other place who
refuses to be tested or treated for tuberculosis, HIV infection, hepatitis,
including but not limited to hepatitis A, B, and C, or another contagious
disease to be tested and treated involuntarily.
      (6)   The municipality may enter into a contract with a halfway house for
use of the halfway house to house misdemeanor offenders under a sanction
imposed under division (E)(1)(a) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.26) (Rev. 2015)
   (F)   Nonresidential sanction where jail term is not mandatory.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any nonresidential sanction or combination of
nonresidential sanctions authorized under this division. Nonresidential
sanctions include but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   A term of day reporting;
         (b)   A term of house arrest with electronic monitoring or continuous
alcohol monitoring or both electronic monitoring and continuous alcohol
monitoring, a term of electronic monitoring or continuous alcohol monitoring
without house arrest, or a term of house arrest without electronic monitoring
or continuous alcohol monitoring;
         (c)   A term of community service of up to 500 hours for misdemeanor
of the first degree or 200 hours for a misdemeanor of the second, third, or
fourth degree;
         (d)   A term in a drug treatment program with a level of security for
the offender as determined necessary by the court;
         (e)   A term of intensive probation supervision;
         (f)   A term of basic probation supervision;
         (g)   A term of monitored time;
         (h)   A term of drug and alcohol use monitoring, including random drug
testing;
         (i)   A curfew term;
         (j)   A requirement that the offender obtain employment;
         (k)   A requirement that the offender obtain education or training;
         (l)   Provided the court obtains the prior approval of the victim, a
requirement that the offender participate in victim-offender mediation;
         (m)   If authorized by law, suspension of the offender’s privilege to
operate a motor vehicle, immobilization or forfeiture of the offender’s motor
vehicle, a requirement that the offender obtain a valid motor vehicle
operator’s license, or any other related sanction;
         (n)   A requirement that the offender obtain counseling if the offense
is a violation of R.C. § 2919.25 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance or a violation of R.C. § 2903.13 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance involving a person who was a family or household member at
the time of the violation, if the offender committed the offense in the
vicinity of one or more children who are not victims of the offense, and if the
offender or the victim of the offense is a parent, guardian, custodian, or
person in loco parentis of one or more of those children. This division does
not limit the court in requiring that the offender obtain counseling for any
offense or in any circumstance not specified in this division.
      (2)   If the court imposes a term of community service pursuant to
division (F)(1)(c) of this section, the offender may request that the court
modify the sentence to authorize the offender to make a reasonable
contribution, as determined by the court, to the general fund of the county,
municipality, or other local entity that provides funding to the court. The
court may grant the request if the offender demonstrates a change in
circumstances from the date the court imposes the sentence or that the
modification would otherwise be in the interests of justice. If the court
grants the request, the offender shall make a reasonable contribution to the
court, and the clerk of the court shall deposit that contribution into the
general fund of the county, municipality, or other local entity that provides
funding to the court. If more than one entity provides funding to the court,
the clerk shall deposit a percentage of the reasonable contribution equal to
the percentage of funding the entity provides to the court in that entity’s
general fund.
      (3)   In addition to the sanctions authorized under division (F)(1) of
this section, the court imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a
minor misdemeanor, upon an offender who is not required to serve a mandatory
jail term may impose any other sanction that is intended to discourage the
offender or other persons from committing a similar offense if the sanction is
reasonably related to the overriding purposes and principles of misdemeanor
sentencing.
      (4)   The court imposing a sentence for a minor misdemeanor may impose a
term of community service in lieu of all or part of a fine. The term of
community service imposed for a minor misdemeanor shall not exceed 30 hours.
After imposing a term of community service, the court may modify the sentence
to authorize a reasonable contribution, as determined by the court, to the
appropriate general fund as provided in division (F)(2) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.27) (Rev. 2012)
   (G)   Financial sanctions.
      (1)   In addition to imposing court costs pursuant to R.C. § 2947.23, the
court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor, including a minor
misdemeanor, may sentence the offender to any financial sanction or combination
of financial sanctions authorized under this division (G). If the court in its
discretion imposes one or more financial sanctions, the financial sanctions
that may be imposed pursuant to this section include but are not limited to the
following:
         (a)   Restitution.
            1.   Unless the misdemeanor offense is a minor misdemeanor or could
be disposed of by the Traffic Violations Bureau serving the court under Traffic
Rule 13, restitution by the offender to the victim of the offender’s crime or
any survivor of the victim, in an amount based upon the victim’s economic loss.
The court may not impose restitution as a sanction pursuant to this division if
the offense is a minor misdemeanor or could be disposed of by the Traffic
Violations Bureau serving the court under Traffic Rule 13. If the court
requires restitution, the court shall order that the restitution be made to the
victim in open court or to the adult probation department that serves the
jurisdiction or the clerk of the court on behalf of the victim.
            2.   If the court imposes restitution, the court shall determine
the amount of restitution to be paid by the offender. If the court imposes
restitution, the court may base the amount of restitution it orders on an
amount recommended by the victim, the offender, a presentence investigation
report, estimates or receipts indicating the cost of repairing or replacing
property, and other information, provided that the amount the court orders as
restitution shall not exceed the amount of economic loss suffered by the victim
as a direct and proximate result of the commission of the offense. If the court
imposes restitution for the cost of accounting or auditing done to determine
the extent of economic loss, the court may order restitution for any amount of
the victim’s costs of accounting or auditing provided that the amount of
restitution is reasonable and does not exceed the value of property or services
stolen or damaged as a result of the offense. If the court decides to impose
restitution, the court shall hold an evidentiary hearing on restitution if the
offender, victim, or survivor disputes the amount of restitution. If the court
holds an evidentiary hearing, at the hearing the victim or survivor has the
burden to prove by a preponderance of the evidence the amount of restitution
sought from the offender.
            3.   All restitution payments shall be credited against any
recovery of economic loss in a civil action brought by the victim or any
survivor of the victim against the offender. No person may introduce evidence
of an award of restitution under this section in a civil action for purposes of
imposing liability against an insurer under R.C. § 3937.18.
            4.   If the court imposes restitution, the court may order that the
offender pay a surcharge, of not more than 5% of the amount of the restitution
otherwise ordered, to the entity responsible for collecting and processing
restitution payments.
            5.   The victim or survivor of the victim may request that the
prosecutor in the case file a motion, or the offender may file a motion, for
modification of the payment terms of any restitution ordered. If the court
grants the motion, it may modify the payment terms as it determines
appropriate.
         (b)   Fines. A fine of the type described in divisions (G)(1)(b)1. and
(G)(1)(b)2. of this section payable to the appropriate entity as required by
law:
            1.   A fine in the following amount:
               a.   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than
$1,000;
               b.   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $750;
               c.   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $500;
               d.   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $250;
               e.   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than $150.
            2.   A state fine or cost as defined in R.C. § 2949.111.
         (c)   Reimbursement.
            1.   Reimbursement by the offender of any or all of the costs of
sanctions incurred by the government, including but not limited to the
following:
               a.   All or part of the costs of implementing any community
control sanction, including a supervision fee under R.C. § 2951.021;
               b.   All or part of the costs of confinement in a jail or other
residential facility, including but not limited to a per diem fee for room and
board, the costs of medical and dental treatment, and the costs of repairing
property damaged by the offender while confined;
               c.   All or part of the cost of purchasing and using an
immobilizing or disabling device, including a certified ignition interlock
device, or a remote alcohol monitoring device that a court orders an offender
to use under R.C. § 4510.13.
            2.   The amount of reimbursement under division (G)(1)(c)1. of this
section shall not exceed the total amount of reimbursement the offender is able
to pay and shall not exceed the actual cost of the sanctions. The court may
collect any amount of reimbursement the offender is required to pay under that
division. If the court does not order reimbursement under that division,
confinement costs may be assessed pursuant to a repayment policy adopted under
R.C. § 2929.37. In addition, the offender may be required to pay the fees
specified in R.C. § 2929.38 in accordance with that section.   
      (2)   (a)   If the court determines a hearing is necessary, the court may
hold a hearing to determine whether the offender is able to pay the financial
sanction imposed pursuant to this division (G) or court costs or is likely in
the future to be able to pay the sanction or costs.
         (b)   If the court determines that the offender is indigent and unable
to pay the financial sanction or court costs, the court shall consider imposing
and may impose a term of community service under division (F)(1) of this
section in lieu of imposing a financial sanction or court costs. If the court
does not determine that the offender is indigent, the court may impose a term
of community service under division (F)(1) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this division (G) and in
addition to imposing court costs. The court may order community service for a
minor misdemeanor pursuant to division (F)(4) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this section and in addition to
imposing court costs. If a person fails to pay a financial sanction or court
costs, the court may order community service in lieu of the financial sanction
or court costs.
      (3)   (a)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the
offender pursuant to division (G)(1)(c) of this section to pay the costs
incurred by a county pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (E), (F),
or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine offenders
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this section to the county
treasurer. The county treasurer shall deposit the reimbursements in the
county’s General Fund. The county shall use the amounts deposited in the fund
to pay the costs incurred by the county pursuant to any sanction imposed under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to
confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this
section.
         (b)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the offender
pursuant to division (G)(1)(c) of this section to pay the costs incurred by a
municipal corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (E), (F),
or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine offenders
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this section to the
treasurer of the municipal corporation. The treasurer shall deposit the
reimbursements in the municipal corporation’s General Fund. The municipal
corporation shall use the amounts deposited in the fund to pay the costs
incurred by the municipal corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to
confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this
section.
         (c)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed pursuant to
division (G)(1)(c) of this section for the costs incurred by a private provider
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E), (F), or (G) of this section
to the provider.
      (4)   In addition to any other fine that is or may be imposed under this
division (G), the court imposing sentence upon an offender for misdemeanor
domestic violence or menacing by stalking may impose a fine of not less than
$70 nor more than $500, which shall be transmitted to the Treasurer of Ohio to
be credited to the address confidentiality program fund created by R.C. §
111.48.
      (5)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (G)(5), a
financial sanction imposed under division (G)(1) of this section is a judgment
in favor of the state or the political subdivision that operates the court that
imposed the financial sanction, and the offender subject to the financial
sanction is the judgment debtor. A financial sanction of reimbursement imposed
pursuant to division (G)(1)(c)1.a. of this section upon an offender is a
judgment in favor of the entity administering the community control sanction,
and the offender subject to the financial sanction is the judgment debtor. A
financial sanction of reimbursement imposed pursuant to division (G)(1)(c)1.b.
of this section upon an offender confined in a jail or other residential
facility is a judgment in favor of the entity operating the jail or other
residential facility, and the offender subject to the financial sanction is the
judgment debtor. A financial sanction of restitution imposed pursuant to
division (G)(1)(a) of this section is an order in favor of the victim of the
offender’s criminal act that can be collected through a certificate of judgment
as described in division (G)(5)(b)1. of this section, through execution as
described in division (G)(5)(b)2. of this section or through an order as
described in division (G)(5)(b)3. of this section and the offender shall be
considered for purposes of the collection as a judgment debtor.
         (b)   Once a financial sanction is imposed as a judgment or order
under this division, the victim, private provider, state, or political
subdivision may do any of the following:
            1.   Obtain from the clerk of the court in which the judgment was
entered a certificate of judgment that shall be in the same manner and form as
a certificate of judgment issued in a civil action;
            2.   Obtain execution of the judgment or order through any
available procedure, including any of the procedures identified in R.C. §
2929.18(D)(1) and (D)(2) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
            3.   Obtain an order for the assignment of wages of the judgment
debtor under R.C. § 1321.33 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (6)   The civil remedies authorized under division (G)(5) of this section
for the collection of the financial sanction supplement, but do not preclude,
enforcement of the criminal sentence.
      (7)   Each court imposing a financial sanction upon an offender under
this division (G) may designate the clerk of the court or another person to
collect the financial sanction. The clerk, or another person authorized by law
or the court to collect the financial sanction may do the following:
         (a)   Enter into contracts with one or more public agencies or private
vendors for the collection of amounts due under the sanction. Before entering
into a contract for the collection of amounts due from an offender pursuant to
any financial sanction imposed pursuant to this division (G), a court shall
comply with R.C. §§ 307.86 through 307.92.
         (b)   Permit payment of all or any portion of the sanction in
installments, by financial transaction device if the court is a county court or
a municipal court operated by a county, or by any other reasonable method, in
any time, and on any terms that the court considers just, except that the
maximum time permitted for payment shall not exceed five years. If the court is
a county court or a municipal court operated by a county, the acceptance of
payments by any financial transaction device shall be governed by the policy
adopted by the board of county commissioners of the county pursuant to R.C. §
301.28. If the court is a municipal court not operated by a county, the clerk
may pay any fee associated with processing an electronic transfer out of public
money or may charge the fee to the offender.
         (c)   To defray administrative costs, charge a reasonable fee to an
offender who elects a payment plan rather than a lump sum payment of any
financial sanction.
      (8)   No financial sanction imposed under this division (G) shall
preclude a victim from bringing a civil action against the offender.
(R.C. § 2929.28) (Rev. 2022)
   (H)   Organizational penalties.
      (1)   Regardless of the other penalties provided in this section, an
organization convicted of an offense pursuant to §
130.09 shall be fined by the court as follows:
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than $5,000;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $4,000;
         (c)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $3,000;
         (d)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $2,000;
         (e)   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than $1,000;
         (f)   For a misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more than
$2,000;
         (g)   For a minor misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more
than $1,000.
      (2)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the section defining the offense or penalty plainly indicates a
purpose to impose the penalty provided for violation upon organizations, then
such penalty shall be imposed in lieu of the penalty provided in this section.
      (3)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the penalty provided includes a higher fine than that provided
in this section, then the penalty imposed shall be pursuant to the penalty
provided for violation of the section defining the offense.
      (4)   This section does not prevent the imposition of available civil
sanctions against an organization convicted of an offense pursuant to §
130.09, either in addition to or in lieu of a fine imposed pursuant to this
section.
(R.C. § 2929.31) (Rev. 2004)
Cross-reference:
Sentencing for sexually oriented offenses; sexual predators; registration, see
§
133.99
Statutory reference:
Citation issuance and limitations on arrest for minor misdemeanors, see R.C. §
2935.26
Crime Victim’s Reparations Fund, see R.C. § 2929.32
Habitual sex offender and sexual predator registration, see R.C. Chapter 2950
Reimbursement for costs of confinement, see R.C. §§ 2929.36 et seq.
Reports to health care licensing boards of criminal offenses, see R.C. §
2929.42
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Arson; determining property value or amount of physical harm
   
131.03   Criminal damaging or endangering; vehicular vandalism
   
131.04   Criminal mischief
   
131.05   Damaging or endangering aircraft or airport operations
   
131.06   Criminal trespass; aggravated trespass
   
131.07   Tampering with coin machines
   
131.08   Theft
   
131.09   Unauthorized use of a vehicle
   
131.10   Unauthorized use of property, including telecommunication property and
computers; possession of municipal property
   
131.11   Passing bad checks
   
131.12   Misuse of credit cards
   
131.13   Making or using slugs
   
131.14   Prima facie evidence of purpose to defraud
   
131.15   Tampering with records
   
131.16   Securing writings by deception
   
131.17   Defrauding creditors
   
131.18   Receiving stolen property
   
131.19   Value of stolen property
   
131.20   Degree of offense when certain property involved
   
131.21   Injuring vines, bushes, trees, or crops
   
131.22   Detention and arrest of shoplifters and those committing motion
picture piracy; protection of institutional property
   
131.23   Insurance fraud; workers’ compensation fraud; Medicaid fraud
   
131.24   Injury to property by hunters
   
131.25   Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental
services; evidence of lack of capacity to consent
   
131.26   Forgery of identification cards
   
131.27   Criminal simulation
   
131.28   Personating an officer
   
131.29   Trademark counterfeiting
   
131.30   Diminishing or interfering with forfeitable property
   
131.31   Recording credit card, telephone or Social Security numbers
   
131.32   Prosecutions for theft of utilities
   
131.33   Motion picture piracy
   
131.34   Railroad vandalism; criminal trespass; interference with operation of
train; grade crossing device vandalism
   
131.35   Desecration
Cross-reference:
Animals, offenses against, see §§
90.20 et seq.
Property recovered by police, deposit of stolen property, see §§
34.10 et seq.
Statutory reference:
Cable television service devices, unauthorized sale or possession, felony, see
R.C. § 2913.041
Deceptive acts or practices in connection with consumer transactions, see
O.A.C. Chapter 109:4-3
Disrupting public services, felony, see R.C. § 2909.04
E-mail advertisements, civil offenses and felony forgery offense, see R.C. §
2307.64
E-mail spam, civil offenses and felony offenses, see R.C. § 2913.421
Food stamps, illegal use, see R.C. § 2913.46
Telecommunications: fraud and unlawful use of a device, felony offenses, see
R.C. §§ 2913.05 and 2913.06
Terrorism involving agricultural products or equipment, see R.C. § 901.511
§ 131.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE DUTY SERVICE MEMBER. Any member of the armed forces of the United
States performing active duty under Title 10 of the United States Code.
   ANHYDROUS AMMONIA. A compound formed by the combination of two gaseous
elements, nitrogen and hydrogen, in the manner described below. Anhydrous
ammonia is one part nitrogen to three parts hydrogen (NH3). Anhydrous ammonia
by weight is fourteen parts nitrogen to three parts hydrogen, which is
approximately 82% nitrogen to 18% hydrogen.
   ASSISTANCE DOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
   CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE. Any services provided by or through the facilities
of any cable television system or other similar closed circuit coaxial cable
communications system, or any microwave or similar transmission service used in
connection with any cable television system or other similar closed circuit
coaxial cable communications system.
   COIN MACHINE. Any mechanical or electronic device designed to do both of the
following:
      (1)   Receive a coin or bill, or token made for that purpose;
      (2)   In return for the insertion or deposit of a coin, bill, or token,
automatically dispense property, provide a service, or grant a license.
   COMPUTER. An electronic device that performs logical, arithmetic, and memory
functions by the manipulation of electronic or magnetic impulses. The term
includes but is not limited to all input, output, processing, storage, computer
program, or communication facilities that are connected, or related, in a
computer system or network to an electronic device of that nature.
   COMPUTER CONTAMINANT. Means a computer program that is designed to modify,
damage, destroy, disable, deny or degrade access to, allow unauthorized access
to, functionally impair, record, or transmit information within a computer,
computer system, or computer network without the express or implied consent of
the owner or other person authorized to give consent and that is of a type or
kind described in divisions (1) through (4) of this definition or of a type or
kind similar to a type or kind described in divisions (1) through (4) of this
definition:
      (1)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “viruses” and
“worms” that are self-replicating or self-propagating and that are designed to
contaminate other computer programs, compromise computer security, consume
computer resources, modify, destroy, record, or transmit data, or disrupt the
normal operation of the computer, computer system, or computer network;
      (2)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “Trojans” or “Trojan
horses” that are not self- replicating or self-propagating and that are
designed to compromise computer security, consume computer resources, modify,
destroy, record, or transmit data, or disrupt the normal operation of the
computer, computer system, or computer network;
      (3)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “zombies” that are
designed to use a computer without the knowledge and consent of the owner, or
other person authorized to give consent, and that are designed to send large
quantities of data to a targeted computer network for the purpose of degrading
the targeted computer’s or network’s performance, or denying access through the
network to the targeted computer or network, resulting in what is commonly
known as “denial of service” or “distributed denial of service” attacks;
      (4)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “trap doors”, “back
doors”, or “root kits” that are designed to bypass standard authentication
software and that are designed to allow access or use of a computer without the
knowledge or consent of the owner, or other person authorized to give consent.
   COMPUTER HACKING.
      (1)   The term means any of the following:
         (a)   Gaining access or attempting to gain access to all or part of a
computer, computer system, or a computer network without express or implied
authorization with the intent to defraud or with intent to commit a crime;
         (b)   Misusing computer or network services including but not limited
to mail transfer programs, file transfer programs, proxy servers, and web
servers by performing functions not authorized by the owner of the computer,
computer system, or computer network or other person authorized to give
consent. As used in this division, “misuse of computer and network services”
includes but is not limited to the unauthorized use of any of the following:
            1.   Mail transfer programs to send mail to persons other than the
authorized users of that computer or computer network;
            2.   File transfer program services or proxy servers to access
other computers, computer systems, or computer networks;
            3.   Web servers to redirect users to other web pages or web
servers.
         (c)   1.   Subject to division (1)(c)2. of this definition, using a
group of computer programs commonly known as “port scanners” or “probes” to
intentionally access any computer, computer system, or computer network without
the permission of the owner of the computer, computer system, or computer
network or other person authorized to give consent. The group of computer
programs referred to in this division includes but is not limited to those
computer programs that use a computer network to access a computer, computer
system, or another computer network to determine any of the following: the
presence or types of computers or computer systems on a network; the computer
network’s facilities and capabilities; the availability of computer or network
services; the presence or versions of computer software including but not
limited to operating systems, computer services, or computer contaminants; the
presence of a known computer software deficiency that can be used to gain
unauthorized access to a computer, computer system, or computer network; or any
other information about a computer, computer system, or computer network not
necessary for the normal and lawful operation of the computer initiating the
access.
            2.   The group of computer programs referred to in division (1)
(c)1. of this definition does not include standard computer software used for
the normal operation, administration, management, and test of a computer,
computer system, or computer network including but not limited to domain name
services, mail transfer services, and other operating system services, computer
programs commonly called “ping”, “tcpdump”, and “traceroute” and other network
monitoring and management computer software, and computer programs commonly
knows as “nslookup” and “whois” and other systems administration computer
software.
         (d)   The intentional use of a computer, computer system, or a
computer network in a manner that exceeds any right or permission granted by
the owner of the computer, computer system, or computer network or other person
authorized to give consent.
      (2)   The term does not include the introduction of a computer
contaminant, as defined in this section, into a computer, computer system,
computer program, or computer network.
   COMPUTER NETWORK. A set of related and remotely-connected computers and
communication facilities that includes more than one computer system that has
the capability to transmit among the connected computers and communication
facilities through the use of computer facilities.
   COMPUTER PROGRAM. An ordered set of data representing coded instructions or
statements that, when executed by a computer, causes the computer to process
data.
   COMPUTER SERVICES. Includes but is not limited to the use of a computer
system, computer network, computer program, data that is prepared for computer
use, or data that is contained within a computer system or computer network.
   COMPUTER SOFTWARE. Computer programs, procedures, and other documentation
associated with the operation of a computer system.
   COMPUTER SYSTEM. A computer and related devices, whether connected or
unconnected, including but not limited to data input, output, and storage
devices, data communications links, and computer programs and data that make
the system capable of performing specified special purpose data processing
tasks.
   COUNTERFEIT TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. A telecommunications device that,
alone or with another telecommunications device, has been altered, constructed,
manufactured, or programmed to acquire, intercept, receive, or otherwise
facilitate the use of a telecommunications service or information service
without the authority or consent of the provider of the telecommunications
service or information service. The phrase includes but is not limited to a
clone telephone, clone microchip, tumbler telephone, or tumbler microchip; a
wireless scanning device capable of acquiring, intercepting, receiving, or
otherwise facilitating the use of telecommunications service or information
service without immediate detection; or a device, equipment, hardware, or
software designed for, or capable of, altering or changing the electronic
serial number in a wireless telephone.
   CREATE A SUBSTANTIAL RISK OF SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO ANY PERSON. Includes
the creation of a substantial risk of serious physical harm to any emergency
personnel.
   CREDIT CARD. Includes but is not limited to a card, code, device, or other
means of access to a customer’s account for the purpose of obtaining money,
property, labor, or services on credit, or for initiating an electronic fund
transfer at a point-of-sale terminal, an automated teller machine, or a cash
dispensing machine. It also includes a county procurement card issued under
R.C. § 301.29.
   DANGEROUS DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DANGEROUS ORDNANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
   DATA. A representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts, or
instructions that are being or have been prepared in a formalized manner and
that are intended for use in a computer, computer system, or computer network.
   DECEPTION. To knowingly deceive another or cause another to be deceived by
any false or misleading representation, by withholding information, by
preventing another from acquiring information, or by any other conduct, act, or
omission that creates, confirms, or perpetuates a false impression in another,
including a false impression as to law, value, state of mind, or other
objective or subjective fact.
   DEFRAUD. To knowingly obtain, by deception, some benefit for oneself or
another, or to knowingly cause, by deception, some detriment to another.
   DEPRIVE. To do any of the following:
      (1)   To withhold property of another permanently, or for a period that
appropriates a substantial portion of its value or use, or with purpose to
restore it only upon payment of a reward or other consideration;
      (2)   To dispose of property so as to make it unlikely that the owner
will recover it;
      (3)   To accept, use, or appropriate money, property, or services, with
purpose not to give proper consideration in return for the money, property, or
services, and without reasonable justification or excuse for not giving proper
consideration.
   DISABLED ADULT. A person who is 18 years of age or older and has some
impairment of body or mind that makes the person unable to work at any
substantially remunerative employment that the person otherwise would be able
to perform and that will, with reasonable probability, continue for a period of
at least 12 months without any present indication of recovery from the
impairment, or who is 18 years of age or older and has been certified as
permanently and totally disabled by an agency of this state or the United
States that has the function of so classifying persons.
   DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   ELDERLY PERSON. A person who is 65 years of age or older.
   ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER. Has the same meaning as in 92 Stat. 3728, 15
U.S.C. § 1693a, as amended.
   EMERGENCY PERSONNEL. Means any of the following persons:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 2935.01;
      (2)   A member of a fire department or other firefighting agency of a
municipal corporation, township, township fire district, joint fire district,
other political subdivision, or combination of political subdivisions;
      (3)   A member of a private fire company, as defined in R.C. § 9.60, or a
volunteer firefighter;
      (4)    A member of a joint ambulance district or joint emergency medical
services district;
      (5)   An emergency medical technician-basic, emergency medical
technician-intermediate, emergency medical technician-paramedic, ambulance
operator, or other member of an emergency medical service that is owned or
operated by a political subdivision or a private entity;
      (6)   The State Fire Marshal, the Chief Deputy State Fire Marshal, or an
assistant state fire marshal;
      (7)   A fire prevention officer of a political subdivision or an arson,
fire, or similar investigator of a political subdivision.
   FEDERALLY-LICENSED FIREARMS DEALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5502.63.
   FIREARM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
   FORGE. To fabricate or create, in whole or in part and by any means, any
spurious writing, or to make, execute, alter, complete, reproduce, or otherwise
purport to authenticate any writing, when the writing in fact is not
authenticated by that conduct.
   GAIN ACCESS. To approach, instruct, communicate with, store data in,
retrieve data from, or otherwise make use of any resources of a computer,
computer system, or computer network, or any cable service or cable system both
as defined in R.C. § 2913.04.
   INFORMATION SERVICE.
      (1)   Subject to division (2) of this definition, the offering of a
capability for generating, acquiring, storing, transforming, processing,
retrieving, utilizing, or making available information via telecommunications,
including but not limited to electronic publishing.
      (2)   The term does not include any use of a capability of a type
described in division (1) of this definition for the management, control, or
operation of a telecommunications system or the management of a
telecommunications service.
   INTERNET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 341.42.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   OCCUPIED STRUCTURE. Means any house, building, outbuilding, watercraft,
aircraft, railroad car, truck, trailer, tent, or other structure, vehicle, or
shelter, or any portion thereof, to which any of the following applies:
      (1)   It is maintained as a permanent or temporary dwelling, even though
it is temporarily unoccupied and whether nor not any person is actually
present;
      (2)   At the time, it is occupied as the permanent or temporary
habitation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present;
      (3)   At the time, it is specially adapted for the overnight
accommodation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present;
      (4)   At the time, any person is present or likely to be present in it.
   OWNER. Unless the context requires a different meaning, any person, other
than the actor, who is the owner of, who has possession or control of, or who
has any license or interest in property or services, even though the ownership,
possession, control, license, or interest is unlawful.
   POLICE DOG OR HORSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.321.
   POLITICAL SUBDIVISION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2744.01.
   RENTED PROPERTY. Personal property in which the right of possession and use
of the property is for a short and possibly indeterminate term in return for
consideration; the rentee generally controls the duration of possession of the
property within any applicable minimum or maximum term; and the amount of
consideration is generally determined by the duration of possession of the
property.
   SERVICES. Includes labor, personal services, professional services, rental
services, public utility services including wireless service as defined in R.C.
§ 128.01(F)(1), common carrier services, and food, drink, transportation,
entertainment, and cable television services and, for purposes of R.C. §
2913.04 or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, includes cable
services as defined in that section.
   SLUG. An object that, by virtue of its size, shape, composition, or other
quality, is capable of being inserted or deposited in a coin machine as an
improper substitute for a genuine coin, bill, or token made for that purpose.
   STATE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2744.01.
   TELECOMMUNICATION. The origination, emission, dissemination, transmission,
or reception of data, images, signals, sounds, or other intelligence or
equivalence or intelligence of any nature over any communications system by any
method, including but not limited to a fiber optic, electronic, magnetic,
optical, digital or analog method.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Any instrument, equipment, machine, or other
device that facilitates telecommunication, including but not limited to a
computer, computer network, computer chip, computer circuit, scanner,
telephone, cellular telephone, pager, personal communications device,
transponder, receiver, radio, modem, or device that enables the use of a modem.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. The providing, allowing, facilitating, or
generating of any form of telecommunication through the use of a
telecommunications device over a telecommunications system.
   THEFT OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12, 2911.13,
2911.31, 2911.32, 2913.02, 2913.03, 2913.04, 2913.041, 2913.11, 2913.21,
2913.31, 2913.32, 2913.33, 2913.34, 2913.40, 2913.42, 2913.43, 2913.44,
2913.45, 2913.47, 2913.48, former R.C. § 2913.47 or 2913.48, or R.C. § 2913.51,
2915.05, or 2921.41;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
section listed in division (1) of this definition, or a violation of R.C. §
2913.41, 2913.81 or 2915.06 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or the United States involving robbery, burglary,
breaking and entering, theft, embezzlement, wrongful conversion, forgery,
counterfeiting, deceit, or fraud;
      (4)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing any offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   UTTER. To issue, publish, transfer, use, put or send into circulation,
deliver, or display.
   WRITING. Any computer software, document, letter, memorandum, note, paper,
plate, data, film, or other thing having in or upon it any written, type-
written, or printed matter, and any token, stamp, seal, credit card, badge,
trademark, label, or other symbol of value, right, privilege, license, or
identification.
(R.C. §§ 2909.01, 2913.01) (Rev. 2015)
§ 131.02 ARSON; DETERMINING PROPERTY VALUE OR AMOUNT OF PHYSICAL HARM.
   (A)   No person, by means of fire or explosion, shall knowingly do any of
the following:
      (1)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
property of another without the other person’s consent;
      (2)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
property of the offender or another, with purpose to defraud;
      (3)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to the
statehouse or a courthouse, school building, or other building or structure
that is owned or controlled by the state, any political subdivision, or any
department, agency, or instrumentality of the state or a political subdivision,
and that is used for public purposes;
      (4)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm, through the
offer or the acceptance of an agreement for hire or other consideration, to any
property of another without the other person’s consent or to any property of
the offender or another with purpose to defraud;
      (5)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any park,
preserve, wildlands, brush- covered land, cut-over land, forest, timberland,
greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is owned or controlled by
another person, the state, or a political subdivision without the consent of
the other person, the state, or the political subdivision;
      (6)   With purpose to defraud, cause, or create a substantial risk of,
physical harm to any park, preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over
land, forest, timberland, greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is
owned or controlled by the offender, another person, the state, or a political
subdivision.
   (B)   No person, by means of fire or explosion, shall knowingly do any of
the following:
      (1)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
structure of another that is not an occupied structure;
      (2)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm, through the
offer or the acceptance of an agreement for hire or other consideration, to any
structure of another that is not an occupied structure;
      (3)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
structure that is not an occupied structure and that is in or on any park,
preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over land, forest, timberland,
greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is owned or controlled by
another person, the state, or a political subdivision.
   (C)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(1)
or (B)(2) of this section that the defendant acted with the consent of the
other person.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(3) of
this section that the defendant acted with the consent of the other person, the
state, or the political subdivision.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of arson.
      (2)   A violation of division (A)(1) or (B)(1) of this section is one of
the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(2)(b) of this
section, a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         (b)   If the value of the property or the amount of the physical harm
involved is $1,000 or more, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (3)   A violation of division (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), (A)(5), (A)(6), (B)
(2) or (B)(3) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2909.03) (Rev. 2018)
   (E)   Determining property value or amount of physical harm.
      (1)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or amount of physical harm involved in a violation of division (A)(1)
or (B)(1) of this section:
         (a)   If the property is an heirloom, memento, collector’s item,
antique, museum piece, manuscript, document, record, or other thing that is
either irreplaceable or is replaceable only on the expenditure of substantial
time, effort, or money, the value of the property or the amount of physical
harm involved is the amount that would compensate the owner for its loss.
         (b)   If the property is not covered under division (B)(1)(a) of this
section, and the physical harm is such that the property can be restored
substantially to its former condition, the amount of physical harm involved is
the reasonable cost of restoring the property.
         (c)   If the property is not covered under division (B)(1)(a) of this
section, and the physical harm is such that the property cannot be restored
substantially to its former condition, the value of the property, in the case
of personal property, is the cost of replacing the property with new property
of like kind and quality, and in the case of real property or real property
fixtures, is the difference in the fair market value of the property
immediately before and immediately after the offense.
      (2)   As used in this section, FAIR MARKET VALUE has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 2913.61.
      (3)   Prima facie evidence of the value of property, as provided in R.C.
§ 2913.61(D), may be used to establish the value of property pursuant to this
section.
(R.C. § 2909.11(B) - (D)) (Rev. 2018)
Cross-reference:
Negligent burning, see §
91.38
Statutory reference:
Aggravated arson, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.02
Arson offender registration, see R.C. §§ 2909.13, 2909.14 and 2909.15
Convicted arsonist to make restitution to public agency, see R.C. § 2929.71
§ 131.03 CRIMINAL DAMAGING OR ENDANGERING; VEHICULAR VANDALISM.
   (A)   Criminal damaging or endangering.
      (1)   No person shall cause or create a substantial risk of physical harm
to any property of another without the other person’s consent:
         (a)   Knowingly, by any means; or
         (b)   Recklessly, by means of fire, explosion, flood, poison gas,
poison, radioactive material, caustic or corrosive material, or other
inherently dangerous agency or substance.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of criminal damaging
or endangering, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If violation of this
division (A) creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging
or endangering is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the property involved
in a violation of this division (A) is an aircraft, an aircraft engine,
propeller, appliance, spare part, or any other equipment or implement used or
intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and if the violation
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging or endangering
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the property
involved in a violation of this division (A) is an aircraft, an aircraft
engine, propeller, appliance, spare part, or any other equipment or implement
used or intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and if the
violation creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person or if the
property involved in a violation of this division (A) is an occupied aircraft,
criminal damaging or endangering is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2909.06)
   (B)   Vehicular vandalism.
      (1)   As used in this division (B):
         ALLEY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
         HIGHWAY. Means any highway as defined in R.C. § 4511.01 or any lane,
road, street, alley, bridge, or overpass.
         STREET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
         VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
         VESSEL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1546.01.
         WATERS IN THIS STATE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1546.01.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any
object at, onto, or in the path of any of the following:
         (a)   Any vehicle on a highway;
         (b)   Any boat or vessel on any of the waters in this state.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of vehicular
vandalism. Except as otherwise provided in this division (B)(3), vehicular
vandalism is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation of this
division (B) creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person or the
violation of this division (B) causes serious physical harm to property,
vehicular vandalism is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
If the violation of this division (B) causes physical harm to any person or
serious physical harm to any person, vehicular vandalism is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.09) (Rev. 2017)
Statutory reference:
Disrupting public services, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.04
Vandalism, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.05
§ 131.04 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with the either of the following:
         (a)   The property of another;
         (b)   One’s own residential real property with the purpose to decrease
the value of or enjoyment of the residential real property, if both of the
following apply:
            1.   The residential real property is subject to a mortgage.
            2.   The person has been served with a summons and complaint in a
pending residential mortgage loan foreclosure action relating to that real
property. As used in this division, “pending” includes the time between
judgment entry and confirmation of sale.
      (2)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of property of
another, employ a tear gas device, stink bomb, smoke generator, or other device
releasing a substance that is harmful or offensive to persons exposed, or that
tends to cause public alarm;
      (3)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with a bench mark, triangulation
station, boundary marker, or other survey station, monument, or marker;
      (4)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with any safety device, the property of
another, or the property of the offender when required or placed for the safety
of others, so as to destroy or diminish its effectiveness or availability for
its intended purpose;
      (5)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of the property
of another, set a fire on the land of another or place personal property that
has been set on fire on the land of another, which fire or personal property is
outside and apart from any building, other structure, or personal property that
is on that land;
      (6)   Without privilege to do so, and with intent to impair the
functioning of any computer, computer system, computer network, computer
software, or computer program, knowingly do any of the following:
         (a)   In any manner or by any means, including but not limited to
computer hacking, alter, damage, destroy, or modify a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software, or computer program or data
contained in a computer, computer system, computer network, computer software,
or computer program;
         (b)   Introduce a computer contaminant into a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software, or computer program.
      (7)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly destroy or improperly tamper
with a critical infrastructure facility.
   (B)   As used in this section:
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2911.21.
      IMPROPERLY TAMPER. Means to change the physical location or the physical
condition of the property.
      SAFETY DEVICE. Means any fire extinguisher, fire hose, or fire axe, or
any fire escape, emergency exit, or emergency escape equipment, or any life
line, life-saving ring, life preserver, or life boat or raft, or any alarm,
light, flare, signal, sign, or notice intended to warn of danger or emergency,
or intended for other safety purposes, or any guard railing or safety
barricade, or any traffic sign or signal, or any railroad grade crossing sign,
signal, or gate, or any first aid or survival equipment, or any other device,
apparatus, or equipment intended for protecting or preserving the safety of
persons or property.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal mischief,
and shall be punished as provided in division (C)(2), (C)(3), or (C)(4) of this
section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the third degree. Except as otherwise provided
in this division, if the violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section creates a risk of physical harm to any person,
criminal mischief committed in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3),
(A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
property involved in the violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section is an aircraft, an aircraft engine, propeller,
appliance, spare part, fuel, lubricant, hydraulic fluid, any other equipment,
implement, or material used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft, or any cargo carried or intended to be carried in an aircraft and if
the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or if the
aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief committed in
violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the value of the computer, computer system, computer
network, computer software, computer program, or data involved in the violation
of division (A)(6) of this section or the loss to the victim resulting from the
violation is $1,000 or more, or if the computer, computer system, computer
network, computer software, computer program, or data involved in the violation
of division (A)(6) is used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft and the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or
if the aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Criminal mischief committed in violation of division (A)(7) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.07) (Rev. 2022)
§ 131.05 DAMAGING OR ENDANGERING AIRCRAFT OR AIRPORT OPERATIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AIR GUN. Means a hand pistol or rifle that propels its projectile by
means of releasing compressed air, carbon dioxide, or other gas.
      AIRPORT OPERATIONAL SURFACE. Means any surface of land or water that is
developed, posted, or marked so as to give an observer reasonable notice that
the surface is designed and developed for the purpose of storing, parking,
taxiing, or operating aircraft, or any surface of land or water that is
actually being used for any of those purposes.
      FIREARM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
      SPRING-OPERATED GUN. Means a hand pistol or rifle that propels a
projectile not less than four or more than five millimeters in diameter by
means of a spring.
   (B)   No person shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly throw an object at, or drop an object upon, any moving
aircraft.
      (2)   Knowingly shoot with a bow and arrow, or knowingly discharge a
firearm, air gun, or spring-operated gun, at or toward any aircraft.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly or recklessly shoot with a bow and arrow, or
shall knowingly or recklessly discharge a firearm, air gun, or spring-operated
gun, upon or over any airport operational surface. This division does not apply
to the following:
      (1)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or of the
United States, or a law enforcement officer, authorized to discharge firearms
and acting within the scope of his or her duties.
      (2)   A person who, with the consent of the owner or operator of the
airport operational surface or the authorized agent of either, is lawfully
engaged in any hunting or sporting activity or is otherwise lawfully
discharging a firearm.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of endangering
aircraft, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation creates any risk
of physical harm to any person, or if the aircraft that is the subject of the
violation is occupied, endangering aircraft is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of endangering
airport operations, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the violation
creates a risk of physical harm to any person or substantial risk of serious
harm to any person, endangering airport operations is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. In addition to any other penalty or sanction
imposed for the violation, the hunting license or permit of a person who
violates division (C) of this section while hunting shall be suspended or
revoked pursuant to R.C. § 1533.68.
(R.C. § 2909.08(A) - (E)) (Rev. 1999)
§ 131.06 CRIMINAL TRESPASS; AGGRAVATED TRESPASS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another;
      (2)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, the
use of which is lawfully restricted to certain persons, purposes, modes, or
hours, when the offender knows the offender is in violation of any such
restriction or is reckless in that regard;
      (3)   Recklessly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, as
to which notice against unauthorized access or presence is given by actual
communication to the offender, or in a manner prescribed by law, or by posting
in a manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential
intruders, or by fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to restrict
access;
      (4)   Being on the land or premises of another, negligently fail or
refuse to leave upon being notified by signage posted in a conspicuous place or
otherwise being notified to do so by the owner or occupant, or the agent or
servant of either;
      (5)   Knowingly enter or remain on a critical infrastructure facility.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the land or
premises involved was owned, controlled, or in custody of a public agency.
   (C)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the offender was
authorized to enter or remain on the land or premises involved, when the
authorization was secured by deception.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal trespass.
Criminal trespass in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Criminal trespass in
violation of division (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28, if the person, in committing the
violation of this section, used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-
purpose vehicle, the court shall impose a fine of two times the usual amount
imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to two or more violations of this section, R.C. § 2911.21 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and the offender, in committing each violation,
used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle, the court,
in addition to or independent of all other penalties imposed for the violation,
may impound the certificate of registration of that snowmobile or off-highway
motorcycle or the certificate of registration and license plate of that all-
purpose vehicle for not less than 60 days. In such a case, R.C. § 4519.47
applies.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, if the
offender, in committing the violation of this section, used an all-purpose
vehicle, the Clerk of the Court shall pay the fine imposed pursuant to this
section to the State Recreational Vehicle Fund created by R.C. § 4519.11.
   (F)   As used in divisions (A) through (E) of this section:
      ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLE, OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE, and SNOWMOBILE. Have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4519.01.
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Means:
         (a)   One of the following, if completely enclosed by a fence or other
physical barrier that is obviously designed to exclude intruders, or if clearly
marked with signs that are reasonably likely to come to the attention of
potential intruders and that indicate entry is forbidden without site
authorization:
            1.   A petroleum or alumina refinery;
            2.   An electric generating facility, substation, switching
station, electrical control center, or electric transmission and distribution
lines and associated equipment;
            3.   A chemical, polymer, or rubber manufacturing facility;
            4.   A water intake structure, water treatment facility, waste
water facility, drainage facility, water management facility, or any similar
water or sewage treatment system and its water and sewage piping;
            5.   A natural gas company facility or interstate natural gas
pipeline, including a pipeline interconnection, a natural gas compressor
station and associated facilities, city gate or town border station, metering
station, above-ground piping, regulator station, valve site, delivery station,
fabricated assembly, or any other part of a natural gas storage facility
involved in the gathering, storage, transmission, or distribution of gas;
            6.   A telecommunications central switching office or remote
switching facility or an equivalent network facility that serves a similar
purpose;
            7.   Wireline or wireless telecommunications infrastructure,
including telecommunications towers and telephone poles and lines, including
fiber optic lines;
            8.   A port, trucking terminal, or other freight transportation
facility;
            9.   A gas processing plant, including a plant used in the
processing, treatment, or fractionation of natural gas or natural gas liquids;
            10.   A transmission facility used by a federally licensed radio or
television station;
            11.   A steel-making facility that uses an electric arc furnace to
make steel;
            12.   A facility identified and regulated by the United States
Department of Homeland Security’s Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards
Program under 6 C.F.R. part 27;
            13.   A dam that is regulated by the state or federal government;
            14.   A crude oil or refined products storage and distribution
facility, including valve sites, pipeline interconnections, pump station,
metering station, below- or above-ground pipeline, or piping and truck loading
or off-loading facility;
            15.   A video service network and broadband infrastructure,
including associated buildings and facilities, video service headends, towers,
utility poles, and utility lines such as fiber optic lines. As used in this
division, “video service network” has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
            16.   Any above-ground portion of an oil, gas, hazardous liquid or
chemical pipeline, tank, or other storage facility;
            17.   Any above-ground portion of a well, well pad, or production
operation;
            18.   A laydown area or construction site for pipe and other
equipment intended for use on an interstate or intrastate natural gas or crude
oil pipeline;
            19.   Any mining operation, including any processing equipment,
batching operation, or support facility for that mining operation.
         (b)   With respect to a video service network or broadband or wireless
telecommunications infrastructure, the above-ground portion of a facility
installed in a public right-of-way on a utility pole or in a conduit;
         (c)   Any railroad property;
         (d)   An electronic asset of any of the following:
            1.   An electric light company that is a public utility under R.C.
§ 4905.02;
            2.   An electric cooperative, as defined in R.C. § 4928.01;
            3.   A municipal electric utility, as defined in R.C. § 4928.01;
            4.   A natural gas company that is a public utility under R.C. §
4905.02;
            5.   A telephone company that is a public utility under R.C. §
4905.02;
            6.   A video service provider, including a cable operator, as those
terms are defined in R.C. § 1332.21.
      ELECTRONIC ASSET. Includes, but is not limited to, the hardware,
software, and data of a programmable electronic device; all communications,
operations, and customer data networks; and the contents of those data
networks.
      LAND or PREMISES. Includes any land, building, structure, or place
belonging to, controlled by, or in custody of another, and any separate
enclosure or room, or portion thereof.
      PRODUCTION OPERATION, WELL, and WELL PAD. Have the same meanings as in
R.C. § 1509.01.
(R.C. § 2911.21) (Rev. 2022)
   (G)   Aggravated trespass.
      (1)   (a)   No person shall enter or remain on the land or premises of
another with purpose to commit on that land or those premises a misdemeanor,
the elements of which involve causing physical harm to another person or
causing another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to
that person.
         (b)   No person shall enter or remain on a critical infrastructure
facility with purpose to destroy or tamper with the facility.
      (2)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of aggravated trespass.
Aggravated trespass in violation of division (G)(1)(a) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Aggravated trespass in violation of division
(G)(1)(b) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (3)   As used in this division (G), CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 2911.21.
(R.C. § 2911.211) (Rev. 2022)
   (H)   Criminal trespass on a place of public amusement.
      (1)   As used in this division (H), PLACE OF PUBLIC AMUSEMENT means a
stadium, theater, or other facility, whether licensed or not, at which a live
performance, sporting event, or other activity takes place for entertainment of
the public and to which access is made available to the public, regardless of
whether admission is charged.
      (2)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly enter or
remain on any restricted portion of a place of public amusement and, as a
result of that conduct, interrupt or cause the delay of the live performance,
sporting event, or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement
after a printed written notice has been given as provided in division (H)(4)(a)
of this section that the general public is restricted from access to that
restricted portion of the place of public amusement. A restricted portion of a
place of public amusement may include but is not limited to a playing field, an
athletic surface, or a stage located at the place of public amusement.
      (3)   An owner or lessee of a place of public amusement, an agent of the
owner or lessee, or a performer or participant at a place of public amusement
may use reasonable force to restrain and remove a person from a restricted
portion of the place of public amusement if the person enters or remains on the
restricted portion of the place of public amusement and, as a result of that
conduct, interrupts or causes the delay of the live performance, sporting
event, or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement. This
division does not provide immunity from criminal liability for any use of force
beyond reasonable force by an owner or lessee of a place of public amusement,
an agent of either the owner or lessee, or a performer or participant at a
place of public amusement.
      (4)   (a)   Notice has been given that the general public is restricted
from access to a portion of a place of public amusement if a printed written
notice of the restricted access has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at
the entrance to that portion of the place of public amusement. If a printed
written notice is posted or exhibited as described in this division regarding a
portion of a place of public amusement, in addition to that posting or
exhibition, notice that the general public is restricted from access to that
portion of the place of public amusement also may be given, but is not required
to be given, by either of the following means:
            1.   By notifying the person personally, either orally or in
writing, that access to that portion of the place of public amusement is
restricted;
            2.   By broadcasting over the public address system of the place of
public amusement an oral warning that access to that portion of the place of
public amusement is restricted.
         (b)   If notice that the general public is restricted from access to a
portion of a place of public amusement is provided by the posting or exhibition
of a printed written notice as described in division (H)(4)(a) of this section,
the municipality, in a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (H)(2)
of this section, is not required to prove that the defendant received actual
notice that the general public is restricted from access to a portion of a
place of public amusement.
      (5)   (a)   Whoever violates division (H)(2) of this section is guilty of
criminal trespass on a place of public amusement, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
         (b)   In addition to any jail term, fine, or other sentence, penalty,
or sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to division (H)(5)(a) of this
section, a court may require an offender who violates this section to perform
not less than 30 and not more than 120 hours of supervised community service
work.
(R.C. § 2911.23) (Rev. 2007)
Cross-reference:
Jurisdictional limitation on Mayor regarding violations of division (G) of this
section, see §
33.01(E)
Violation of protection orders, see §
135.23
§ 131.07 TAMPERING WITH COIN MACHINES.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to commit theft or to defraud, shall knowingly
enter, force an entrance into, tamper with, or insert any part of an instrument
into any coin machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with coin
machines, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of this section or of any theft offense as
defined in R.C. § 2913.01, tampering with coin machines is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2911.32) (Rev. 1999)
§ 131.08 THEFT.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to deprive the owner of property or services,
shall knowingly obtain or exert control over either the property or services in
any of the following ways:
      (1)   Without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give
consent;
      (2)   Beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of the owner or
person authorized to give consent;
      (3)   By deception;
      (4)   By threat;
      (5)   By intimidation.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of theft. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, a violation of this section is petty theft, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If any of the following criteria are met, then
a violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law:
      (1)   If the value of the property or services is $1,000 or more;
      (2)   If the property stolen is any of the property listed in R.C. §
2913.71;
      (3)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person, disabled adult,
active duty service member, or spouse of an active duty service member;
      (4)   If the property stolen is a firearm or dangerous ordnance;
      (5)   If the property stolen is a motor vehicle;
      (6)   If the property stolen is any dangerous drug, or if the offender
previously has been convicted of a felony drug abuse offense;
      (7)   If the property stolen is a police dog or horse or an assistance
dog and the offender knows or should know that the property stolen is a police
dog or horse or an assistance dog;
      (8)   If the property stolen is anhydrous ammonia; or
      (9)    If the property stolen is a special purchase article as defined in
R.C. § 4737.04 or is a bulk merchandise container as defined in R.C. §
4737.012.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties described in division (B) of this
section, if the offender committed the violation by causing a motor vehicle to
leave the premises of an establishment at which gasoline is offered for retail
sale without the offender making full payment for gasoline that was dispensed
into the fuel tank of the motor vehicle or into another container, the court
may do one of the following:
      (1)   Unless division (C)(2) of this section applies, suspend for not
more than six months the offenders driver’s license, probationary driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or
nonresident operating privilege;
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s license, probationary driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or nonresident
operating privilege has previously been suspended pursuant to division (C)(1)
of this section, or any other substantially equivalent state or local law,
impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s license, permit, or privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7), provided that the suspension
shall be at least six months;
      (3)   The court, in lieu of suspending the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, probationary driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or nonresident operating privilege pursuant to division (C)
(1) or (C)(2) of this section, instead may require the offender to perform
community service for a number of hours determined by the court.
   (D)   In addition to the penalties described in division (B) of this
section, if the offender committed the violation by stealing rented property or
rental services, the court may order that the offender make restitution
pursuant to R.C. § 2929.18 or R.C. § 2929.28. Restitution may include, but is
not limited to, the cost of repairing or replacing the stolen property, or the
cost of repairing the stolen property and any loss of revenue resulting from
deprivation of the property due to theft of rental services that is less than
or equal to the actual value of the property at the time it was rented.
Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental services shall
be determined pursuant to the provisions of R.C. § 2913.72.
   (E)   The sentencing court that suspends an offender’s license, permit, or
nonresident operating privilege under division (C) of this section may grant
the offender limited driving privileges during the period of the suspension in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 4510.
(R.C. § 2913.02) (Rev. 2015)
Statutory reference:
Felony theft provisions, see R.C. § 2913.02(B)
§ 131.09 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF A VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorcycle, motorboat, or other motor-propelled vehicle without the consent of
the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorboat, or other motor-propelled vehicle without the consent of the owner or
person authorized to give consent, and either remove it from this state, or
keep possession of it for more than 48 hours.
   (C)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section:
      (1)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor, though mistaken,
reasonably believed that he or she was authorized to use or operate the
property.
      (2)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor reasonably believed
that the owner or person empowered to give consent would authorize the actor to
use or operate the property.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unauthorized use of a
vehicle.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (D)(1), a violation
of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled adult and if the victim
incurs a loss as a result of the violation, a violation of division (A) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.03) (Rev. 2000)
Statutory reference:
Theft offense involving a motor vehicle, offender to pay towing and storage
fees, see R.C. § 2913.82
§ 131.10 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PROPERTY, INCLUDING TELECOMMUNICATION PROPERTY AND
COMPUTERS; POSSESSION OF MUNICIPAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly use or operate the property of another
without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (B)   No person, in any manner and by any means, including but not limited
to computer hacking, shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
or cause access to be gained to any computer, computer system, computer
network, cable service, cable system, telecommunications device,
telecommunications service, or information service without the consent of, or
beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of, the owner of the
computer, computer system, computer network, cable service, cable system,
telecommunications device, telecommunications service, or information service
or other person authorized to give consent.
   (C)   Except as permitted under R.C. § 5503.101, no person shall knowingly
gain access to, attempt to gain access to, cause access to be granted to, or
disseminate information gained from access to the law enforcement automated
database system created pursuant to R.C. § 5503.10 without the consent of, or
beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of, the chair of the Law
Enforcement Automated Data System Steering Committee.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
cause access to be granted to, or disseminate information gained from access to
the Ohio law enforcement gateway established and operated pursuant to R.C. §
109.57(C)(1) without the consent of, or beyond the scope of the express or
implied consent of, the Superintendent of the Bureau of Criminal Identification
and Investigation.
   (E)   The affirmative defenses contained in R.C. § 2913.03(C) are
affirmative defenses to a charge under this section.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of property. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
unauthorized use of property is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (1)   If unauthorized use of property is committed for the purpose of
devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to obtain property or services,
unauthorized use of property is whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided below, unauthorized use of property
is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the value of the property or services or the loss to the
victim is $1,000 or more, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (2)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, unauthorized use of property is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of computer, cable, or telecommunication property, a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (H)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of the law enforcement automated database system, a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of the Ohio law enforcement gateway, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      CABLE OPERATOR. Means any person or group of persons that does either of
the following:
         (a)   Provides cable service over a cable system and directly through
one or more affiliates owns a significant interest in that cable system;
         (b)   Otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any
arrangement, the management and operation of a cable system.
      CABLE SERVICE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming or
of information that a cable operator makes available to all subscribers
generally;
         (b)   Subscriber interaction, if any, that is required for the
selection or use of video programming or of information that a cable operator
makes available to all subscribers generally, both as described in division (a)
of this definition;
         (c)   Any cable television service.
      CABLE SYSTEM. Means any facility, consisting of a set of closed
transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception, and control
equipment that is designed to provide cable service that includes video
programming and that is provided to multiple subscribers within a community.
The term does not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any facility that serves only to retransmit the television
signals of one or more television broadcast stations;
         (b)   Any facility that serves subscribers without using any public
right-of-way;
         (c)   Any facility of a common carrier that, under 47 U.S.C. § 522(7)
(c), is excluded from the term “cable system” as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(7);
         (d)   Any open video system that complies with 47 U.S.C. § 573;
         (e)   Any facility of any electric utility used solely for operating
its electric utility system.
(R.C. § 2913.04) (Rev. 2019)
   (K)   Possession of municipal property.
      (1)   No person shall, without being authorized, have in his or her
control or possession any equipment, tools, implements or other property
belonging to the municipality.
(R.C. § 5589.12)
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (K) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B)) (Rev. 2002)
Statutory reference:
Telecommunications: fraud and unlawful use of a device, felony offenses, see
R.C. §§ 2913.05 and 2913.06
§ 131.11 PASSING BAD CHECKS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CHECK. Includes any form of debit from a demand deposit account,
including but not limited to any of the following:
         (a)   A check, bill of exchange, draft, order of withdrawal, or
similar negotiable or non-negotiable instrument;
         (b)   An electronic check, electronic transaction, debit card
transaction, check card transaction, substitute check, web check, or any form
of automated clearing house transaction.
      ISSUE A CHECK. Means causing any form of debit from a demand deposit
account.
   (B)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall issue or transfer or cause
to be issued or transferred a check or other negotiable instrument, knowing
that it will be dishonored or knowing that a person has ordered or will order
stop payment on the check or other negotiable instrument.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, a person who issues or transfers a check
or other negotiable instrument is presumed to know that it will be dishonored
if either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The drawer has no account with the drawee at the time of issue or
the stated date, whichever is later.
      (2)   The check or other negotiable instrument was properly refused
payment for insufficient funds upon presentment within 30 days after issue or
the stated date, whichever is later, and the liability of the drawer, indorser,
or any party who may be liable thereon is not discharged by payment or
satisfaction within ten days after receiving notice of dishonor.
   (D)   In determining the value of the payment for purposes of division (E)
of this section, the court may aggregate all checks and other negotiable
instruments that the offender issued or transferred or caused to be issued or
transferred in violation of division (B) of this section within a period of 180
consecutive days.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of passing bad checks. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, passing bad checks is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the check or checks or other negotiable instrument or
instruments are issued or transferred to a single vendor or single other person
for the payment of $1,000 or more, or if the check or checks or other
negotiable instrument or instruments are issued or transferred to multiple
vendors or persons for the payment of $1,500 or more, passing bad checks is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.11) (Rev. 2022)
§ 131.12 MISUSE OF CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Practice deception for the purpose of procuring the issuance of a
credit card, when a credit card is issued in actual reliance thereon;
      (2)   Knowingly buy or sell a credit card from or to a person other than
the issuer;
      (3)   As an officer, employee, or appointee of a political subdivision or
as a public servant as defined under R.C. § 2921.01, knowingly misuse a credit
card account held by a political subdivision.
   (B)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Obtain control over a credit card as security for a debt;
      (2)   Obtain property or services by the use of a credit card, in one or
more transactions, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the card
has expired or been revoked, or was obtained, is retained, or is being used in
violation of law;
      (3)   Furnish property or services upon presentation of a credit card,
knowing that the card is being used in violation of law;
      (4)   Represent or cause to be represented to the issuer of a credit card
that property or services have been furnished, knowing that the representation
is false.
   (C)   No person, with purpose to violate this section, shall receive,
possess, control, or dispose of a credit card.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misuse of credit cards.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section, a
violation of division (A), (B)(1), or (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division or division (D)(3) of
this section, a violation of division (B)(2), (B)(3), or (B)(4) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the cumulative retail value of the
property and services involved in one or more violations of division (B)(2),
(B)(3), or (B)(4) of this section which violations involve one or more credit
card accounts and occur within a period of 90 consecutive days commencing on
the date of the first violation, is $1,000 or more, misuse of credit cards is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, and if the offense involves a violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of
this section, misuse of credit cards is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.21) (Rev. 2019)
§ 131.13 MAKING OR USING SLUGS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Insert or deposit a slug in a coin machine, with purpose to
defraud;
      (2)   Make, possess, or dispose of a slug, with purpose of enabling
another to defraud by inserting or depositing it in a coin machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or using slugs, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2913.33)
§ 131.14 PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE OF PURPOSE TO DEFRAUD.
   In a prosecution of a person for a theft offense that alleges that the
person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she was facilitating a
fraud, hired or rented an aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat,
sailboat, camper, trailer, horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, kept
or operated any of the same that has been hired or rented, or engaged
accommodations at a hotel, motel, inn, campground, or other hostelry, it is
prima facie evidence of purpose to defraud if the person did any of the
following:
   (A)   Used deception to induce the rental agency to furnish the person with
the aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat, sailboat, camper, trailer,
horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, or used deception to induce the
hostelry to furnish the person with accommodations;
   (B)   Hired or rented any aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat,
sailboat, camper, trailer, horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, or
engaged accommodations, knowing that he or she is without sufficient means to
pay the hire or rental;
   (C)   Absconded without paying the hire or rental;
   (D)   Knowingly failed to pay the hire or rental as required by the contract
of hire or rental, without reasonable excuse for the failure;
   (E)   Knowingly failed to return hired or rented property as required by the
contract of hire or rental, without reasonable excuse for the failure.
(R.C. § 2913.41) (Rev. 2001)
§ 131.15 TAMPERING WITH RECORDS.
   (A)   No person, knowing that he or she has no privilege to do so, and with
purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is facilitating a fraud, shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Falsify, destroy, remove, conceal, alter, deface, or mutilate any
writing, computer software, data, or record;
      (2)   Utter any writing or record, knowing it to have been tampered with
as provided in division (A)(1) of this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with records.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if the
offense does not involve data or computer software, tampering with records is
whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   If division (B)(1)(b) of this section does not apply, it is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the writing or record is a will unrevoked at the time of the
offense, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if the
offense involves a violation of division (A) of this section involving data or
computer software, tampering with records is whichever of the following is
applicable:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this
section, it is a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         (b)   If the value of the data or computer software involved in the
offense or the loss to the victim is $1,000 or more or if the offense is
committed for the purpose of devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to
obtain property or services and the value of the property or services or the
loss to the victim is $7,500 or more, it is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the writing, data, computer software, or record is kept by or
belongs to a local, state, or federal governmental entity, it is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.42) (Rev. 2012)
§ 131.16 SECURING WRITINGS BY DECEPTION.
   (A)   No person, by deception, shall cause another to execute any writing
that disposes of or encumbers property, or by which a pecuniary obligation is
incurred.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of securing writings by
deception. Except as otherwise provided in this division, securing writings by
deception is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property or
the obligation involved is $1,000 or more, securing writings by deception is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate to state law. If the victim of the
offense is an elderly person, disabled adult, active duty service member, or
spouse of an active duty service member, securing writings by deception is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.43) (Rev. 2015)
§ 131.17 DEFRAUDING CREDITORS.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud one or more of his or her
creditors, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Remove, conceal, destroy, encumber, convey, or otherwise deal with
any of his or her property;
      (2)   Misrepresent or refuse to disclose to a fiduciary appointed to
administer or manage his or her affairs or estate, the existence, amount, or
location of any of his or her property, or any other information regarding the
property which he or she is legally required to furnish to the fiduciary.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of defrauding creditors.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, defrauding creditors is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property involved is
$1,000 or more, defrauding creditors is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.45) (Rev. 2012)
§ 131.18 RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall receive, retain, or dispose of property of another
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the property has been
obtained through commission of a theft offense.
   (B)   It is not a defense to a charge of receiving stolen property in
violation of this section that the property was obtained by means other than
through the commission of a theft offense if the property was explicitly
represented to the accused person as being obtained through the commission of a
theft offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of receiving stolen property.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, receiving stolen property is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If any of the following criteria are met, then
a violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law:
      (1)   The value of the property involved is $1,000 or more;
      (2)   The property involved is any of the property listed in R.C. §
2913.71;
      (3)   The property involved is a firearm or dangerous ordnance, as
defined in R.C. § 2923.11;
      (4)   The property involved is a motor vehicle as defined in R.C. §
4501.01;
      (5)   The property involved is any dangerous drug, as defined in R.C. §
4729.01; or
      (6)   The property involved in violation of this section is a special
purchase article as defined in R.C. § 4737.04 or a bulk merchandise container
as defined in R.C. § 4737.012.
(R.C. § 2913.51) (Rev. 2014)
§ 131.19 VALUE OF STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (A)   If more than one item of property or services is involved in a theft
offense or in a violation of R.C. § 1716.14(A) involving a victim who is an
elderly person or disabled adult, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, the value of the property or services involved for the purpose of
determining the value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value
of all property or services involved in the offense.
   (B)   (1)   When a series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02, or a series of
violations of, attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or
complicity in violations of R.C. § 1716.14(A), R.C. § 2913.02, 2913.03, or
2913.04, R.C. § 2913.21(B)(1) or (B)(2), or R.C. § 2913.31 or 2913.43 involving
a victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, is committed by the
offender in the offender’s same employment, capacity, or relationship to
another, all of those offenses shall be tried as a single offense. When a
series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02, or a series of violations of, attempts
to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations
of R.C. § 2913.02 or 2913.43 involving a victim who is an active duty service
member or spouse of an active duty service member, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, is committed by the
offender in the offender’s same employment, capacity, or relationship to
another, all of those offenses shall be tried as a single offense. The value of
the property or services involved in the series of offenses for the purpose of
determining the value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value
of all property and services involved in all offenses in the series.
      (2)   If an offender commits a series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02
that involves a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims, all of
the offenses may be tried as a single offense. If an offender is being tried
for the commission of a series of violations of, attempts to commit a violation
of, conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations of R.C. § 1716.14(A),
R.C. § 2913.02, 2913.03, or 2913.04, R.C. § 2913.21(B)(1) or (B)(2), or R.C. §
2913.31 or 2913.43, whether committed against one victim or more than one
victim, involving a victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, pursuant
to a scheme or course of conduct, all of those offenses may be tried as a
single offense. If an offender is being tried for the commission of a series of
violations of, attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or
complicity in violations of R.C. § 2913.02 or 2913.43, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, whether committed
against one victim or more than one victim, involving a victim who is an active
duty service member or spouse of an active duty service member pursuant to a
scheme or course of conduct, all of those offenses may be tried as a single
offense. If the offenses are tried as a single offense, the value of the
property or services involved for the purpose of determining the value as
required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property and
services involved in all of the offenses in the course of conduct.
      (3)   When a series of two or more offenses under R.C. § 2913.40,
2913.48, or 2921.41 is committed by the offender in the offender’s same
employment, capacity, or relationship to another, all of those offenses may be
tried as a single offense. If the offenses are tried as a single offense, the
value of the property or services involved for the purpose of determining the
value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property
and services involved in all of the offenses in the series of two or more
offenses.
      (4)   In prosecuting a single offense under division (B)(1), (B)(2) or
(B)(3) of this section, it is not necessary to separately allege and prove each
offense in the series. Rather, it is sufficient to allege and prove that the
offender, within a given span of time, committed one or more theft offenses or
violations of R.C. § 2913.40, 2913.48, or 2921.41 in the offender’s same
employment, capacity, or relationship to another as described in division (B)
(1) or (B)(3) of this section, or committed one or more theft offenses that
involve a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims or a scheme or
course of conduct as described in division (B)(2) of this section. While it is
not necessary to separately allege and prove each offense in the series in
order to prosecute a single offense under division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of
this section, it remains necessary in prosecuting them as a single offense to
prove the aggregate value of the property or services in order to meet the
requisite statutory offense level sought by the prosecution.
   (C)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   The value of an heirloom, memento, collector’s item, antique,
museum piece, manuscript, document, record, or other thing that has intrinsic
worth to its owner and that either is irreplaceable or is replaceable only on
the expenditure of substantial time, effort, or money, is the amount which
would compensate the owner for its loss.
      (2)   The value of personal effects and household goods, and of
materials, supplies, equipment, and fixtures used in the profession, business,
trade, occupation, or avocation of its owner, which property is not covered
under division (C)(1) of this section, and which retains substantial utility
for its purpose regardless of its age or condition, is the cost of replacing
such property with new property of like kind and quality.
      (3)   The value of any real or personal property that is not covered
under division (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section, and the value of services, is
the fair market value of the property or services. As used in this section,
FAIR MARKET VALUE is the money consideration which a buyer would give and a
seller would accept for property or services, assuming that the buyer is
willing to buy and the seller is willing to sell, that both are fully informed
as to all facts material to the transaction, and that neither is under any
compulsion to act.
   (D)   Without limitation on the evidence which may be used to establish the
value of property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   When the property involved is personal property held for sale at
wholesale or retail, the price at which the property was held for sale is prima
facie evidence of its value.
      (2)   When the property involved is a security or commodity traded on an
exchange, the closing price or, if there is no closing price, the asked price,
given in the latest marked quotation prior to the offense, is prima facie
evidence of the value of the security or commodity.
      (3)   When the property involved is livestock, poultry, or raw
agricultural products for which a local market price is available, the latest
local market price prior to the offense is prima facie evidence of the value of
the livestock, poultry, or products.
      (4)   When the property involved is a negotiable instrument, the face
value is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (5)   When the property involved is a warehouse receipt, bill of lading,
pawn ticket, claim check, or other instrument entitling the holder or bearer to
receive property, the face value or, if there is no face value, the value of
the property covered by the instrument less any payment necessary to receive
the property, is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (6)   When the property involved is a ticket of admission, ticket for
transportation, coupon, token, or other instrument entitling the holder or
bearer to receive property or services, the face value or, if there is no face
value, the value of the property or services which may be received by the
instrument is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (7)   When the services involved are gas, electricity, water, telephone,
transportation, shipping, or other services for which the rate is established
by law, the duly established rate is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services.
      (8)   When the services involved are services for which the rate is not
established by law, and the offender has been notified prior to the offense of
the rate for the services, either in writing, or orally, or by posting in a
manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential offenders,
the rate contained in the notice is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services.
(R.C. § 2913.61(B) - (E)) (Rev. 2015)
§ 131.20 DEGREE OF OFFENSE WHEN CERTAIN PROPERTY INVOLVED.
   Regardless of the value of the property involved, and regardless of whether
the offender previously has been convicted of a theft offense, a violation of §
131.08 or §
131.18 is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the property
involved is any of the following:
   (A)   A credit card;
   (B)   A printed form for a check or other negotiable instrument, that on its
face identifies the drawer or maker for whose use it is designed or identifies
the account on which it is to be drawn, and that has not been executed by the
drawer or maker or on which the amount is blank;
   (C)   A motor vehicle identification license plate as prescribed by R.C. §
4503.22, a temporary motor vehicle license registration as prescribed by R.C. §
4503.182, or any comparable temporary motor vehicle license registration as
prescribed by the applicable law of another state or the United States;
   (D)   A blank form for a certificate of title or a manufacturer’s or
importer’s certificate to a motor vehicle, as prescribed by R.C. § 4505.07;
   (E)   A blank form for any license listed in R.C. § 4507.01.
(R.C. § 2913.71) (Rev. 2022)
§ 131.21 INJURING VINES, BUSHES, TREES, OR CROPS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall recklessly cut down,
destroy, girdle, or otherwise injure a vine, bush, shrub, sapling, tree, or
crop standing or growing on the land of another or upon public land.
   (B)   In addition to the penalty provided in division (C) of this section,
whoever violates this section is liable in treble damages for the injury
caused.
(R.C. § 901.51)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 901.99(A))
§ 131.22 DETENTION AND ARREST OF SHOPLIFTERS AND THOSE COMMITTING MOTION
PICTURE PIRACY; PROTECTION OF INSTITUTIONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ARCHIVAL INSTITUTION. Means any public or private building, structure, or
shelter in which are stored historical documents, devices, records,
manuscripts, or items of public interest, which historical materials are stored
to preserve the materials or the information in the materials, to disseminate
the information contained in the materials, or to make the materials available
for public inspection or for inspection by certain persons who have a
particular interest in, use for, or knowledge concerning the materials.
      AUDIOVISUAL RECORDING FUNCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2913.07.
      FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.07.
      MUSEUM. Means any public or private nonprofit institution that is
permanently organized for primarily educational or aesthetic purposes, owns or
borrows objects or items of public interest, and cares for and exhibits to the
public the objects or items.
      PRETRIAL DIVERSION PROGRAM. Means a rehabilitative, educational program
designed to reduce recidivism and promote personal responsibility that is at
least four hours in length and that has been approved by any court in this
state.
   (B)   A merchant, or an employee or agent of a merchant, who has probable
cause to believe that things offered for sale by a mercantile establishment
have been unlawfully taken by a person, may, for the purposes set forth in
division (D) below, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable
length of time within the mercantile establishment or its immediate vicinity.
   (C)   Any officer, employee, or agent of a library, museum, or archival
institution may, for the purposes set forth in division (D) below or for the
purpose of conducting a reasonable investigation of a belief that the person
has acted in a manner described in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) below, detain a
person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of time within, or in the
immediate vicinity of, the library, museum, or archival institution, if the
officer, employee, or agent has probable cause to believe that the person has:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly moved, defaced, damaged,
destroyed, or otherwise improperly tampered with property owned by or in the
custody of the library, museum, or archival institution; or
      (2)   With purpose to deprive the library, museum, or archival
institution of property owned by it or in its custody, knowingly obtained or
exerted control over the property without the consent of the owner or person
authorized to give consent, beyond the scope of the express or implied consent
of the owner or person authorized to give consent, by deception, or by threat.
   (D)   An officer, agent, or employee of a library, museum, or archival
institution pursuant to division (C) above or a merchant or an employee or
agent of a merchant pursuant to division (B) above may detain another person
for any of the following purposes:
      (1)   To recover the property that is the subject of the unlawful taking,
criminal mischief, or theft;
      (2)   To cause an arrest to be made by a peace officer;
      (3)   To obtain a warrant of arrest;
      (4)   To offer the person, if the person is suspected of the unlawful
taking, criminal mischief, or theft and notwithstanding any other provision of
this Code or the Ohio Revised Code, an opportunity to complete a pretrial
diversion program and to inform the person of the other legal remedies
available to the library, museum, archival institution, or merchant.
   (E)   The owner or lessee of a facility in which a motion picture is being
shown, or the owner’s or lessee’s employee or agent, who has probable cause to
believe that a person is or has been operating an audiovisual recording
function of a device in violation of R.C. § 2917.07 may, for the purpose of
causing an arrest to be made by a peace officer or of obtaining an arrest
warrant, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of
time within the facility or its immediate vicinity.
   (F)   The officer, agent, or employee of the library, museum, or archival
institution, the merchant or an employee or agent of a merchant, or the owner,
lessee, employee, or agent of the facility acting under divisions (B), (C) or
(E) above shall not search the person detained, search or seize any property
belonging to the person detained without the person’s consent, or use undue
restraint upon the person detained.
   (G)   Any peace officer may arrest without a warrant any person that the
officer has probable cause to believe has committed any act described in
divisions (C)(1) or (C)(2) above, that the officer has probable cause to
believe has committed an unlawful taking in a mercantile establishment, or that
the officer has reasonable cause to believe has committed an act prohibited by
R.C. § 2913.07. An arrest under this division shall be made within a reasonable
time after the commission of the act or unlawful taking.
(R.C. § 2935.041) (Rev. 2012)
Statutory reference:
Arrest without a warrant generally, see R.C. § 2935.03
Probable cause, see R.C. § 2933.22
§ 131.23 INSURANCE FRAUD; WORKERS’ COMPENSATION FRAUD; MEDICAID FRAUD.
   (A)   Insurance fraud.
      (1)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   Present to, or cause to be presented to, an insurer any written
or oral statement that is part of, or in support of, an application for
insurance, a claim for payment pursuant to a policy, or a claim for any other
benefit pursuant to a policy, knowing that the statement, or any part of the
statement, is false or deceptive;
         (b)   Assist, aid, abet, solicit, procure, or conspire with another to
prepare or make any written or oral statement that is intended to be presented
to an insurer as part of, or in support of, an application for insurance, a
claim for payment pursuant to a policy, or a claim for any other benefit
pursuant to a policy, knowing that the statement, or any part of the statement,
is false or deceptive.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of insurance fraud.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, insurance fraud is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the amount of the claim that is false or deceptive is
$1,000 or more, insurance fraud is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   This division (A) shall not be construed to abrogate, waive, or
modify R.C. § 2317.02(A).
      (4)   As used in this division (A):
         DATA. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01 and additionally
includes any other representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts,
or instructions that are being or have been prepared in a formalized manner.
         DECEPTIVE. Means that a statement, in whole or in part, would cause
another to be deceived because it contains a misleading representation,
withholds information, prevents the acquisition of information, or by any other
conduct, act, or omission creates, confirms, or perpetuates a false impression,
including but not limited to a false impression as to law, value, state of
mind, or other objective or subjective fact.
         INSURER. Means any person that is authorized to engage in the business
of insurance in this state under R.C. Title 39, the Ohio Fair Plan Underwriting
Association created under R.C. § 3929.43, any health insuring corporation, and
any legal entity that is self-insured and provides benefits to its employees or
members.
         POLICY. Means a policy, certificate, contract, or plan that is issued
by an insurer.
         STATEMENT. Includes but is not limited to any notice, letter, or
memorandum; proof of loss; bill of lading; receipt for payment; invoice,
account, or other financial statement; estimate of property damage; bill for
services; diagnosis or prognosis; prescription; hospital, medical, or dental
chart or other record; x-ray, photograph, videotape, or movie film; test
result; other evidence of loss, injury, or expense; computer-generated
document; and data in any form.
(R.C. § 2913.47) (Rev. 2012)
   (B)   Workers’ compensation fraud.
      (1)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Receive workers’ compensation benefits to which the person is
not entitled;
         (b)   Make or present or cause to be made or presented a false or
misleading statement with the purpose to secure payment for goods or services
rendered under R.C. Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127, or 4131 or to secure workers’
compensation benefits;
         (c)   Alter, falsify, destroy, conceal, or remove any record or
document that is necessary to fully establish the validity of any claim filed
with, or necessary to establish the nature and validity of all goods and
services for which reimbursement or payment was received or is requested from
the Bureau of Workers’ Compensation, or a self-insuring employer under R.C.
Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127, or 4131;
         (d)   Enter into an agreement or conspiracy to defraud the Bureau of
Workers’ Compensation or a self- insuring employer by making or presenting or
causing to be made or presented a false claim for workers’ compensation
benefits;
         (e)   Make or present or cause to be made or presented a false
statement concerning manual codes, classification or employees, payroll, paid
compensation, or number of personnel, when information of that nature is
necessary to determine the actual workers’ compensation premium or assessment
owed to the Bureau by an employer;
         (f)   Alter, forge, or create a workers’ compensation certificate or
falsely show current or correct workers’ compensation coverage;
         (g)   Fail to secure or maintain workers’ compensation coverage as
required by R.C. Chapter 4123 with the intent to defraud the Bureau of Workers’
Compensation.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of workers’
compensation fraud. Except as otherwise provided in this division, workers’
compensation fraud is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of
premiums and assessments unpaid pursuant to actions described in divisions (B)
(1)(e), (B)(1)(f), or (B)(1)(g) of this section, or goods, services, property,
or money stolen is $1,000 or more, workers’ compensation fraud is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Upon application of the governmental body that conducted the
investigation and prosecution of a violation of this division (B), the court
shall order the person who is convicted of the violation to pay the
governmental body its costs of investigating and prosecuting the case. These
costs are in addition to any other costs or penalty provided under federal,
state or local law.
      (4)   The remedies and penalties provided in this division (B) are not
exclusive remedies and penalties and do not preclude the use of any other
criminal or civil remedy or penalty for any act that is in violation of this
division (B).
      (5)   As used in this division (B):
         CLAIM. Means any attempt to cause the Bureau of Workers’ Compensation,
an independent third party with whom the administrator or an employer contracts
under R.C. § 4121.44, or a self-insuring employer to make payment or
reimbursement for workers’ compensation benefits.
         EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4123.01.
         EMPLOYER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4123.01.
         EMPLOYMENT. Means participating in any trade, occupation, business,
service, or profession for substantial gainful remuneration.
         FALSE. Means wholly or partially untrue or deceptive.
         GOODS. Includes but is not limited to medical supplies, appliances,
rehabilitative equipment, and any other apparatus or furnishing provided or
used in the care, treatment, or rehabilitation of a claimant for workers’
compensation benefits.
         RECORDS. Means any medical, professional, financial, or business
record relating to the treatment or care of any person, to goods or services
provided to any person, or to rates paid for goods or services provided to any
person, or any record that the administrator of workers’ compensation requires
pursuant to rule.
         REMUNERATION. Includes but is not limited to wages, commissions,
rebates, and any other reward or consideration.
         SELF-INSURING EMPLOYER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4123.01.
         SERVICES. Includes but is not limited to any service provided by any
health care provider to a claimant for workers’ compensation benefits and any
and all services provided by the Bureau as part of workers’ compensation
insurance coverage.
         STATEMENT. Includes but is not limited to any oral, written,
electronic, electronic impulse, or magnetic communication notice, letter,
memorandum, receipt for payment, invoice, account, financial statement, or bill
for services; a diagnosis, prognosis, prescription, hospital, medical, or
dental chart or other record; and a computer generated document.
         WORKERS’ COMPENSATION BENEFITS. Means any compensation or benefits
payable under R.C. Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127, or 4131.
(R.C. § 2913.48) (Rev. 2012)
   (C)   Medicaid fraud.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a false or
misleading statement or representation for use in obtaining reimbursement from
the Medicaid program.
      (2)   No person, with purpose to commit fraud or knowing that the person
is facilitating a fraud, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   Contrary to the terms of the person’s provider agreement,
charge, solicit, accept or receive for goods or services that the person
provides under the Medicaid program any property, money or other consideration
in addition to the amount of reimbursement under the Medicaid program and the
person’s provider agreement for the goods or services and any cost-sharing
expenses authorized by R.C. § 5162.20 or rules adopted by the Medicaid Director
regarding the Medicaid program.
         (b)   Solicit, offer or receive any remuneration, other than any cost-
sharing expenses authorized by R.C. § 5162.20 or rules adopted by the Medicaid
Director regarding the Medicaid program, in cash or in kind, including but not
limited to a kickback or rebate, in connection with the furnishing of goods or
services for which whole or partial reimbursement is or may be made under the
Medicaid program.
      (3)   No person, having submitted a claim for or provided goods or
services under the Medicaid program, shall do either of the following for a
period of at least six years after a reimbursement pursuant to that claim, or a
reimbursement for those goods or services, is received under the Medicaid
program:
         (a)   Knowingly alter, falsify, destroy, conceal or remove any records
that are necessary to fully disclose the nature of all goods or services for
which the claim was submitted, or for which reimbursement was received, by the
person; or
         (b)   Knowingly alter, falsify, destroy, conceal or remove any records
that are necessary to disclose fully all income and expenditures upon which
rates of reimbursements were based for the person.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (C) is guilty of Medicaid fraud.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, Medicaid fraud is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the value of the property, services or funds obtained
in violation of this section is $1,000 or more, Medicaid fraud is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate State law.
      (5)   Upon application of the governmental agency, office or other entity
that conducted the investigation and prosecution in a case under this section,
the court shall order any person who is convicted of a violation of this
section for receiving any reimbursement for furnishing goods or services under
the Medicaid program to which the person is not entitled to pay to the
applicant its cost of investigating and prosecuting the case. The costs of
investigation and prosecution that a defendant is ordered to pay pursuant to
this division shall be in addition to any other penalties for the receipt of
that reimbursement that are provided in this section, R.C. § 2913.40 or
5164.35, or any other provision of law.
      (6)   The provisions of this section are not intended to be exclusive
remedies and do not preclude the use of any other criminal or civil remedy for
any act that is in violation of this section.
      (7)   As used in this division (C):
         PROVIDER. Means any person who has signed a provider agreement with
the Department of Medicaid to provide goods or services pursuant to the
Medicaid program or any person who has signed an agreement with a party to such
a provider agreement under which the person agrees to provide goods or services
that are reimbursable under the Medicaid program.
         PROVIDER AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
         RECIPIENT. Means any individual who receives goods or services from a
provider under the Medicaid program.
         RECORDS. Means any medical, professional, financial or business
records relating to the treatment or care of any recipient, to goods or
services provided to any recipient, or to rates paid for goods or services
provided to any recipient, and any records that are required by the rules of
the Medicaid Director to be kept for the Medicaid program.
         STATEMENT or REPRESENTATION. Means any oral, written, electronic,
electronic impulse or magnetic communication that is used to identify an item
of goods or a service for which reimbursement may be made under the Medicaid
program or that states income and expense and is or may be used to determine a
rate of reimbursement under the Medicaid program.
(R.C. § 2913.40) (Rev. 2014)
   (D)   Medicaid eligibility fraud.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following in an application
for enrollment in the Medicaid program or in a document that requires a
disclosure of assets for the purpose of determining eligibility for the
Medicaid program:
         (a)   Make or cause to be made a false or misleading statement;
         (b)   Conceal an interest in property;
         (c)   1.   Except as provided in division (D)(1)(c)2. of this section,
fail to disclose a transfer of property that occurred during the period
beginning 36 months before submission of the application or document and ending
on the date the application or document was submitted;
            2.   Fail to disclose a transfer of property that occurred during
the period beginning 60 months before submission of the application or document
and ending on the date the application or document was submitted and that was
made to an irrevocable trust a portion of which is not distributable to the
applicant for or recipient of Medicaid or to a revocable trust.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates this division (D) is guilty of Medicaid
eligibility fraud. Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation
of this division (D) is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the
Medicaid services paid as a result of the violation is $1,000 or more, a
violation of this division (D) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
         (b)   In addition to imposing a sentence under division (D)(2)(a) of
this section, the court shall order that a person who is guilty of Medicaid
eligibility fraud make restitution in the full amount of any Medicaid services
paid on behalf of an applicant for or recipient of Medicaid for which the
applicant or recipient was not eligible, plus interest at the rate applicable
to judgments on unreimbursed amounts from the date on which the Medicaid
services were paid to the date on which restitution is made.
         (c)   The remedies and penalties provided in this division (D) are not
exclusive and do not preclude the use of any other criminal or civil remedy for
any act that is in violation of this division (D).
      (3)   This division (D) does not apply to a person who fully disclosed in
an application for Medicaid or in a document that requires a disclosure of
assets for the purpose of determining eligibility for Medicaid all of the
interests in property of the applicant for or recipient of Medicaid, all
transfers of property by the applicant for or recipient of Medicaid, and the
circumstances of all those transfers.
      (4)   Any amounts of Medicaid services recovered as restitution under
this division (D) and any interest on those amounts shall be credited to the
General Revenue Fund, and any applicable federal share shall be returned to the
appropriate agency or department of the United States.
      (5)   As used in this division (D):
         MEDICAID SERVICES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
         PROPERTY. Means any real or personal property or other asset in which
a person has any legal title or interest.
(R.C. § 2913.401) (Rev. 2014)
§ 131.24 INJURY TO PROPERTY BY HUNTERS.
   (A)   No person in the act of hunting, pursuing, taking, or killing a wild
animal shall act in a negligent, careless, or reckless manner so as to injure
property.
(R.C. § 1533.171(A)) (Rev. 1999)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 1533.99(C))
Statutory reference:
Violation, license revocation, see R.C. § 1533.171(B) through (E)
§ 131.25 EVIDENCE OF INTENT TO COMMIT THEFT OF RENTED PROPERTY OR RENTAL
SERVICES; EVIDENCE OF LACK OF CAPACITY TO CONSENT.
   (A)   Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental
services.
      (1)   As used in this division (A):
         RENTER. Means a person who owns rented property.
         RENTEE. Means a person who pays consideration to a renter for the use
of rented property.
      (2)   Each of the following shall be considered evidence of intent to
commit theft of rented property or rental services:
         (a)   At the time of entering into the rental contract, the rentee
presented the renter with identification that was materially false, fictitious,
or not current with respect to name, address, place of employment, or other
relevant information.
         (b)   After receiving a notice demanding the return of the rented
property as provided in division (A)(3) of this section, the rentee neither
returned the rented property nor made arrangements acceptable with the renter
to return the rented property.
      (3)   To establish that a rentee has an intent to commit theft of rented
property or rental services under division (A)(2)(b) above, a renter may issue
a notice to a rentee demanding the return of the rented property. The renter
shall mail the notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
rentee at the address the rentee gave when the rental contract was executed, or
to the rentee at the last address the rentee or the rentee’s agent furnished in
writing to the renter.
      (4)   A demand for the return of the rented property is not a
prerequisite for the prosecution of a rentee for theft of rented property or
rental services. The evidence specified in division (A)(2) above does not
constitute the only evidence that may be considered as evidence of intent to
commit theft of rented property or rental services.
(R.C. § 2913.72) (Rev. 2010)
   (B)   Evidence of lack of capacity to consent.
      (1)   In a prosecution for any alleged violation of §
131.08 through 131.20, 131.23, 131.25 through 131.29, or 132.11, if the lack of
consent of the victim is an element of the provision that allegedly was
violated, evidence that, at the time of the alleged violation, the victim
lacked the capacity to give consent is admissible to show that the victim did
not give consent.
      (2)   As used in this section, LACKS THE CAPACITY TO CONSENT means being
impaired for any reason to the extent that the person lacks sufficient
understanding or capacity to make and carry out reasonable decisions concerning
the person or the person’s resources.
(R.C. § 2913.73) (Rev. 2008)
§ 131.26 FORGERY OF IDENTIFICATION CARDS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do either of the following:
      (1)   Forge an identification card.
      (2)   Sell or otherwise distribute a card that purports to be an
identification card, knowing it was forged.
   (B)   As used in this section, IDENTIFICATION CARD means a card that
includes personal information or characteristics of an individual, a purpose of
which is to establish the identity of the bearer described on the card, whether
the words “identity”, “identification”, “identification card”, or other similar
words appear on the card.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of forging
identification cards or selling or distributing forged identification cards.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, forging identification cards or
selling or distributing forged identification cards is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of
division (A) of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, forging identification cards or selling or distributing
forged identification cards is a misdemeanor of the first degree and, in
addition, the court shall impose upon the offender a fine not less than $250.
      (2)    If the victim of a violation of this section is an elderly person,
R.C. § 2913.31(C)(2)(b) applies and the offense shall be prosecuted under R.C.
§ 2913.31.
(R.C. § 2913.31(B), (C)(2)) (Rev. 2020)
Statutory reference:
Forgery, felony provisions, see R.C. § 2913.31(A) and (C)(1)
Forgery of originating address or other routing information in connection with
the transmission of an electronic mail advertisement, felony provisions, see
R.C. § 2307.64
§ 131.27 CRIMINAL SIMULATION.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud, or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Make or alter any object so that it appears to have value because
of antiquity, rarity, curiosity, source, or authorship, which it does not in
fact possess.
      (2)   Practice deception in making, retouching, editing, or reproducing
any photograph, movie film, video tape, phonograph record, or recording tape.
      (3)   Falsely or fraudulently make, simulate, forge, alter, or
counterfeit any wrapper, label, stamp, cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor
Control Commission under R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, falsely or fraudulently
cause to be made, simulated, forged, altered, or counterfeited any wrapper,
label, stamp, cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor Control Commission under
R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, or use more than once any wrapper, label, stamp,
cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor Control Commission under R.C. Chapters
4301 and 4303.
      (4)   Offer, or possess with the purpose to offer, any object that the
person knows to have been simulated as provided in divisions (A)(1), (A)(2) or
(A)(3) of this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal simulation. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, criminal simulation is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the loss to the victim is $1,000 or more, criminal
simulation is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.32) (Rev. 2012)
§ 131.28 PERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is
facilitating a fraud, or with purpose to induce another to purchase property or
services, shall personate a law enforcement officer, or an inspector,
investigator, or agent of any governmental agency.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of personating an officer, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2913.44)
Cross-reference:
Impersonating an officer (non-fraud offense), see §
132.12
§ 131.29 TRADEMARK COUNTERFEITING.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Attach, affix, or otherwise use a counterfeit mark in connection
with the manufacture of goods or services, whether or not the goods or services
are intended for sale or resale.
      (2)   Possess, sell, or offer for sale tools, machines, instruments,
materials, articles, or other items of personal property with the knowledge
that they are designed for the production or reproduction of counterfeit marks.
      (3)   Purchase or otherwise acquire goods, and keep or otherwise have the
goods in the person’s possession, with the knowledge that a counterfeit mark is
attached to, affixed to, or otherwise used in connection with the goods and
with the intent to sell or otherwise dispose of the goods.
      (4)   Sell, offer for sale, or otherwise dispose of goods with the
knowledge that a counterfeit mark is attached to, affixed to, or otherwise used
in connection with the goods.
      (5)   Sell, offer for sale, or otherwise provide services with the
knowledge that a counterfeit mark is used in connection with that sale, offer
for sale, or other provision of the services.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of trademark counterfeiting.
      (1)   A violation of division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)    Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of
division (A)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
circumstances of the violation indicate that the tools, machines, instruments,
materials, articles, or other items of personal property involved in the
violation were intended for use in the commission of a felony, a violation of
division (A)(2) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of
division (A)(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the cumulative sales price of the goods or services to which or in
connection with which the counterfeit mark is attached, affixed or otherwise
used in the offense is $1,000 or more, a violation of division (A)(3), (A)(4)
or (A)(5) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   A defendant may assert as an affirmative defense to a charge of a
violation of this section defenses, affirmative defenses, and limitations on
remedies that would be available in a civil, criminal or administrative action
or proceeding under the Lanham Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 1051 through 1127, as
amended, the Trademark Counterfeiting Act of 1984, being 18 U.S.C. § 2320, as
amended, R.C. Chapter 1329 or another section of the Ohio Revised Code, or
common law.
   (D)   (1)   Law enforcement officers may seize pursuant to Criminal Rule 41,
R.C. Chapter 2933, or R.C. Chapter 2981 either of the following:
         (a)   Goods to which or in connection with which a person attached,
affixed, otherwise used, or intended to attach, affix or otherwise use a
counterfeit mark in violation of this section.
         (b)   Tools, machines, instruments, materials, articles, vehicles or
other items of personal property that are possessed, sold, offered for sale, or
used in a violation of this section or in an attempt to commit or complicity in
the commission of a violation of this section.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of R.C. Chapter 2981, if a
person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this section, an
attempt to violate this section, or complicity in a violation of this section,
the court involved shall declare that the goods described in division (D)(1)(a)
of this section and the personal property described in division (D)(1)(b) of
this section are contraband and are forfeited. Prior to the court’s entry of
judgment under Criminal Rule 32, the owner of a registered trademark or service
mark that is the subject to the counterfeit mark may recommend a manner in
which the forfeited goods and forfeited personal property should be disposed
of. If that owner makes a timely recommendation of a manner of disposition, the
court is not bound by the recommendation. If that owner makes a timely
recommendation of a manner of disposition, the court may include in its entry
of judgment an order that requires appropriate persons to dispose of the
forfeited goods and forfeited personal property in the recommended manner. If
the owner fails to make a timely recommendation of a manner of disposition or
if that owner makes a timely recommendation of a manner of disposition but the
court determines to not follow the recommendation, the court shall include in
its entry of judgement an order that requires the law enforcement agency that
employs the law enforcement officer who seized the forfeited goods or the
forfeited personal property to destroy them or cause their destruction.
   (E)   This section does not affect the rights of an owner of a trademark or
service mark, or the enforcement in a civil action or in administrative
proceedings of the rights of an owner or a trademark or service mark under the
Lanham Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 1051 through 1127, as amended, the Trademark
Counterfeiting Act of 1984, being 18 U.S.C. § 2320, as amended, R.C. Chapter
1329, or another section of the Ohio Revised Code, or common law.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      COUNTERFEIT MARK.
         (a)   Except as provided in division (b) of this definition, the term
means a spurious trademark or a spurious service mark that satisfies both of
the following:
            1.   It is identical with or substantially indistinguishable from a
mark that is registered on the principal register in the United States Patent
and Trademark Office for the same goods or services as the goods or services to
which or in connection with which the spurious trademark or spurious service
mark is attached, affixed, or otherwise used, or from a mark that is registered
with the Secretary of State pursuant to R.C. §§ 1329.54 through 1329.67 for the
same goods or services as the goods or services to which or in connection with
which the spurious trademark or spurious service mark is attached, affixed, or
otherwise used, and the owner of the registration uses that registered
trademark, whether or not the offender knows that the mark is registered in a
manner described in this division (a)1.
            2.   Its use is likely to cause confusion or mistake or to deceive
other persons.
         (b)   The term does not include a mark or other designation that is
attached to, affixed to, or otherwise used in connection with goods or services
if the holder of the right to use the mark or other designation authorizes the
manufacturer, producer, or vendor of those goods or services to attach, affix,
or otherwise use the mark or other designation in connection with those goods
or services at the time of their manufacture, production or sale.
      CUMULATIVE SALES PRICE. Means the product of the lowest single unit sales
price charged or sought to be charged by an offender for goods to which or in
connection with which a counterfeit mark is attached, affixed, or otherwise
used or of the lowest single service transaction price charged or sought to be
charged by an offender for services in connection with which a counterfeit mark
is used, multiplied by the total number of those goods or services, whether or
not units of goods are sold or are in an offender’s possession, custody or
control.
      REGISTERED TRADEMARK OR SERVICE MARK. Means a trademark or service mark
that is registered in a manner described in division (a) of the definition of
“counterfeit mark”.
      SERVICE MARK. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1329.54.
      TRADEMARK. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1329.54.
(R.C. § 2913.34) (Rev. 2012)
§ 131.30 DIMINISHING OR INTERFERING WITH FORFEITABLE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall destroy, damage, remove, or transfer property that is
subject to forfeiture or otherwise take any action in regard to property that
is subject to forfeiture with purpose to do any of the following:
      (1)   Prevent or impair the state’s or political subdivision’s lawful
authority to take the property into its custody or control under R.C. Chapter
2981 or to continue holding the property under its lawful custody or control;
      (2)   Impair or defeat the court’s continuing jurisdiction over the
person and property;
      (3)   Devalue property that the person knows, or has reasonable cause to
believe, is subject to forfeiture proceedings under R.C. Chapter 2981.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference with or
diminishing forfeitable property. Except as otherwise provided in this division
(B), interference with or diminishing forfeitable property is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the value of the property is $1,000 or more, interference
with or diminishing forfeitable property is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2981.07) (Rev. 2012)
§ 131.31 RECORDING CREDIT CARD, TELEPHONE OR SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBERS.
   (A)   No person shall record or cause to be recorded either of the
following:
      (1)   A credit card account number of the other party to a transaction,
when a check, bill of exchange or other draft is presented for payment; or
      (2)   The telephone number or Social Security account number of the other
party to a transaction, when payment is made by credit card charge agreement,
check, bill of exchange or other draft.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a transaction, if all
of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The credit card account number, Social Security account number or
telephone number is recorded for a legitimate business purpose, including
collection purposes.
      (2)   The other party to the transaction consents to the recording of the
credit card account number, Social Security account number or telephone number.
      (3)   The credit card account number, Social Security account number or
telephone number that is recorded during the course of the transaction is not
disclosed to any third party for any purposes other than collection purposes
and is not used to market goods or services unrelated to the goods or services
purchased in the transaction.
   (C)   Nothing in this section prohibits the recording of the number of a
credit card account when given in lieu of a deposit to secure payment in the
event of default, loss, damage or other occurrence, or requires a person to
accept a check presented for payment, if the other party to the transaction
refuses to consent to the recording of the number of the party’s Social
Security account or license to operate a motor vehicle.
(R.C. § 1349.17)
   (D)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 1349.99(A)) (Rev. 2002)
§ 131.32 PROSECUTIONS FOR THEFT OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   In a prosecution for a theft offense, as defined in R.C. § 2913.01,
that involves alleged tampering with a gas, electric, steam or water meter,
conduit or attachment of a utility that has been disconnected by the utility,
proof that a meter, conduit or attachment of a utility has been tampered with
is prima facie evidence that the person who is obligated to pay for the service
rendered through the meter, conduit or attachment, and who is in possession or
control of the meter, conduit or attachment at the time the tampering occurred
has caused the tampering with intent to commit a theft offense.
   (B)   In a prosecution for a theft offense, as defined in R.C. § 2913.01,
that involves the alleged reconnection of a gas, electric, steam or water
meter, conduit or attachment of a utility that has been disconnected by the
utility, proof that a meter, conduit or attachment disconnected by a utility
has been reconnected without the consent of the utility is prima facie evidence
that the person in possession or control of the meter, conduit or attachment at
the time of the reconnection has reconnected the meter, conduit or attachment
with intent to commit a theft offense.
   (C)   As used in this section:
      TAMPER. Means to interfere with, damage or bypass a utility meter,
conduit or attachment with the intent to impede the correct registration of a
meter or the proper functions of a conduit or attachment so as to reduce the
amount of utility service that is registered on the meter.
      UTILITY. Means any electric light company, gas company, natural gas
company, pipe-line company, water- works company or heating or cooling company,
as defined in R.C. § 4905.03(C), (D), (E), (F), (G), or (H), its lessees,
trustees or receivers, or any similar utility owned or operated by a political
subdivision.
(R.C. § 4933.18) (Rev. 2013)
   (D)   Each electric light company, gas company, natural gas company,
pipeline company, waterworks company or heating or cooling company, as defined
by R.C. § 4905.03(C), (D), (E), (F), (G), or (H), or its lessees, trustees or
receivers, and each similar utility owned or operated by a political
subdivision, shall notify its customers, on an annual basis, that tampering
with or bypassing a meter constitutes a theft offense that could result in the
imposition of criminal sanctions.
(R.C. § 4933.19) (Rev. 2013)
§ 131.33 MOTION PICTURE PIRACY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AUDIOVISUAL RECORDING FUNCTION. Means the capability of a device to
record or transmit a motion picture or any part of a motion picture by means of
any technology existing on, or developed after, March 9, 2004.
      FACILITY. Means a movie theater.
   (B)   No person, without the written consent of the owner or lessee of the
facility and of the licensor of the motion picture, shall knowingly operate an
audiovisual recording function of a device in a facility in which the motion
picture is being shown.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of motion
picture piracy, a misdemeanor of the first degree on the first offense and a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
   (D)   This section does not prohibit or restrict a lawfully authorized
investigative, law enforcement, protective, or intelligence gathering employee
or agent of the government of this state or a political subdivision of this
state, or of the federal government, when acting in an official capacity, from
operating an audiovisual recording function of a device in any facility in
which a motion picture is being shown.
   (E)   Division (B) of this section does not limit or affect the application
of any other prohibition in this code or the Ohio Revised Code. Any act that is
a violation of both division (B) of this section and another provision of this
code or the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, under the
other provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code, or under both this
section and the other provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 2913.07) (Rev. 2005)
§ 131.34 RAILROAD VANDALISM; CRIMINAL TRESPASS; INTERFERENCE WITH OPERATION OF
TRAIN; GRADE CROSSING DEVICE VANDALISM.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any object
at, onto, or in the path of, any railroad rail, railroad track, locomotive,
engine, railroad car, or other vehicle of a railroad company while such vehicle
is on a railroad track.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall climb upon or into any
locomotive, engine, railroad car, or other vehicle of a railroad company when
it is on a railroad track.
   (C)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall disrupt, delay, or
prevent the operation of any train or other vehicle of a railroad company while
such vehicle is on a railroad track.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of railroad
vandalism. Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of criminal
trespass on a locomotive, engine, railroad car, or other railroad vehicle.
Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of interference with
the operation of a train. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
railroad vandalism; criminal trespass on a locomotive, engine, railroad car, or
other railroad vehicle; and interference with the operation of a train each is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation of division (A), (B), or
(C) of this section causes serious physical harm to property or creates a
substantial risk of physical harm to any person, causes physical harm to any
person, or causes serious physical harm to any person, the violation is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.10) (Rev. 2022)
   (E)   No person shall knowingly deface, damage, obstruct, remove, or
otherwise impair the operation of any railroad grade crossing warning signal or
other protective device, including any gate, bell, light, crossbuck, stop sign,
yield sign, advance warning sign, or advance pavement marking.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of railroad
grade crossing device vandalism. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
railroad grade crossing device vandalism is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the violation of division (E) of this section causes serious physical harm
to property or creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person,
causes physical harm to any person, or causes serious physical harm to any
person, railroad grade crossing device vandalism is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.101) (Rev. 2020)
§ 131.35 DESECRATION.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall purposely deface, damage,
pollute, or otherwise physically mistreat any of the following:
      (1)   Any public monument;
      (2)   Any historical or commemorative marker, or any structure, Indian
mound or earthwork, cemetery, thing, or site of great historical or
archaeological interest;
      (3)   A place of worship, its furnishings, or religious artifacts or
sacred texts within the place of worship or within the grounds upon which the
place of worship is located;
      (4)   A work of art or museum piece;
      (5)   Any other object of reverence or sacred devotion.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of desecration. A violation of
division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the second degree. A violation of division (A)(3) of this section is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   As used in this section, “cemetery” means any place of burial and
includes burial sites that contain American Indian burial objects placed with
or containing American Indian human remains.
(R.C. § 2927.11) (Rev. 2020)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
   
132.01   Riot
   
132.02   Failure to disperse
   
132.03   Justifiable use of force to suppress riot
   
132.04   Disorderly conduct
   
132.05   Disturbing a lawful meeting
   
132.06   Misconduct at an emergency
   
132.07   Telecommunications harassment
   
132.08   Inducing panic
   
132.09   Making false alarms
   
132.10   Inciting to violence
   
132.11   Unlawful display of law enforcement emblem
   
132.12   Impersonating a peace officer
   
132.13   Safety of crowds attending live entertainment performances
   
132.14   Misconduct involving a public transportation system
Cross-reference:
Personating an officer (fraud offense), see §
131.28
Statutory reference:
Misuse of “Block Parent” or “McGruff House” symbol, see R.C. § 2917.46
§ 132.01 RIOT.
   (A)   No person shall participate with four or more others in a course of
disorderly conduct in violation of R.C. § 2917.11 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance:
      (1)   With purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of a
misdemeanor, other than disorderly conduct;
      (2)   With purpose to intimidate a public official or employee into
taking or refraining from official action, or with purpose to hinder, impede,
or obstruct a function of government;
      (3)   With purpose to hinder, impede, or obstruct the orderly process of
administration or instruction at an educational institution, or to interfere
with or disrupt lawful activities carried on at the institution.
   (B)   No person shall participate with four or more others with purpose to
do an act with unlawful force or violence, even though the act might otherwise
be lawful.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of riot, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 2917.03) (Rev. 1999)
   (D)   For the purposes of prosecuting violations of this section, the
prosecution is not required to allege or prove that the offender expressly
agreed with four or more others to commit any act that constitutes a violation
this section prior to or while committing those acts.
(R.C. § 2917.031) (Rev. 2005)
Statutory reference:
Aggravated riot, felony provisions, see R.C. § 2917.02
§ 132.02 FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
   (A)   Where five or more persons are participating in a course of disorderly
conduct in violation of R.C. § 2917.11 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, and there are other persons in the vicinity whose presence creates
the likelihood of physical harm to persons or property or of serious public
inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm, a law enforcement officer or other public
official may order the participants and the other persons to disperse. No
person shall knowingly fail to obey the order.
   (B)   Nothing in this section requires persons to disperse who are peaceably
assembled for a lawful purpose.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to disperse.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3) of this section,
failure to disperse is a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Failure to disperse is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the
failure to obey the order described in division (A) of this section creates the
likelihood of physical harm to persons or is committed at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
(R.C. § 2917.04) (Rev. 2005)
§ 132.03 JUSTIFIABLE USE OF FORCE TO SUPPRESS RIOT.
   A law enforcement officer or firefighter engaged in suppressing a riot or in
protecting persons or property during a riot:
   (A)   Is justified in using force, other than deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters;
   (B)   Is justified in using force, including deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters whose conduct is creating a substantial risk of
serious physical harm to persons.
(R.C. § 2917.05)
§ 132.04 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly cause inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm to
another, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Engaging in fighting, in threatening harm to persons or property,
or in violent or turbulent behavior;
      (2)   Making unreasonable noise or an offensively coarse utterance,
gesture, or display, or communicating unwarranted and grossly abusive language
to any person;
      (3)   Insulting, taunting, or challenging another, under circumstances in
which that conduct is likely to provoke a violent response;
      (4)   Hindering or preventing the movement of persons on a public street,
road, highway, or right-of-way, or to, from, within, or upon public or private
property, so as to interfere with the rights of others, and by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender;
      (5)   Creating a condition that is physically offensive to persons or
that presents a risk of physical harm to persons or property, by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender.
   (B)   No person while voluntarily intoxicated shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   In a public place or in the presence of two or more persons, engage
in conduct likely to be offensive or to cause inconvenience, annoyance, or
alarm to persons of ordinary sensibilities, which conduct the offender, if he
or she were not intoxicated, should know is likely to have such effect on
others;
      (2)   Engage in conduct or create a condition that presents a risk of
physical harm to himself, herself or another, or to the property of another.
   (C)   Violation of any statute or ordinance of which an element is operating
a motor vehicle, locomotive, watercraft, aircraft, or other vehicle while under
the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse is not a violation of division
(B) of this section.
   (D)   If a person appears to an ordinary observer to be intoxicated, it is
probable cause to believe that the person is voluntarily intoxicated for
purposes of division (B) of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disorderly conduct.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (E)(2) and (E)(3) of this
section, disorderly conduct is a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Disorderly conduct is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if any of
the following applies:
         (a)   The offender persists in disorderly conduct after reasonable
warning or request to desist.
         (b)   The offense is committed in the vicinity of a school or in a
school safety zone.
         (c)   The offense is committed in the presence of any law enforcement
officer, firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services
person, or other authorized person who is engaged in the person’s duties at the
scene of a fire, accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
         (d)   The offense is committed in the presence of any emergency
facility person who is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to three or more violations of division (B) of this section, R.C. § 2917.11(B),
or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation
of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SCHOOL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2925.01.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency medical
services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
(R.C. § 2917.11) (Rev. 2020)
§ 132.05 DISTURBING A LAWFUL MEETING.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to prevent or disrupt a lawful meeting,
procession, or gathering, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Do any act which obstructs or interferes with the due conduct of
the meeting, procession, or gathering.
      (2)   Make any utterance, gesture, or display which outrages the
sensibilities of the group.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disturbing a lawful
meeting, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2917.12)
§ 132.06 MISCONDUCT AT AN EMERGENCY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Hamper the lawful operations of any law enforcement officer,
firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services person, or
other authorized person engaged in the person’s duties at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind;
      (2)   Hamper the lawful activities of any emergency facility person who
is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility;
      (3)   Fail to obey the lawful order of any law enforcement officer
engaged in the law enforcement officer’s duties at the scene of or in
connection with a fire, accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit access or deny
information to any news media representative in the lawful exercise of the news
media representative’s duties.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misconduct at an emergency.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If violation of this section creates a risk
of physical harm to persons or property, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      EMERGENCY FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency medical
services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
(R.C. § 2917.13) (Rev. 2005)
§ 132.07 TELECOMMUNICATIONS HARASSMENT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a
telecommunication, or knowingly permit a telecommunication to be made from a
telecommunications device under the person’s control, to another, if the caller
does any of the following:
      (1)   Makes the telecommunication with purpose to harass, intimidate, or
abuse any person at the premises to which the telecommunication is made,
whether or not actual communication takes place between the caller and a
recipient;
      (2)   Describes, suggests, requests, or proposes that the caller, the
recipient of the telecommunication, or any other person engage in sexual
activity, and the recipient or another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made has requested, in a previous telecommunication or in
the immediate telecommunication, that the caller not make a telecommunication
to the recipient or to the premises to which the telecommunication is made;
      (3)   During the telecommunication, violates R.C. § 2903.21 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (4)   Knowingly states to the recipient of the telecommunication that the
caller intends to cause damage to or destroy public or private property, and
the recipient, any member of the recipient’s family, or any other person who
resides at the premises to which the telecommunication is made owns, leases,
resides, or works in, will at the time of the destruction or damaging be near
or in, has the responsibility of protecting, or insures the property that will
be destroyed or damaged;
      (5)   Knowingly makes the telecommunication to the recipient of the
telecommunication, to another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made, or to those premises, and the recipient or another
person at those premises previously has told the caller not to make a
telecommunication to those premises or to any persons at those premises;
      (6)   Knowingly makes any comment, request, suggestion, or proposal to
the recipient of the telecommunication that is threatening, intimidating,
menacing, coercive, or obscene with the intent to abuse, threaten, or harass
the recipient;
      (7)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly interrupts the
telecommunication service of any person;
      (8)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly transmits to any
person, regardless of whether the telecommunication is heard in its entirety,
any file, document, or other communication that prevents that person from using
the person’s telephone service or electronic communication device;
      (9)   Knowingly makes any false statement concerning the death, injury,
illness, disfigurement, reputation, indecent conduct, or criminal conduct of
the recipient of the telecommunication or family or household member of the
recipient with purpose to abuse, threaten, intimidate, or harass the recipient;
      (10)   Knowingly incites another person through a telecommunication or
other means to harass or participate in the harassment of a person;
      (11)   Knowingly alarms the recipient by making a telecommunication
without a lawful purpose at an hour or hours known to be inconvenient to the
recipient and in an offensive or repetitive manner.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall make or cause to be made a telecommunication or
permit a telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under
the person’s control, with purpose to abuse, threaten, or harass another
person.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly post a text or audio statement or an
image on an internet web site or web page for the purpose of abusing,
threatening, or harassing another person.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of telecommunications
harassment.
      (2)   A violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(5), (A)(6), (A)
(7), (A)(8), (A)(9), (A)(10), or (A)(11) or (B) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree on a first offense and a felony on each
subsequent offense, which shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(3), a violation
of division (A)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree on a
first offense and a felony on each subsequent offense, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If a violation of division (A)(4) of this section
results in economic harm of $1,000 or more, telecommunications harassment is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   No cause of action may be asserted in any court of this municipality
against any provider of a telecommunications service, interactive computer
service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, or against any
officer, employee, or agent of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, for any
injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly arises out of the
provider’s, officer’s, employee’s, or agent’s provision of information,
facilities, or assistance in accordance with the terms of a court order that is
issued in relation to the investigation or prosecution of an alleged violation
of this section. A provider of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, or an
officer, employee, or agent of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, is
immune from any civil or criminal liability for injury, death, or loss to
person or property that allegedly arises out of the provider’s, officer’s,
employee’s, or agent’s provision of information, facilities, or assistance in
accordance with the terms of a court order that is issued in relation to the
investigation or prosecution of an alleged violation of this section.
   (E)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person solely because the
person provided access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control, including
having provided capabilities that are incidental to providing access or
connection to or from the electronic method of remotely transferring the
information, and that do not include the creation of the content of the
material that is the subject of the access or connection. In addition, any
person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control shall not be
liable for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the receipt or
transmission through its service of any information that the person believes
is, or will be sent, in violation of this section.
      (2)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not create an affirmative duty
for any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method
of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control to block
the receipt or transmission through its service of any information that it
believes is, or will be sent, in violation of this section except as otherwise
provided by law.
      (3)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of this section or who knowingly
advertises the availability of material of that nature.
      (4)   A provider or user of an interactive computer service, as defined
in 47 U.S.C. § 230, shall neither be treated as the publisher or speaker of any
information provided by another information content provider, as defined in 47
U.S.C. § 230, nor held civilly or criminally liable for the creation or
development of information provided by another information content provider, as
defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230. Nothing in this division shall be construed to
protect a person from liability to the extent that the person developed or
created any content in violation of this section.
   (F)   Divisions (A)(5) to (A)(11) and (B)(2) of this section do not apply to
a person who, while employed or contracted by a newspaper, magazine, press
association, news agency, news wire service, cable channel or cable operator,
or radio or television station, is gathering, processing, transmitting,
compiling, editing, or disseminating information for the general public within
the scope of the person’s employment in that capacity or the person’s
contractual authority in that capacity.
   (G)   As used in divisions (A) through (D) of this section:
      CABLE OPERATOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
      CALLER. Means the person described in division (A) of this section who
makes or causes to be made a telecommunication or who permits a
telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under that
person’s control.
      ECONOMIC HARM. Means all direct, incidental and consequential pecuniary
harm suffered by a victim as a result of the criminal conduct. The term
includes but is not limited to all of the following:
         (a)   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         (b)   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         (c)   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is
shut down as a result of the criminal conduct;
         (d)   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division
(A)(9) of this section is committed:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse of
the recipient;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the recipient, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the recipient;
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the recipient, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
recipient.
         (b)   The natural parent of any child of whom the recipient of the
telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division (A)(9) of this
section is committed is the other natural parent or is the putative other
natural parent.
      PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has lived with
the recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in
division (A)(9) of this section is committed in a common law marital
relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting with the recipient, or who otherwise
has cohabited with the recipient within five years prior to the date of the
alleged commission of the act in question.
      SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
      TELECOMMUNICATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   (H)   Nothing in this section prohibits a person from making a
telecommunication to a debtor that is in compliance with the “Fair Debt
Collection Practices Act”, 15 U.S.C. § 1692, as amended, or the “Telephone
Consumer Protection Act”, 47 U.S.C. § 227, as amended.
(R.C. § 2917.21) (Rev. 2017)
§ 132.08 INDUCING PANIC.
   (A)   No person shall cause the evacuation of any public place, or otherwise
cause serious public inconvenience or alarm, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Initiating or circulating a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false.
      (2)   Threatening to commit any offense of violence.
      (3)   Committing any offense, with reckless disregard of the likelihood
that its commission will cause serious public inconvenience or alarm.
   (B)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to any person
conducting an authorized fire or emergency drill.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of inducing panic.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3), inducing panic is
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If a violation of this section results in physical harm to any
person, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law. If a violation of this section results in economic harm of $1,000 or more,
inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the
public place involved in a violation of division (A)(1) is a school or an
institution of higher education, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. If a violation of this section pertains to a
purported, threatened or actual use of a weapon of mass destruction, inducing
panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or this code may be prosecuted under this section, the
other section, or both sections.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      BIOLOGICAL AGENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2917.33.
      ECONOMIC HARM. Means any of the following:
         (a)   All direct, incidental and consequential pecuniary harm suffered
by a victim as a result of the criminal conduct. “Economic harm” as described
in this division includes but is not limited to all of the following:
            1.   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            2.   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            3.   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is
shut down as a result of the criminal conduct;
            4.   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
         (b)   All costs incurred by the state or any political subdivision as
a result of, or in making any response to, the criminal conduct that
constituted the violation of this section or R.C. § 2917.32, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, including but not limited to all
costs so incurred by any law enforcement officers, firefighters, rescue
personnel, or emergency medical services personnel of the state or the
political subdivision.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSONNEL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2133.21.
      INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A state university or college as defined in R.C. § 3345.12(A)
(1), community college, state community college, university branch, or
technical college;
         (b)   A private, nonprofit college, university or other post-secondary
institution located in this state that possesses a certificate of authorization
issued by the Ohio Board of Regents pursuant to R.C. Chapter 1713;
         (c)   A post-secondary institution with a certificate of registration
issued by the State Board of Career Colleges and Schools pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 3332.
      SCHOOL. Means any school operated by a board of education or any school
for which the State Board of Education prescribes minimum standards under R.C.
§ 3301.07, whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or
training provided by the school is being conducted at the time a violation of
this section is committed.
      WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any weapon that is designed or intended to cause death or
serious physical harm through the release, dissemination, or impact of toxic or
poisonous chemicals, or other precursors;
         (b)   Any weapon involving a disease organism or biological agent;
         (c)   Any weapon that is designed to release radiation or
radioactivity at a level dangerous to human life;
         (d)   Any of the following, except to the extent that the item or
device in question is expressly excepted from the definition of “destructive
device” pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)(4) and regulations issued under that
section:
            1.   Any explosive, incendiary, or poison gas bomb, grenade, rocket
having a propellant charge of more than four ounces, missile having an
explosive or incendiary charge of more than one-quarter ounce, mine, or similar
device;
            2.   Any combination of parts either designed or intended for use
in converting any item or device into any item or device described in division
(d)1. of this definition and from which an item or device described in that
division may be readily assembled.
(R.C. § 2917.31) (Rev. 2012)
§ 132.09 MAKING FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to cause public inconvenience or alarm.
      (2)   Knowingly cause a false alarm of fire or other emergency to be
transmitted to or within any organization, public or private, for dealing with
emergencies involving a risk of physical harm to persons or property.
      (3)   Report to any law enforcement agency an alleged offense or other
incident within its concern, knowing that the offense did not occur;
      (4)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to impede the operation of a critical
infrastructure facility.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any person conducting an authorized
fire or emergency drill.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making false alarms. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, making false alarms is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If a violation of this section results in economic harm of
$1,000 or more, making false alarms is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If a violation of this section pertains to a purported,
threatened, or actual use of a weapon of mass destruction, making false alarms
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or this code may be prosecuted under this section, the
other section, or both sections.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2911.21.
      ECONOMIC HARM and WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION. Have the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2917.31.
(R.C. § 2917.32) (Rev. 2022)
§ 132.10 INCITING TO VIOLENCE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly engage in conduct designed to urge or incite
another to commit any offense of violence when either of the following apply:
      (1)   The conduct takes place under circumstances that create a clear and
present danger that any offense of violence will be committed.
      (2)   The conduct proximately results in the commission of any offense of
violence.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of inciting to violence. If
the offense of violence that the other person is being urged or incited to
commit is a misdemeanor, inciting to violence is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the offense of violence that the other person is being urged or
incited to commit is a felony, inciting to violence is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2917.01)
§ 132.11 UNLAWFUL DISPLAY OF LAW ENFORCEMENT EMBLEM.
   (A)   No person who is not entitled to do so shall knowingly display on a
motor vehicle the emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law
enforcement officers.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of the unlawful display of the
emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law enforcement
officers, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2913.441)
§ 132.12 IMPERSONATING A PEACE OFFICER.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Means an employee of the United States
who serves in a position the duties of which are primarily the investigation,
apprehension, or detention of individuals suspected or convicted of offenses
under the criminal laws of the United States.
      IMPERSONATE. Means to act the part of, assume the identity of, wear the
uniform or any part of the uniform of, or display the identification of a
particular person or of a member of a class of persons with purpose to make
another person believe that the actor is that particular person or is a member
of that class of persons.
      INVESTIGATOR OF THE BUREAU OF CRIMINAL IDENTIFICATION AND INVESTIGATION.
Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.11.
      PEACE OFFICER. A Sheriff, deputy sheriff, Marshal, deputy marshal, member
of the organized police department of a municipal corporation, or township
constable, who is employed by a political subdivision of this state; a member
of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under R.C. §
3735.31(D); a member of a police force employed by a regional transit authority
under R.C. § 306.35(Y); a state university law enforcement officer appointed
under R.C. § 3345.04; a veterans’ home police officer appointed under R.C. §
5907.02; a special police officer employed by a port authority under R.C. §
4582.04 or 4582.28; an officer, agent, or employee of the state or any of its
agencies, instrumentalities, or political subdivisions, upon whom, by statute,
a duty to conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain laws is imposed and
the authority to arrest violators is conferred, within limits of that statutory
duty and authority; or a state highway patrol trooper whose primary duties are
to preserve the peace, to protect life and property, and to enforce the laws,
ordinances, or rules of the state or any of its political subdivisions.
      PRIVATE POLICE OFFICER. Means any security guard, special police officer,
private detective, or other person who is privately employed in a police
capacity.
   (B)   No person shall impersonate a peace officer, private police officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation, or
federal law enforcement officer.
   (C)   No person, by impersonating a peace officer, private police officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation, or
federal law enforcement officer, shall arrest or detain any person, search any
person, or search the property of any person.
   (D)   No person, with purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of an
offense, shall impersonate a peace officer, private police officer, federal law
enforcement officer, an officer, agent or employee of the municipality or the
state, or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation.
   (E)   No person shall commit a felony while impersonating a peace officer,
private police officer, federal law enforcement officer, an officer, agent or
employee of the municipality or of the state, or investigator of the Bureau of
Criminal Identification and Investigation.
   (F)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B) of this
section that the impersonation of the peace officer, private police officer,
federal law enforcement officer, an officer, agent or employee of the
municipality or of the state, or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation was for a lawful purpose.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the purpose of a
violation of division (D) of this section is to commit or facilitate the
commission of a felony, a violation of division (D) is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. Whoever violates division (E) of this
section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.51) (Rev. 2010)
Cross-reference:
Personating an officer (fraud offense), see §
131.28
§ 132.13 SAFETY OF CROWDS ATTENDING LIVE ENTERTAINMENT PERFORMANCES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CONCERT. Means a musical performance of which the primary component is a
presentation by persons singing or playing musical instruments, that is
intended by its sponsors mainly, but not necessarily exclusively, for the
listening enjoyment of the audience, and that is held in a facility. The term
does not include any performance in which music is a part of the presentation
and the primary component of which is acting, dancing, a motion picture, a
demonstration of skills or talent other than singing or playing an instrument,
an athletic event, an exhibition or a speech.
      FACILITY. Means any structure that has a roof or partial roof and that
has walls that wholly surround the area on all sides, including but not limited
to a stadium, hall, arena, armory, auditorium, ballroom, exhibition hall,
convention center or music hall.
      LIVE ENTERTAINMENT PERFORMANCE. Means any live speech; any live musical
performance, including a concert; any live dramatic performance; any live
variety show; and any other live performance with respect to which the primary
intent of the audience can be construed to be viewing the performers. The term
does not include any form of entertainment with respect to which the person
purchasing a ticket routinely participates in amusements as well as views
performers.
      PERSON. Includes, in addition to an individual or entity specified in
R.C. § 1.59(C), any governmental entity.
      RESTRICTED ENTERTAINMENT AREA. Means any wholly or partially enclosed
area, whether indoors or outdoors, that has limited access through established
entrances or established turnstiles or similar devices.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall sell, offer to sell, or offer in return for a
donation, any ticket that is not numbered and that does not correspond to a
specific seat for admission to either of the following:
         (a)   A live entertainment performance that is not exempted under
division (D) of this section, that is held in a restricted entertainment area,
and for which more than 8,000 tickets are offered to the public;
         (b)   A concert that is not exempted under division (D) of this
section and for which more than 3,000 tickets are offered to the public.
      (2)   No person shall advertise any live entertainment performance as
described in division (B)(1)(a) of this section or any concert as described in
division (B)(1)(b) of this section, unless the advertisement contains the words
“Reserved Seats Only”.
   (C)   Unless exempted by division (D)(1) of this section, no person who owns
or operates any restricted entertainment area shall fail to open, maintain and
properly staff at least the number of entrances designated under division (E)
of this section for a minimum of 90 minutes prior to the scheduled start of any
live entertainment performance that is held in the restricted entertainment
area and for which more than 3,000 tickets are sold, offered for sale or
offered in return for a donation.
   (D)   (1)   A live entertainment performance, other than a concert, is
exempted from the provisions of divisions (B) and (C) of this section if both
of the following apply:
         (a)   The restricted entertainment area in which the performance is
held has at least eight entrances or, if both entrances and separate admission
turnstiles or similar devices are used, has at least eight turnstiles or
similar devices.
         (b)   The eight entrances or, if applicable, the eight turnstiles or
similar devices, are opened, maintained and properly staffed at least one hour
prior to the scheduled start of the performance.
      (2)   (a)   The officer responsible for public safety in the municipality
may, upon application of the sponsor of a concert covered by division (B) of
this section, exempt the concert from the provisions of that division if such
officer finds that the health, safety and welfare of the participants and
spectators would not be substantially affected by failure to comply with the
provisions of that division. In determining whether to grant an exemption, the
officer shall consider the following factors: the size and design of the
facility in which the concert is scheduled; the size, age and anticipated
conduct of the crowd expected to attend the concert; and the ability of the
sponsor to manage and control the expected crowd. If the sponsor of any concert
desires to obtain an exemption under this division, the sponsor shall apply to
the appropriate official on a form prescribed by that official. The official
shall issue an order that grants or denies the exemption within five days after
receipt of the application. The sponsor may appeal any order that denies an
exemption to the Court of Common Pleas of the county in which the facility is
located.
         (b)   If an official grants an exemption under division (D)(2)(a) of
this section, the official shall designate an on-duty law enforcement officer
to be present at the concert. The designated officer has authority to issue
orders to all security personnel at the concert to protect the health, safety
and welfare of the participants and spectators.
      (3)   Notwithstanding division (D)(2) of this section, in the case of a
concert held in a facility located on the campus of an educational institution
covered by R.C. § 3345.04, a state university law enforcement officer appointed
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3345.04 and 3345.21 shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Exercise the authority to grant exemptions provided by division
(D)(2)(a) of this section in lieu of an official designated in that division;
         (b)   If the officer grants an exemption under division (D)(3)(a) of
this section, designate an on-duty state university law enforcement officer to
be present at the concert. The designated officer has authority to issue orders
to all security personnel at the concert to protect the health, safety and
welfare of the participants and spectators.
   (E)   (1)   Unless a live entertainment performance is exempted by division
(D)(1) of this section, the officer responsible for public safety within the
municipality shall designate, for purposes of division (C) of this section, the
minimum number of entrances required to be opened, maintained and staffed at
each live entertainment performance so as to permit crowd control and reduce
congestion at the entrances. The designation shall be based on such factors as
the size and nature of the crowd expected to attend the live entertainment
performance, the length of time prior to the live entertainment performance
that crowds are expected to congregate at the entrances and the amount of
security provided at the restricted entertainment area.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (E)(1) of this section, a state university
law enforcement officer appointed pursuant to R.C. §§ 3345.04 and 3345.21 shall
designate the number of entrances required to be opened, maintained and staffed
in the case of a live entertainment performance that is held at a restricted
entertainment area located on the campus of an educational institution covered
by R.C. § 3345.04.
   (F)   No person shall enter into any contract for a live entertainment
performance that does not permit or require compliance with this section.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to a live entertainment performance
held in a restricted entertainment area if one admission ticket entitles the
holder to view or participate in three or more different games, rides,
activities or live entertainment performances occurring simultaneously at
different sites within the restricted entertainment area and if the initial
admittance entrance to the restricted entertainment area, for which the ticket
is required, is separate from the entrance to any specific live entertainment
performance and an additional ticket is not required for admission to the
particular live entertainment performance.
      (2)   This section does not apply to a symphony orchestra performance, a
ballet performance, horse races, dances or fairs.
   (H)   This section does not prohibit the Legislative Authority from imposing
additional requirements, not in conflict with the section, for the promotion or
holding of live entertainment performances.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (B), (C) or (F) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If any individual suffers physical harm to
the individual’s person as a result of a violation of this section, the
sentencing court shall consider this factor in favor of imposing a term of
imprisonment upon the offender.
(R.C. § 2917.40) (Rev. 1999)
§ 132.14 MISCONDUCT INVOLVING A PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM.
   (A)   As used in this section, PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM means a county
transit system operated in accordance with R.C. §§ 306.01 through 306.13, a
regional transit authority operated in accordance with R.C. §§ 306.30 through
306.71, or a regional transit commission operated in accordance with R.C. §§
306.80 through 306.90.
   (B)   No person shall evade the payment of the known fares of a public
transportation system.
   (C)   No person shall alter any transfer, pass, ticket or token of a public
transportation system with the purpose of evading the payment of fares or of
defrauding the system.
   (D)   No person shall do any of the following while in any facility or on
any vehicle of a public transportation system:
      (1)   Play sound equipment without the proper use of a private earphone;
      (2)   Smoke, eat or drink in any area where the activity is clearly
marked as being prohibited; or
      (3)   Expectorate upon a person, facility or vehicle.
   (E)   No person shall write, deface, draw or otherwise mark on any facility
or vehicle of a public transportation system.
   (F)   No person shall fail to comply with a lawful order of a public
transportation system police officer, and no person shall resist, obstruct or
abuse a public transportation police officer in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
   (G)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of
misconduct involving a public transportation system.
      (1)   A violation of division (B), (C), or (F) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   A violation of division (D) of this section is a minor misdemeanor
on a first offense. If a person previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of any division of this section or of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any division of this section, a
violation of division (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (E) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 75% of each fine paid to
satisfy a sentence imposed for a violation of any of the provisions of this
section shall be deposited into the treasury of the County and 25% shall be
deposited with the county transit board, regional transit authority or regional
transit commission that operates the public transportation system involved in
the violation, unless the Board of County Commissioners operates the public
transportation system, in which case 100% of each fine shall be deposited into
the treasury of the County.
(R.C. § 2917.41) (Rev. 2004)
CHAPTER 133: SEX OFFENSES
Section
   
133.01   Definitions
   
133.02   Unlawful sexual conduct with a minor
   
133.03   Sexual imposition
   
133.04   Public indecency
   
133.05   Voyeurism
   
133.06   Polygraph examinations for victims: restrictions on use
   
133.07   Procuring; engagement in sexual activity for hire
   
133.08   Soliciting; loitering to engage in
   
133.09   Prostitution
   
133.10   Disseminating matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.11   Displaying matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.12   Deception to obtain matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.13   Rules of evidence
   
133.14   Declaratory judgment
   
133.15   Injunction; abatement of nuisance
   
133.16   Unlawful operation of viewing booths depicting sexual conduct
   
133.17   Juveniles on the premises of adult entertainment establishments
prohibited
   
133.18   Sexually oriented businesses; illegal operation and activity
   
133.19   Unlawful advertising of massage
   
133.20   Nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images
   
133.99   Sentencing for sexually oriented offenses; sexual predators;
registration
Cross-reference:
Sexual conduct with an animal, see §
90.37
Statutory reference:
Assistance to victims of sexual assault, see R.C. §§ 2907.28 et seq.
Child victim, disposition of, see R.C. § 2945.481
Suppression of information at trial, see R.C. § 2907.11
Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   HARMFUL TO JUVENILES. That quality of any material or performance describing
or representing nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement, or sado-masochistic
abuse in any form to which all of the following apply:
      (1)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, appeals to
the prurient interest of juveniles in sex.
      (2)   The material or performance is patently offensive to prevailing
standards in the adult community as a whole with respect to what is suitable
for juveniles.
      (3)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, lacks
serious literary, artistic, political, and scientific value for juveniles.
   JUVENILE. Any unmarried person under 18 years of age.
   MATERIAL. Any book, magazine, newspaper, pamphlet, poster, print, picture,
figure, image, description, motion picture film, video cassette, laser disc,
phonograph record, cassette tape, compact disc, or other tangible thing capable
of arousing interest through sight, sound, or touch and includes an image or
text appearing on a computer monitor, television screen, liquid crystal
display, or similar display device or an image or text recorded on a computer
hard disk, computer floppy disk, compact disk, magnetic tape, or similar data
storage device.
   MENTAL HEALTH CLIENT OR PATIENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.51.
   MENTAL HEALTH PROFESSIONAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.115.
   MINOR. A person under the age of 18.
   NUDITY. The showing, representation, or depiction of human male or female
genitals, pubic area, or buttocks with less than a full, opaque covering, or of
a female breast with less than a full, opaque covering of any portion thereof
below the top of the nipple, or of covered male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state.
   OBSCENE. When considered as a whole, and judged with reference to ordinary
adults or, if it is designed for sexual deviates or other specially susceptible
group, judged with reference to that group, any material or performance is
“obscene” if any of the following apply:
      (1)   Its dominant appeal is to prurient interest.
      (2)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
sexual activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, or nudity in a way that tends
to represent human beings as mere objects of sexual appetite.
      (3)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
bestiality or extreme or bizarre violence, cruelty, or brutality.
      (4)   Its dominant tendency is to appeal to scatological interest by
displaying or depicting human bodily functions of elimination in a way that
inspires disgust or revulsion in persons with ordinary sensibilities, without
serving any genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral, or artistic
purpose.
      (5)   It contains a series of displays or descriptions of sexual
activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, nudity, bestiality, extreme or
bizarre violence, cruelty, or brutality, or human bodily functions of
elimination, the cumulative effect of which is a dominant tendency to appeal to
prurient or scatological interest, when the appeal to such an interest is
primarily for its own sake or for commercial exploitation, rather than
primarily for a genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral, or
artistic purpose.
   PERFORMANCE. Any motion picture, preview, trailer, play, show, skit, dance,
or other exhibition performed before an audience.
   PROSTITUTE. A male or female who promiscuously engages in sexual activity
for hire, regardless of whether the hire is paid to the prostitute or to
another.
   SADO-MASOCHISTIC ABUSE. Flagellation or torture by or upon a person or the
condition of being fettered, bound, or otherwise physically restrained.
   SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Sexual conduct or sexual contact, or both.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT. Vaginal intercourse between a male and female; anal
intercourse, fellatio, and cunnilingus between persons regardless of sex; and,
without privilege to do so, the insertion, however slight, of any part of the
body or any instrument, apparatus, or other object into the vaginal or anal
opening of another. Penetration, however slight, is sufficient to complete
vaginal or anal intercourse.
   SEXUAL CONTACT. Any touching of an erogenous zone of another, including
without limitation the thigh, genitals, buttock, pubic region, or, if the
person is a female, a breast, for the purpose of sexually arousing or
gratifying either person.
   SEXUAL EXCITEMENT. The condition of human male or female genitals when in a
state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   SPOUSE. A person married to an offender at the time of an alleged offense,
except that such person shall not be considered the spouse when any of the
following apply:
      (1)   When the parties have entered into a written separation agreement
pursuant to R.C. § 3103.06.
      (2)   When an action is pending between the parties for annulment,
divorce, dissolution of marriage, or legal separation.
      (3)   In the case of an action for legal separation, after the effective
date of the judgment for legal separation.
(R.C. § 2907.01) (Rev. 2008)
§ 133.02 UNLAWFUL SEXUAL CONDUCT WITH A MINOR.
   (A)   No person who is 18 years of age or older shall engage in sexual
conduct with another who is not the spouse of the offender, when the offender
knows the other person is 13 years of age or older but less than 16 years of
age, or the offender is reckless in that regard.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful sexual conduct
with a minor.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2), unlawful sexual
conduct with a minor is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if
the offender is less than four years older than the other person, unlawful
sexual conduct with a minor is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of R.C. § 2907.02, 2907.03 or 2907.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, or a violation of former R.C. § 2907.12, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, unlawful sexual conduct with a
minor is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.04) (Rev. 2001)
§ 133.03 SEXUAL IMPOSITION.
   (A)   No person shall have sexual contact with another, not the spouse of
the offender; cause another, not the spouse of the offender, to have sexual
contact with the offender; or cause two or more other persons to have sexual
contact when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The offender knows that the sexual contact is offensive to the
other person, or one of the other persons, or is reckless in that regard.
      (2)   The offender knows that the other person’s, or one of the other
person’s ability to appraise the nature of or control the offender’s or
touching person’s conduct is substantially impaired.
      (3)   The offender knows that the other person, or one of the other
persons, submits because of being unaware of the sexual contact.
      (4)   The other person, or one of the other persons, is 13 years of age
or older but less than 16 years of age, whether or not the offender knows the
age of the person, and the offender is at least 18 years of age and four or
more years older than the other person.
      (5)   The offender is a mental health professional, the other person or
one of the other persons is a mental health client or patient of the offender,
and the offender induces the other person who is the client or patient to
submit by falsely representing to the other person who is the client or patient
that the sexual contact is necessary for mental health treatment purposes.
   (B)   No person shall be convicted of a violation of this section solely
upon the victim’s testimony unsupported by other evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of sexual imposition, a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section, R.C. § 2907.02, 2907.03,
2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, former R.C. § 2907.12, or a substantially equivalent
state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, R.C. § 2907.02,
2907.03, 2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, former R.C. § 2907.12, or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any combination of those
sections, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree and,
notwithstanding the range of jail terms prescribed in R.C. § 2929.24, the court
may impose on the offender a definite jail term of not more than one year.
(R.C. § 2907.06) (Rev. 2020)
Statutory reference:
Gross sexual imposition, felony, see R.C. § 2907.05
Notice to licensing board or agency upon indictment, conviction or guilty plea
of mental health professional, see R.C. §§ 2907.17 and 2907.18
§ 133.04 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following, under
circumstances in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and
affront others who are in the person’s physical proximity and who are not
members of the person’s household:
      (1)   Expose the persons’s private parts.
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct or masturbation.
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following, under circumstances
in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and affront another
person who is in the person’s physical proximity, who is a minor, and who is
not the spouse of the offender:
      (1)   Engage in masturbation.
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct.
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
      (4)   Expose the person’s private parts with the purpose of personal
sexual arousal or gratification or to lure the minor into sexual activity.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public indecency and
shall be punished as provided in divisions (C)(2), (C)(3), (C)(4), and (C)(5)
of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(2), a violation
of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the third degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations
of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by the
offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more
violations of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(3), a violation
of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the second degree or, if any person who was likely to view
and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or a substantially equivalent
state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if any person who was
likely to view and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(4), a violation
of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(5), a violation
of division (B)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of
this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (B)(4) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   If either of the following applies, the court may determine at
the time of sentencing whether to classify the offender as a tier I sex
offender/child-victim offender for a violation of division (B)(4) of this
section:
         (a)   The offender is less than ten years older than the other person.
         (b)   The offender is ten or more years older than the other person
and the offender has not previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any
violation of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance.
      (2)   If the offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (B)(4) of this section, is ten or more years older than the other
person, and previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation
of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the court shall issue an order at the time of sentencing that
classifies the offender as a tier I sex offender/child-victim offender subject
to registration under R.C. §§ 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05, and 2950.06.
(R.C. § 2907.09) (Rev. 2020)
   (E)   A mother is entitled to breast-feed her baby in any location of a
place of public accommodation, as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, wherein the mother
otherwise is permitted.
(R.C. § 3781.55) (Rev. 2009)
Statutory reference:
Bail considerations for persons charged, see R.C. § 2907.41
§ 133.05 VOYEURISM.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another, to spy or eavesdrop upon another.
   (B)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another to videotape, film, photograph, or otherwise record the
other person in a state of nudity.
   (C)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another to videotape, film, photograph, otherwise record, or spy or
eavesdrop upon the other person in a state of nudity if the other person is a
minor.
   (D)   No person shall secretly or surreptitiously videotape, film,
photograph, or otherwise record another person under or through the clothing
being worn by that person for the purpose of viewing the body of, or the
undergarments worn by, that other person.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of voyeurism.
      (1)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (4)   A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.08) (Rev. 2010)
§ 133.06 POLYGRAPH EXAMINATIONS FOR VICTIMS: RESTRICTIONS ON USE.
   (A)   (1)   A peace officer, prosecutor, or other public official shall not
ask or require a victim of an alleged sex offense to submit to a polygraph
examination as a condition for proceeding with the investigation of the alleged
sex offense.
      (2)   The refusal of the victim of an alleged sex offense to submit to a
polygraph examination shall not prevent the investigation of the alleged sex
offense, the filing of criminal charges with respect to the alleged sex
offense, or the prosecution of the alleged perpetrator of the alleged sex
offense.
   (B)   As used in this section:
      PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.51.
      POLYGRAPH EXAMINATION. Means any mechanical or electrical instrument or
device of any type used or allegedly used to examine, test, or question an
individual for the purpose of determining the individual’s truthfulness.
      PROSECUTION. Means the prosecution of criminal charges in a criminal
prosecution or the prosecution of a delinquent child complaint in a delinquency
proceeding.
      PROSECUTOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
      PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 117.01.
      SEX OFFENSE. Means a violation of any provision of §§
133.02 to 133.05 or R.C. §§ 2907.02 to 2907.09.
(R.C. § 2907.10) (Rev. 2009)
§ 133.07 PROCURING; ENGAGEMENT IN SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE.
   (A)   No person, knowingly and for gain, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Entice or solicit another to patronize a prostitute or brothel;
      (2)   Procure a prostitute for another to patronize, or take or direct
another at the other’s request to any place for the purpose of patronizing a
prostitute.
   (B)   No person, having authority or responsibility over the use of
premises, shall knowingly permit the premises to be used for the purpose of
engaging in sexual activity for hire.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of
procuring. Except as otherwise provided in this division, procuring is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the prostitute who is procured, patronized,
or otherwise involved in a violation of division (A)(2) of this section is
under 18 years of age at the time of the violation, regardless of whether the
offender who violates division (A)(2) of this section knows the prostitute’s
age, or if a prostitute who engages in sexual activity for hire in premises
used in violation of division (B) of this section is under 18 years of age at
the time of the violation, regardless of whether the offender who violates
division (B) of this section knows the prostitute’s age, procuring is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.23) (Rev. 2013)
   (D)   No person shall recklessly induce, entice, or procure another to
engage in sexual activity for hire in exchange for the person giving anything
of value to the other person.
   (E)   As used in division (D) of this section, SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE
means an implicit or explicit agreement to provide sexual activity in exchange
for anything of value paid to the person engaging in such sexual activity, to
any person trafficking that person, or to any person associated with either
such person.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of engaging in
prostitution, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In sentencing the offender
under this division, the court shall require the offender to attend an
education or treatment program aimed at preventing persons from inducing,
enticing, or procuring another to engage in sexual activity for hire in
exchange for the person giving anything of value to the other person and,
notwithstanding the fine specified in R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a) for a misdemeanor
of the first degree, the court may impose upon the offender a fine of not more
than $1,500.
(R.C. § 2907.231) (Rev. 2022)
§ 133.08 SOLICITING; LOITERING TO ENGAGE IN.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly solicit another to engage in sexual activity
for hire in exchange for the person receiving anything of value from the other
person.
   (B)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in conduct in violation of division (A) of this section.
   (C)   As used in division (A) of this section, SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE
means an implicit or explicit agreement to provide sexual activity in exchange
for anything of value paid to the person engaging in such sexual activity, to
any person trafficking that person, or to any person associated with either
such person.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
soliciting. Soliciting is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of engaging
in solicitation after a positive HIV test, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.24) (Rev. 2022)
   (E)   No person, with purpose to solicit another to engage in sexual
activity for hire and while in or near a public place, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Beckon to, stop or attempt to stop another;
      (2)   Engage or attempt to engage another in conversation;
      (3)   Stop or attempt to stop the operator of a vehicle or approach a
stationary vehicle;
      (4)   If the offender is the operator of or a passenger in a vehicle,
stop, attempt to stop, beckon to, attempt to beckon to, or entice another to
approach or enter the vehicle of which the offender is the operator or in which
the offender is the passenger;
      (5)   Interfere with the free passage of another.
   (F)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in conduct in violation of division (E) of this section.
   (G)   As used in division (E) of this section:
      PUBLIC PLACE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A street, road, highway, thoroughfare, bikeway, walkway,
sidewalk, bridge, alley, alleyway, plaza, park, driveway, parking lot or
transportation facility.
         (b)   A doorway or entrance way to a building that fronts on a place
described in division (a) of this definition.
         (c)   A place not described in division (a) or (b) of this definition
that is open to the public.
      VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   (H)   (1)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of
loitering to engage in solicitation, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of
loitering to engage in solicitation after a positive HIV test, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.241) (Rev. 2022)
Statutory reference:
Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.09 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   No person shall engage in sexual activity for hire.
   (B)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in sexual activity for hire.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
prostitution, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of engaging
in prostitution after a positive HIV test, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.25) (Rev. 2022)
Statutory reference:
Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.10 DISSEMINATING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person, with knowledge of its character or content, shall
recklessly do any of following:
      (1)   Directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit,
rent, or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles any material or performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles;
      (2)   Directly offer or agree to sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent, or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law
enforcement officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement
officers posing as juveniles any material or performance that is obscene or
harmful to juveniles;
      (3)   While in the physical proximity of the juvenile or law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, allow any juvenile or law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile to review or peruse any material or view any live
performance that is harmful to juveniles.
   (B)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section
that involves material or a performance that is harmful to juveniles but not
obscene:
      (1)   The defendant is the parent, guardian, or spouse of the juvenile
involved.
      (2)   The juvenile involved, at the time of the conduct in question, was
accompanied by his or her parent or guardian who, with knowledge of its
character, consented to the material or performance being furnished or
presented to the juvenile.
      (3)   The juvenile exhibited to the defendant or his or her agent or
employee a draft card, driver’s license, birth record, marriage license, or
other official or apparently official document purporting to show that the
juvenile was 18 years of age or over or married, and the person to whom the
document was exhibited did not otherwise have reasonable cause to believe that
the juvenile was under the age of 18 and unmarried.
   (C)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section,
involving material or a performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles,
that the material or performance was furnished or presented for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, governmental, judicial, or other proper
purpose, by a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher,
librarian, clergy, prosecutor, judge, or other proper person.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, mistake of
age is not a defense to a charge under this section.
   (D)   (1)   A person directly sells, delivers, furnishes, disseminates,
provides, exhibits, rents, or presents or directly offers or agrees to sell,
deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent, or present material or a
performance to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section by means of an electronic method of
remotely transmitting information if the person knows or has reason to believe
that the person receiving the information is a juvenile or the group of persons
receiving the information are juveniles.
      (2)   A person remotely transmitting information by means of a method of
mass distribution does not directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent, or present or directly offer or agree to sell, deliver,
furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent, or present the material or
performance in question to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section if either of the following applies:
         (a)   The person has inadequate information to know or have reason to
believe that a particular recipient of the information or offer is a juvenile.
         (b)   The method of mass distribution does not provide the person the
ability to prevent a particular recipient from receiving the information.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disseminating matter
harmful to juveniles. If the material or performance involved is harmful to
juveniles except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the material or performance
involved is obscene, violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.31) (Rev. 2004)
   (F)   Presumptions, notice and defense.
      (1)   An owner or manager, or agent or employee of an owner or manager,
of a bookstore, newsstand, theater, or other commercial establishment engaged
in selling material or exhibiting performances, who, in the course of business
does any of the acts prohibited by this section is presumed to have knowledge
of the character of the material or performance involved if the owner, manager,
or agent or employee of the owner or manager has actual notice of the nature of
such material or performance, whether or not the owner, manager, or agent or
employee of the owner or manager has precise knowledge of its contents.
      (2)   Without limitation on the manner in which such notice may be given,
actual notice of the character of material or a performance may be given in
writing by the chief legal officer of the municipality. Such notice, regardless
of the manner in which it is given, shall identify the sender, identify the
material or performance involved, state whether it is obscene or harmful to
juveniles, and bear the date of such notice.
      (3)   This §
133.10 does not apply to a motion picture operator or projectionist acting
within the scope of employment as an employee of the owner or manager of the
theater or other place for the showing of motion pictures to the general
public, and having no managerial responsibility or financial interest in the
operator’s or projectionist’s place of employment, other than wages.
      (4)   (a)   The provisions of §§
133.10,
133.11 and 133.12(A) do not apply to a person solely because the person
provided access or connection to or from an electronic method of remotely
transferring information not under that person’s control, including having
provided capabilities that are incidental to providing access or connection to
or from the electronic method of remotely transferring the information, and
that do not include the creation of the content of the material that is the
subject of the access or connection.
         (b)   Division (F)(4)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who conspires with an entity actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of §
133.10,
133.11, or 133.12 or who knowingly advertises the availability of material of
that nature.
         (c)   Division (F)(4)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who provides access or connection to an electronic method of remotely
transferring information that is engaged in the violation of §
133.10,
133.11, or 133.12 and that contain content that person has selected and
introduced into the electronic method of remotely transferring information or
content over which that person exercises editorial control.
      (5)   An employer is not guilty of a violation of §
133.10,
133.11, or 133.12 based on the actions of an employee or agent of the employer
unless the employee’s or agent’s conduct is within the scope of the employee’s
or agent’s employment or agency, and the employer does either of the following:
         (a)   With knowledge of the employee’s or agent’s conduct, the
employer authorizes or ratifies the conduct.
         (b)   The employer recklessly disregards the employee’s or agent’s
conduct.
      (6)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under §
133.10 or
133.11 as the section applies to an image transmitted through the internet or
other electronic method of remotely transmitting information that the person
charged with violating the section has taken, in good faith, reasonable,
effective, and appropriate actions under the circumstances to restrict or
prevent access by juveniles to material that is harmful to juveniles, including
any method that is feasible under available technology.
(R.C. § 2907.35) (Rev. 2004)
§ 133.11 DISPLAYING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person who has custody, control, or supervision of a commercial
establishment, with knowledge of the character or content of the material
involved, shall display at the establishment any material that is harmful to
juveniles and that is open to view by juveniles as part of the invited general
public.
   (B)   It is not a violation of division (A) of this section if the material
in question is displayed by placing it behind “blinder racks” or similar
devices that cover at least the lower two-thirds of the material, if the
material in question is wrapped or placed behind the counter, or if the
material in question otherwise is covered or located so that the portion that
is harmful to juveniles is not open to the view of juveniles.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of displaying matter harmful
to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day during which the
offender is in violation of this section constitutes a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2907.311)
Cross-reference:
Presumptions, notice and defense, see §
133.10(F)
§ 133.12 DECEPTION TO OBTAIN MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of enabling a juvenile to obtain any
material or gain admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles,
shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is the parent, guardian, or spouse
of the juvenile.
      (2)   Furnish the juvenile with any identification or document purporting
to show that the juvenile is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (B)   No juvenile, for the purpose of obtaining any material or gaining
admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles, shall do either of
the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is 18 years of age or over or
married.
      (2)   Exhibit any identification or document purporting to show that he
or she is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of deception to obtain matter
harmful to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the second degree. A juvenile who
violates division (B) of this section shall be adjudged an unruly child, with
the disposition of the case as may be appropriate under R.C. Chapter 2151.
(R.C. § 2907.33)
Cross-reference:
Presumptions, notice and defense, see §
133.10(F)
Statutory reference:
Juvenile Court, see R.C. Chapter 2151
§ 133.13 RULES OF EVIDENCE.
   (A)   In any case in which it is necessary to prove that a place is a
brothel, evidence as to the reputation of such place and as to the reputation
of the persons who inhabit or frequent it is admissible on the question of
whether such place is or is not a brothel.
   (B)   In any case in which it is necessary to prove that a person is a
prostitute, evidence as to the reputation of such person is admissible on the
question of whether such person is or is not a prostitute.
   (C)   In any prosecution for a violation of §§
133.07 through 133.09, proof of a prior conviction of the accused of any such
offense or substantially equivalent offense is admissible in support of the
charge.
   (D)   The prohibition contained in R.C. § 2317.02(D) against testimony by a
husband or wife concerning communications between them does not apply, and the
accused’s spouse may testify concerning any such communication in any of the
following cases:
      (1)   When the husband or wife is charged with a violation of §
133.07 and the spouse testifying was the prostitute involved in the offense or
the person who used the offender’s premises to engage in sexual activity for
hire;
      (2)   When the husband or wife is charged with a violation of §
133.08(A) or §
133.09.
(R.C. § 2907.26) (Rev. 1999)
§ 133.14 DECLARATORY JUDGMENT.
   (A)   Without limitation on the persons otherwise entitled to bring an
action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2721, involving the
same issue, the following persons have standing to bring a declaratory judgment
action to determine whether particular materials or performances are obscene or
harmful to juveniles:
      (1)   The chief legal officer of the municipality if and when there is
reasonable cause to believe that R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, is being or is about to be
violated;
      (2)   Any person who, pursuant to R.C. § 2907.35(B) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, has received notice in writing from the chief
legal officer stating that particular materials or performances are obscene or
harmful to juveniles.
   (B)   Any party to an action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to division
(A) of this section is entitled, upon the party’s request, to trial on the
merits within five days after joinder of the issues, and the court shall render
judgment within five days after trial is concluded.
   (C)   An action for a declaratory judgement pursuant to division (A) of this
section shall not be brought during the pendency of any civil action or
criminal prosecution when the character of the particular materials or
performances involved is at issue in the pending case, and either of the
following applies:
      (1)   Either of the parties to the action for a declaratory judgment is a
party to the pending case;
      (2)   A judgment in the pending case will necessarily constitute res
judicata as to the character of the materials or performances involved.
   (D)   A civil action or criminal prosecution in which the character of
particular materials or performances is at issue, brought during the pendency
of an action for a declaratory judgment involving the same issue, shall be
stayed during the pendency of the action for a declaratory judgment.
   (E)   The fact that a violation of R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, occurs prior to a judicial
determination of the character of the material or performance involved in the
violation does not relieve the offender of criminal liability for the
violation, even though prosecution may be stayed pending the judicial
determination.
(R.C. § 2907.36) (Rev. 2000)
§ 133.15 INJUNCTION; ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Where it appears that R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, is being or is about to be
violated, the chief legal officer of the municipality may bring an action to
enjoin the violation. The defendant, upon his or her request, is entitled to
trial on the merits within five days after the joinder of the issues, and the
court shall render judgment within five days after the trial is concluded.
   (B)   Premises used or occupied for repeated violations of R.C. § 2907.31 or
R.C. § 2907.32, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2907.37) (Rev. 1999)
Statutory reference:
Disseminating matter harmful to juveniles, felony, see R.C. § 2907.31
Pandering obscenity, felony, see R.C. § 2907.32
§ 133.16 UNLAWFUL OPERATION OF VIEWING BOOTHS DEPICTING SEXUAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Means an entity that is open to the public and
to which either of the following applies:
         (a)   It has a substantial or significant portion of its stock in
trade of the sale, rental, or viewing of visual materials or performances
depicting sexual conduct.
         (b)   It has as a principal business purpose the sale, rental, or
viewing of visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct.
      VISUAL MATERIALS OR PERFORMANCES. Means films, videos, CD-ROM discs,
streaming video, or other motion pictures.
   (B)   No person who has custody, control, or supervision of a commercial
establishment, with knowledge of the character of the visual material or
performance involved, shall knowingly permit the use of, or offer the use of,
viewing booths, stalls, or partitioned portions of a room located in the
commercial establishment for the purpose of viewing visual materials or
performances depicting sexual conduct unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The inside of each booth, stall, or partitioned room is visible
from, and at least one side of each booth, stall, or partitioned room is open
to, a continuous and contiguous main aisle or hallway that is open to the
public areas of the commercial establishment and is not obscured by any
curtain, door, or other covering or enclosure.
      (2)   No booth, stall, or partitioned room is designed, constructed,
pandered, or allowed to be used for the purpose of encouraging or facilitating
nudity or sexual activity on the part of or between patrons or members of the
public, and no booth, stall, or partitioned room has any aperture, hole, or
opening for the purpose of encouraging or facilitating nudity or sexual
activity.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that
either of the following applies to the involved visual materials or
performances:
      (1)   The visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct are
disseminated or presented for a bona fide medical, scientific, educational,
religious, governmental, judicial, or other proper purpose and by or to a
physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher, person pursuing bona
fide studies or research, librarian, member of the clergy, prosecutor, judge,
or other person having a proper interest in the visual materials or
performances.
      (2)   The visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct,
taken as a whole, would be found by a reasonable person to have serious
literary, artistic, political, or scientific value or are presented or
disseminated in good faith for a serious literary, artistic, political, or
scientific purpose and are not pandered for their prurient appeal.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of permitting unlawful
operation of viewing booths depicting sexual conduct, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 2907.38) (Rev. 2007)
§ 133.17 JUVENILES ON THE PREMISES OF ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ADULT ARCADE. Means any place to which the public is permitted or invited
in which coin-operated, slug- operated, or electronically, electrically, or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other
image-producing devices are regularly maintained to show images to five or
fewer persons per machine at any one time, and in which the images so displayed
are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon matter exhibiting or
describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE.
         (a)   Means a commercial establishment that, for any form of
consideration, has as a significant or substantial portion of its stock-in-
trade in, derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues from,
devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior business or
advertising to, or maintains a substantial section of its sales or display
space for the sale or rental of any of the following:
            1.   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, slides, or
other visual representations, that are characterized by their emphasis upon the
exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas;
            2.   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia that are designed for
use or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of self or others.
         (b)   Includes a commercial establishment as defined in R.C. §
2907.38. An establishment may have other principal business purposes that do
not involve the offering for sale, rental, or viewing of materials exhibiting
or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas and
still be categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty store, or adult video
store. The existence of other principal business purposes does not exempt an
establishment from being categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, or adult video store so long as one of its principal business purposes
is offering for sale or rental, for some form of consideration, such materials
that exhibit or describe specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
      ADULT CABARET. Means a nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant, bottle
club, or similar commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages
are served, that regularly features any of the following:
         (a)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity;
         (b)   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities;
         (c)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions that are distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT. Means the sale, rental, or exhibition, for any form
of consideration, of books, films, video cassettes, magazines, periodicals, or
live performances that are characterized by an emphasis on the exposure or
display of specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activity.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT. Means an adult arcade, adult
bookstore, adult novelty store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motion
picture theater, adult theater, nude or seminude model studio, or sexual
encounter establishment. An establishment in which a medical practitioner,
psychologist, psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the
state engages in medically approved and recognized therapy, including but not
limited to massage therapy, as regulated pursuant to R.C. § 4731.15, is not an
“adult entertainment establishment”.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. Means a commercial establishment where
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar photographic
reproductions that are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon
the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas are regularly shown for any form of consideration.
      ADULT THEATER. Means a theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar
commercial establishment that, for any form of consideration, regularly
features persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity or live
performances that are characterized by their emphasis upon the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
      DISTINGUISHED OR CHARACTERIZED BY THEIR EMPHASIS UPON. Means the dominant
or principal character and theme of the object described by this phrase. For
instance, when the phrase refers to films “that are distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas”, the films so described are
those whose dominant or principal character and theme are the exhibition or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      NUDE OR SEMINUDE MODEL STUDIO. Means any place where a person, who
regularly appears in a state of nudity or seminudity, is provided for money or
any other form of consideration to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted,
sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by other persons. A modeling
class or studio is not a nude or seminude model studio and is not subject to
this chapter if it is operated in any of the following ways:
         (a)   By a college or university supported entirely or partly by
taxation;
         (b)   By a private college or university that maintains and operates
educational programs, the credits for which are transferable to a college or
university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
         (c)   In a structure that has no sign visible from the exterior of the
structure and no other advertising indicating that a person appearing in a
state of nudity or seminudity is available for viewing, if in order to
participate in a class in the structure, a student must enroll at least three
days in advance of the class and if not more than one nude or seminude model is
on the premises at any one time.
      NUDITY, NUDE, or STATE OF NUDITY. Means the showing of the human male or
female genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft, or cleavage with less
than a fully opaque covering; or the showing of the female breasts with less
than a fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple.
      REGULARLY FEATURES or REGULARLY SHOWN. Means a consistent or substantial
course of conduct, such that the films or performances exhibited constitute a
substantial portion of the films or performances offered as a part of the
ongoing business of the adult entertainment establishment.
      SEMINUDE or STATE OF SEMINUDITY. Means a state of dress in which opaque
clothing covers not more than the genitals, pubic region, and nipple of the
female breast, as well as portions of the body covered by supporting straps or
devices.
      SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT.
         (a)   Means a business or commercial establishment that, as one of its
principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration a place where
either of the following occur:
            1.   Two or more persons may congregate, associate, or consort for
the purpose of engaging in specified sexual activities.
            2.   Two or more persons appear nude or seminude for the purpose of
displaying their nude or seminude bodies for their receipt of consideration or
compensation in any type or form.
         (b)   An establishment where a medical practitioner, psychologist,
psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the state engages in
medically approved and recognized therapy, including but not limited to massage
therapy, as regulated pursuant to R.C. § 4731.15, is not a “sexual encounter
establishment”.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Means the cleft of the buttocks, anus, male
or female genitals, or the female breast.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, or actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation, or sodomy;
         (b)   Excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of
the activities described in division (a) of this definition.
   (B)   No person knowingly shall allow an individual, including but not
limited to a patron, customer, or employee, who is under 18 years of age on the
premises of an adult entertainment establishment.
   (C)   No individual who is under 18 years of age knowingly shall show or
give false information concerning the individual’s name or age, or other false
identification, for the purpose of gaining entrance to an adult entertainment
establishment.
   (D)   A person shall not be found guilty of a violation of division (B) of
this section if the person raises as an affirmative defense and if the jury or,
in a nonjury trial, the court finds the person has established by a
preponderance of the evidence, all of the following:
      (1)   The individual gaining entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment exhibited to an operator, employee, agent, or independent
contractor of the adult entertainment establishment a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card issued under R.C. §§ 4507.50 and
4507.52 showing that the individual was then at least 18 years of age.
      (2)   The operator, employee, agent, or independent contractor made a
bona fide effort to ascertain the true age of the individual gaining entrance
to the adult entertainment establishment by checking the identification
presented, at the time of entrance, to ascertain that the description on the
identification compared with the appearance of the individual and that the
identification had not been altered in any way.
      (3)   The operator, employee, agent, or independent contractor had reason
to believe that the individual gaining entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment was at least 18 years of age.
   (E)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense described in
division (D) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or the
deputy registrar who issued a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an
identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50 and 4507.52 shall be permitted to
submit certified copies of the records, in the Registrar’s or deputy
registrar’s possession, of the issuance of the license or identification card
in question, in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles in the action.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
permitting a juvenile on the premises of an adult entertainment establishment,
a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day a person violates this division
constitutes a separate offense.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of use by a
juvenile of false information to enter an adult entertainment establishment, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if committed by
an adult.
(R.C. § 2907.39) (Rev. 2007)
§ 133.18 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; ILLEGAL OPERATION AND ACTIVITY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. Means a commercial establishment
that has as a significant or substantial portion of its stock in trade or
inventory in, derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues
from, devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior business or
advertising to, or maintains a substantial section of its sales or display
space for the sale or rental, for any form of consideration, of books,
magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or photographs, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, slides, or other visual
representations, that are characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition
or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT CABARET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. Means a commercial establishment where
films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or similar photographic
reproductions that are characterized by their emphasis upon the display of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas are regularly shown
to more than five individuals for any form of consideration.
      CHARACTERIZED BY. Describing the essential character or quality of an
item.
      EMPLOYEE. Means any individual who performs any service on the premises
of a sexually oriented business on a full-time, part-time, or contract basis,
regardless of whether the individual is denominated an employee, independent
contractor, agent, or otherwise, but does not include an individual exclusively
on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or for the delivery
of goods to the premises.
      NUDE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      NUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      OPERATOR. Means any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented
business who causes the business to function or who puts or keeps in operation
the business or who is authorized to manage the business or exercise overall
operational control of the business premises.
      PATRON. Means any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented
business except for any of the following:
         (a)   An operator or an employee of the sexually oriented business;
         (b)   An individual who is on the premises exclusively for repair or
maintenance of the premises or for the delivery of goods to the premises;
         (c)   A public employee or a volunteer firefighter emergency medical
services worker acting within the scope of the public employee’s or volunteer’s
duties as a public employee or volunteer.
      PREMISES. Means the real property on which the sexually oriented business
is located and all appurtenances to the real property, including, but not
limited, to the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways, and
parking lots or parking garages adjacent to the real property under the
ownership, control, or supervision of the owner or operator of the sexually
oriented business.
      REGULARLY. Means consistently or repeatedly.
      SEMINUDE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      SEXUAL DEVICE. Means any three-dimensional object designed and marketed
for stimulation of the male or female human genitals or anus or female breasts
or for sadomasochistic use or abuse of oneself or others, including but not
limited to dildos, vibrators, penis pumps, and physical representations of the
human genital organs, but not including devices primarily intended for
protection against sexually transmitted diseases or for preventing pregnancy.
      SEXUAL DEVICE SHOP. Means a commercial establishment that regularly
features sexual devices, but not including any pharmacy, drug store, medical
clinic, or establishment primarily dedicated to providing medical or healthcare
products or services, and not including any commercial establishment that does
not restrict access to its premises by reason of age.
      SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. Means a business or commercial enterprise that,
as one of its principal business purposes, purports to offer for any form of
consideration physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
individuals of the opposite sex when one or more of the individuals is nude or
seminude.
      SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Means an adult bookstore, adult video store,
adult cabaret, adult motion picture theater, sexual device shop, or sexual
encounter center, but does not include a business solely by reason of its
showing, selling, or renting materials that may depict sex.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Includes human genitals, pubic region, and
buttocks and the human female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Means sexual intercourse, oral copulation,
masturbation, or sodomy, or excretory functions as a part of or in connection
with any of these activities.
      STATE OF NUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      STATE OF SEMINUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
   (B)   No sexually oriented business shall be or remain open for business
between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. on any day, except that a sexually
oriented business that holds a liquor permit pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4303 may
remain open until the hour specified in that permit if it does not conduct,
offer, or allow sexually oriented entertainment activity in which the
performers appear nude.
   (C)   (1)   No patron who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family
shall knowingly touch any employee while that employee is nude or seminude or
touch the clothing of any employee while that employee is nude or seminude.
      (2)   No employee who regularly appears nude or seminude on the premises
of a sexually oriented business, while on the premises of that sexually
oriented business and while nude or seminude, shall knowingly touch a patron
who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who
is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or the clothing of a patron
who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who
is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or allow a patron who is not
a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who is not a
member of the employee’
   (D)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegally
operating a sexually oriented business, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal
sexually oriented activity in a sexually oriented business. If the offender
touches a specified anatomical area of the patron or employee, or the clothing
covering a specified anatomical area, a violation of division (C) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender does not touch a
specified anatomical area of the patron or employee, or the clothing covering a
specified anatomical area, a violation of division (C) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2907.40) (Rev. 2009)
Statutory reference:
State indemnification for certain municipal liability stemming from local adult
business regulations, see R.C. § 715.55
§ 133.19 UNLAWFUL ADVERTISING OF MASSAGE.
   (A)   No person, by means of a statement, solicitation, or offer in a print
or electronic publication, sign, placard, storefront display, or other medium,
shall advertise massage, relaxation massage, any other massage technique or
method, or any related service, with the suggestion or promise of sexual
activity.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful advertising of
massage, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (C)   Nothing in this section prevents the municipality from enacting any
regulation of the advertising of massage further than and in addition to the
provisions of divisions (A) and (B) of this section.
   (D)   As used in this section, SEXUAL ACTIVITY has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2907.01.
(R.C. § 2927.17) (Rev. 2015)
§ 133.20 NONCONSENSUAL DISSEMINATION OF PRIVATE SEXUAL IMAGES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CABLE SERVICE PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.01.
      DIRECT-TO-HOME SATELLITE SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. §
303, as amended.
      DISSEMINATE. Means to post, distribute, or publish on a computer device,
computer network, web site, or other electronic device or medium of
communication.
      IMAGE. Means a photograph, film, videotape, digital recording, or other
depiction or portrayal of a person.
      INTERACTIVE COMPUTER SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in the
“Telecommunications Act of 1996”, 47 U.S.C. § 230, as amended.
      INTERNET PROVIDER. Means a provider of internet service, including all of
the following:
         (a)   Broadband service, however defined or classified by the Federal
Communications Commission;
         (b)   Information service or telecommunications service, both as
defined in the “Telecommunications Act of 1996”, 47 U.S.C. § 153, as amended;
         (c)   Internet protocol-enabled services, as defined in R.C. §
4927.01.
      MOBILE SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153, as amended.
      SEXUAL ACT. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Sexual activity;
         (b)   Masturbation;
         (c)   An act involving a bodily substance that is performed for the
purpose of sexual arousal or gratification;
         (d)   Sado-masochistic abuse.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153,
as amended.
      VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly disseminate an image of another person if
all of the following apply:
      (1)   The person in the image is 18 years of age or older.
      (2)   The person in the image can be identified from the image itself or
from information displayed in connection with the image and the offender
supplied the identifying information.
      (3)   The person in the image is in a state of nudity or is engaged in a
sexual act.
      (4)   The image is disseminated without consent from the person in the
image.
      (5)   The image is disseminated with intent to harm the person in the
image.
   (C)   This section does not prohibit the dissemination of an image if any of
the following apply:
      (1)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of a criminal
investigation that is otherwise lawful.
      (2)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of, or in connection
with, the reporting of unlawful conduct.
      (3)   The image is part of a news report or commentary or an artistic or
expressive work, such as a performance, work of art, literary work, theatrical
work, musical work, motion picture, film, or audiovisual work.
      (4)   The image is disseminated by a law enforcement officer, or a
corrections officer or guard in a detention facility, acting within the scope
of the person’s official duties.
      (5)   The image is disseminated for another lawful public purpose.
      (6)   The person in the image is knowingly and willingly in a state of
nudity or engaged in a sexual act and is knowingly and willingly in a location
in which the person does not have a reasonable expectation of privacy.
      (7)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of medical treatment or
examination.
   (D)   The following entities are not liable for a violation of this section
solely as a result of an image or other information provided by another person:
      (1)   A provider of interactive computer service;
      (2)   A mobile service;
      (3)   A telecommunications carrier;
      (4)   An internet provider;
      (5)   A cable service provider;
      (6)   A direct-to-home satellite service;
      (7)   A video service provider.
   (E)   Any conduct that is a violation of this section and any other section
of this Code or the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, the
other section, or both sections.
   (F)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (F)(1)(b), (F)(1)
(c), or (F)(1)(d) of this section, whoever violates this section is guilty of
nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images, a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of this section or any substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images is
a misdemeanor of the second degree.
         (c)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or any substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, nonconsensual dissemination of
private sexual images is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (d)   If the offender is under 18 years of age and the person in the
image is not more than five years older than the offender, the offender shall
not be prosecuted under this section.
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty or disposition authorized or
required by law, the court may order any person who is convicted of a violation
of this section or who is adjudicated delinquent by reason of a violation of
this section to criminally forfeit all of the following property to the state
under R.C. Chapter 2981:
         (a)   Any profits or proceeds and any property the person has acquired
or maintained in violation of this section that the sentencing court determines
to have been acquired or maintained as a result of the violation;
         (b)   Any interest in, securities of, claim against, or property or
contractual right of any kind affording a source of influence over any
enterprise that the person has established, operated, controlled, or conducted
in violation of this section that the sentencing court determines to have been
acquired or maintained as a result of the violation.
   (G)   A victim of a violation of this section may commence a civil cause of
action against the offender, as described in R.C. § 2307.66.
(R.C. § 2917.211) (Rev. 2020)
§ 133.99 SENTENCING FOR SEXUALLY ORIENTED OFFENSES; SEXUAL PREDATORS;
REGISTRATION.
   (A)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, and the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim
offender relative to the offense or the offense is any offense listed in R.C. §
2901.07(D)(1) to (D)(3), the judge shall include in the offender’s sentence a
statement that the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim offender,
shall comply with the requirements of R.C. § 2950.03, and shall require the
offender to submit to a DNA specimen collection procedure pursuant to R.C. §
2901.07.
   (B)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or a
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, the judge shall include in the sentence a summary of the
offender’s duties imposed under R.C. §§ 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05, and
2950.06, and the duration of the duties. The judge shall inform the offender,
at the time of sentencing, of those duties and of their duration. If required
under R.C. § 2950.03(A)(2), the judge shall perform the duties specified in
that section or, if required under R.C. § 2950.03(A)(6), the judge shall
perform the duties specified in that division.
(R.C. § 2929.23) (Rev. 2008)
Cross-reference:
Sentencing generally, see
Chapter 130
CHAPTER 134: GAMBLING OFFENSES
Section
   
134.01   Definitions
   
134.02   Prohibitions against gambling; exception
   
134.03   Operating a gambling house
   
134.04   Public gaming
   
134.05   Cheating
   
134.06   Regulations concerning operation of licensed bingo game
   
134.07   Records to be kept
   
134.08   Requirements for bingo game operators
   
134.09   Bingo games for amusement only
   
134.10   Prohibitions where instant bingo game is conducted
   
134.11   Raffle drawings
   
134.12   Instant bingo other than at bingo sessions
   
134.13   Restrictions on owner or lessor of location at instant bingo
   
134.14   Skill-based amusement machines; prohibited conduct
   
134.15   Electronic instant bingo; prohibited conduct
Statutory reference:
Conducting an illegal bingo game, felony, see R.C. § 2915.07
Licensing bingo games by Attorney General, see R.C. § 2915.08
Licensing distributors of bingo supplies by Attorney General, see R.C. §
2915.081
Licensing manufacturers of bingo supplies by Attorney General, see R.C. §
2915.082
§ 134.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BET. The hazarding of anything of value upon the result of an event,
undertaking, or contingency, but does not include a bona fide business risk.
   BINGO. Either of the following:
      (1)   A game with all of the following characteristics:
         (a)   The participants use bingo cards or sheets, including paper
formats and electronic representation or image formats, that are divided into
25 spaces arranged in five horizontal and five vertical rows of spaces, with
each space, except the central space, being designated by a combination of a
letter and a number and with the central space being designated as a free
space;
         (b)   The participants cover the spaces on the bingo cards or sheets
that correspond to combinations of letters and numbers that are announced by a
bingo game operator;
         (c)   A bingo game operator announces combinations of letters and
numbers that appear on objects that a bingo game operator selects by chance,
either manually or mechanically, from a receptacle that contains 75 objects at
the beginning of each game, each object marked by a different combination of a
letter and a number that corresponds to one of the 75 possible combinations of
a letter and a number that can appear on the bingo cards or sheets;
         (d)   The winner of the bingo game includes any participant who
properly announces during the interval between the announcements of letters and
numbers, as described in division (1)(c) of this definition, that a
predetermined and pre-announced pattern of spaces has been covered on a bingo
card or sheet being used by the participant.
      (2)   Instant bingo, electronic instant bingo, and raffles.
   BINGO GAME OPERATOR. Any person, except security personnel, who performs
work or labor at the site of bingo including but not limited to collecting
money from participants, handing out bingo cards or sheets or objects to cover
spaces on bingo cards or sheets, selecting from a receptacle the objects that
contain the combination of letters and numbers that appear on bingo cards or
sheets, calling out the combinations of letters and numbers, distributing
prizes, selling or redeeming instant bingo tickets or cards, selling or
redeeming electronic instant bingo tickets, credits, or vouchers, accessing an
electronic instant bingo system other than as a participant, supervising the
operation of a punch board, selling raffle tickets, selecting raffle tickets
from a receptacle and announcing the winning numbers in a raffle, and
preparing, selling, and serving food or beverages. “Bingo game operator” does
not include a person who is installing, maintaining, updating, or repairing an
electronic instant bingo system.
   BINGO SESSION. A period that includes both of the following:
      (1)   Not to exceed five continuous hours for the conduct of one or more
games described in division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in this section,
instant bingo, and electronic instant bingo;
      (2)   A period for the conduct of instant bingo and electronic instant
bingo for not more than two hours before and not more than two hours after the
period described in division (1) of this definition.
   BINGO SUPPLIES. Bingo cards or sheets; instant bingo tickets or cards;
electronic bingo aids; raffle tickets; punch boards; seal cards; instant bingo
ticket dispensers; electronic instant bingo systems; and devices for selecting
or displaying the combination of bingo letters and numbers or raffle tickets.
Items that are “bingo supplies” are not gambling devices if sold or otherwise
provided, and used, in accordance with this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915. For
purposes of this chapter, “bingo supplies” are not to be considered equipment
used to conduct a bingo game.
   BOOKMAKING. The business of receiving or paying off bets.
   CHAMBER OF COMMERCE. Any organization of individuals, professionals, and
businesses that has the purpose to advance the commercial, financial,
industrial, and civic interests of the community and that is, and has received
from the Internal Revenue Service a determination letter that currently is in
effect stating that the organization is, exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(6).
   CHARITABLE BINGO GAME. Any bingo game described in divisions (1) or (2) of
the definition of “bingo” in this section that is conducted by a charitable
organization that has obtained a license pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08 and the
proceeds of which are used for a charitable purpose.
   CHARITABLE INSTANT BINGO ORGANIZATION. An organization that is exempt from
federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3) and
is a charitable organization as defined in this section. The term does not
include a charitable organization that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3) and that is created by a
veteran’s organization, a fraternal organization, or a sporting organization in
regards to bingo conducted or assisted by a veteran’s organization, a fraternal
organization, or a sporting organization pursuant to R.C. § 2915.13, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, “charitable
organization” means either of the following:
         (a)   An organization that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
         (b)   A volunteer rescue service organization, volunteer firefighter’s
organization, veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §§ 501(c)
(4), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10) or 501(c)(19).
      (2)   To qualify as a charitable organization, an organization shall have
been in continuous existence as such in this state for a period of two years
immediately preceding either the making of an application for a bingo license
under R.C. § 2915.08 or the conducting of any game of chance as provided in
R.C. § 2915.02(D), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   CHARITABLE PURPOSE. Means that the net profit of bingo, other than instant
bingo or electronic instant bingo, is used by, or is given, donated, or
otherwise transferred to, any of the following:
      (1)   Any organization that is described in IRC §§ 509(a)(1), 509(a)(2),
or 509(a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an organization that is tax
exempt under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
      (2)   A veteran’s organization that is a post, chapter, or organization
of veterans, or an auxiliary unit or society of, or a trust or foundation for,
any such post, chapter, or organization organized in the United States or any
of its possessions, at least 75% of the members of which are veterans and
substantially all of the other members of which are individuals who are
spouses, widows, or widowers of veterans, or such individuals, provided that no
part of the net earnings of such post, chapter, or organization inures to the
benefit of any private shareholder or individual, and further provided that the
net profit is used by the post, chapter, or organization for the charitable
purposes set forth in R.C. § 5739.02(B)(12), is used for awarding scholarships
to or for attendance at an institution mentioned in that division of the Ohio
Revised Code, is donated to a governmental agency, or is used for nonprofit
youth activities, the purchase of United States or Ohio flags that are donated
to schools, youth groups, or other bona fide nonprofit organizations, promotion
of patriotism, or disaster relief;
      (3)   A fraternal organization that has been in continuous existence in
this state for 15 years and that uses the net profit exclusively for religious,
charitable, scientific, literary, or educational purposes, or for the
prevention of cruelty to children or animals, if contributions for such use
would qualify as a deductible charitable contribution under IRC § 170;
      (4)   A volunteer firefighter’s organization that uses the net profit for
the purposes set forth in the definition of “volunteer firefighter’s
organization” in this section.
   COMMUNITY ACTION AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 122.66.
   CONDUCT. To back, promote, organize, manage, carry on, sponsor, or prepare
for the operation of bingo or a game of chance, a scheme of chance, or a
sweepstakes.
   DEAL. A single game of instant bingo tickets, or a single game of electronic
instant bingo tickets, all with the same serial number.
   DISTRIBUTOR. Any person who purchases or obtains bingo supplies and who does
either of the following:
      (1)   Sells, offers for sale, or otherwise provides or offers to provide
the bingo supplies to another person for use in this state;
      (2)   Modifies, converts, adds to, or removes parts from the bingo
supplies to further their promotion or sale for use in this state.
   ELECTRONIC BINGO AID.
      (1)   An electronic device used by a participant to monitor bingo cards
or sheets purchased at the time and place of a bingo session and that does all
of the following:
         (a)   It provides a means for a participant to input numbers and
letters announced by a bingo caller.
         (b)   It compares the numbers and letters entered by the participant
to the bingo faces previously stored in the memory of the device.
         (c)   It identifies a winning bingo pattern.
      (2)   The term does not include any device into which a coin, currency,
token, or an equivalent is inserted to activate play.
   ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO.
      (1)   A form of bingo that consists of an electronic or digital
representation of instant bingo in which a participant wins a prize if the
participant’s electronic instant bingo ticket contains a combination of numbers
or symbols that was designated in advance as a winning combination, and to
which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Each deal has a predetermined, finite number of winning and
losing tickets and a predetermined prize amount and deal structure, provided
that there may be multiple winning combinations in each deal and multiple
winning tickets.
         (b)   Each electronic instant bingo ticket within a deal has a unique
serial number that is not regenerated.
         (c)   Each electronic instant bingo ticket within a deal is sold for
the same price.
         (d)   After a participant purchases an electronic instant bingo
ticket, the combination of numbers or symbols on the ticket is revealed to the
participant.
         (e)   The reveal of numbers or symbols on the ticket may incorporate
an entertainment or bonus theme, provided that the reveal does not include
spinning reels that resemble a slot machine.
         (f)   The reveal theme, if any, does not require additional
consideration or award any prize other than any predetermined prize associated
with the electronic instant bingo ticket.
      (2)   The term shall not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any game, entertainment, or bonus theme that replicates or
simulates any of the following:
            1.   The gambling games of keno, blackjack, roulette, poker, craps,
other casino-style table games;
            2.   Horse racing;
            3.   Gambling games offered in this state on slot machines or video
lottery terminals. As used in this division, “video lottery terminal” has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 3770.21.
         (b)   Any device operated by dropping one or more coins or tokens into
a slot and pulling a handle or pushing a button or touchpoint on a touchscreen
to activate one to three or more rotating reels marked into horizontal segments
by varying symbols, where the predetermined prize amount depends on how and how
many of the symbols line up when the rotating reels come to a rest;
         (c)   Any device that includes a coin or token slot, tray, or hopper
and the ability to dispense coins, cash, tokens, or anything of value other
than a credit ticket voucher.
   ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO SYSTEM. Means both of the following:
      (1)   A mechanical, electronic, digital, or video device and associated
software to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   It is used by not more than one player at a time to play
electronic instant bingo on a single screen that is physically connected to the
device;
         (b)   It is located on the premises of the principal place of business
of a veteran’s or fraternal organization that holds a type II or type III bingo
license to conduct electronic instant bingo at that location issued under R.C.
§ 2915.08.
      (2)   Any associated equipment or software used to manage, monitor, or
document any aspect of electronic instant bingo.
   EXPENSES. The reasonable amount of gross profit actually expended for all of
the following:
      (1)   The purchase or lease of bingo supplies;
      (2)   The annual license fee required under R.C. § 2915.08;
      (3)   Bank fees and service charges for a bingo session or game account
described in R.C. § 2915.10;
      (4)   Audits and accounting services;
      (5)   Safes;
      (6)   Cash registers;
      (7)   Hiring security personnel;
      (8)   Advertising bingo;
      (9)   Renting premises in which to conduct a bingo session;
      (10)   Tables and chairs;
      (11)   Expenses for maintaining and operating a charitable organization’s
facilities, including but not limited to a post home, club house, lounge,
tavern, or canteen and any grounds attached to the post home, club house,
lounge, tavern, or canteen;
      (12)   Payment of real property taxes and assessments that are levied on
a premises on which bingo is conducted;
      (13)   Any other product or service directly related to the conduct of
bingo that is authorized in rules adopted by the Attorney General under R.C. §
2915.08(F)(1).
   FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION. Any society, order, state headquarters, or
association within this state, except a college or high school fraternity, that
is not organized for profit, that is a branch, lodge, or chapter of a national
or state organization, that exists exclusively for the common business or
sodality of its members.
   GAMBLING DEVICE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A book, totalizer, or other equipment used for recording bets;
      (2)   A ticket, token, or other device representing a chance, share, or
interest in a scheme of chance or evidencing a bet;
      (3)   A deck of cards, dice, gaming table, roulette wheel, slot machine,
or other apparatus designed for use in connection with a game of chance;
      (4)   Any equipment, device, apparatus, or paraphernalia specially
designed for gambling purposes;
      (5)   Bingo supplies sold or otherwise provided, or used, in violation of
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   GAMBLING OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. Chapter 2915;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 or a violation of R.C. § 2915.06
as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or of the United States, of which gambling is an
element;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   GAME FLARE. The board or placard, or electronic representation of a board or
placard, that accompanies each deal of instant bingo or electronic instant
bingo tickets and that includes the following information for the game:
      (1)   The name of the game;
      (2)   The manufacturer’s name or distinctive logo;
      (3)   The form number;
      (4)   The ticket count;
      (5)   The prize structure, including the number of winning tickets by
denomination and the respective winning symbol or number combinations for the
winning tickets;
      (6)   The cost per play;
      (7)   The serial number of the game.
   GAME OF CHANCE. Poker, craps, roulette, or other game in which a player
gives anything of value in the hope of gain, the outcome of which is determined
largely by chance, but does not include bingo.
   GAME OF CHANCE CONDUCTED FOR PROFIT. Any game of chance designed to produce
income for the person who conducts or operates the game of chance, but does not
include bingo.
   GROSS ANNUAL REVENUES. The annual gross receipts derived from the conduct of
bingo described in division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in this section
plus the annual net profit derived from the conduct of bingo described in
division (2) of the definition of “bingo” in this section.
   GROSS PROFIT. Gross receipts minus the amount actually expended for the
payment of prize awards.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. All money or assets, including admission fees, that a person
receives from bingo without the deduction of any amounts for prizes paid out or
for the expenses of conducting bingo. The term does not include any money
directly taken in from the sale of food or beverages by a charitable
organization conducting bingo, or by a bona fide auxiliary unit or society of a
charitable organization conducting bingo, provided all of the following apply:
      (1)   The auxiliary unit or society has been in existence as a bona fide
auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization for at least two years
prior to conducting bingo.
      (2)   The person who purchases the food or beverage receives nothing of
value except the food or beverage and items customarily received with the
purchase of that food or beverage.
      (3)   The food and beverages are sold at customary and reasonable prices.
   HISTORIC RAILROAD. All or a portion of the tracks and right-of-way of a
railroad that was owned and operated by a for profit common carrier in this
state at any time prior to January 1, 1950.
   INSTANT BINGO. A form of bingo that shall use folded or banded tickets or
paper cards with perforated break-open tabs, a face of which is covered or
otherwise hidden from view to conceal a number, letter, or symbol, or set of
numbers, letters, or symbols, some of which have been designated in advance as
prize winners, and may also include games in which some winners are determined
by the random selection of one or more bingo numbers by the use of a seal card
or bingo blower. “Instant bingo” also includes a punch board game. In all
“instant bingo” the prize amount and structure shall be predetermined. The term
does not include electronic instant bingo or any device that is activated by
the insertion of a coin, currency, token, or an equivalent, and that contains
as one of its components a video display monitor that is capable of displaying
numbers, letters, symbols, or characters in winning or losing combinations.
   INSTANT BINGO TICKET DISPENSER. A mechanical device that dispenses an
instant bingo ticket or card as the sole item of value dispensed and that has
the following characteristics:
      (1)   It is activated upon the insertion of United States currency.
      (2)   It performs no gaming functions.
      (3)   It does not contain a video display monitor or generate noise.
      (4)   It is not capable of displaying any numbers, letters, symbols, or
characters in winning or losing combinations.
      (5)   It does not simulate or display rolling or spinning reels.
      (6)   It is incapable of determining whether a dispensed bingo ticket or
card is a winning or non-winning ticket or card and requires a winning ticket
or card to be paid by a bingo game operator.
      (7)   It may provide accounting and security features to aid in
accounting for the instant bingo tickets or cards it dispenses.
      (8)   It is not part of an electronic network and is not interactive.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE (IRC). The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 100 Stat.
2085, 26 U.S.C. §§ 1 et seq., as now or hereafter amended.
   MANUFACTURER. Any person who assembles completed bingo supplies from raw
materials, other items, or subparts or who modifies, converts, adds to, or
removes parts from bingo supplies to further their promotion or sale.
   MERCHANDISE PRIZE. Any item of value, but shall not include any of the
following:
      (1)   Cash, gift cards, or any equivalent thereof;
      (2)   Plays on games of chance, state lottery tickets, or bingo;
      (3)   Firearms, tobacco, or alcoholic beverages; or
      (4)   A redeemable voucher that is redeemable for any of the items listed
in division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   NET PROFIT. Gross profit minus expenses.
   NET PROFIT FROM THE PROCEEDS OF THE SALE OF INSTANT BINGO OR ELECTRONIC
INSTANT BINGO. Gross profit minus the ordinary, necessary, and reasonable
expense expended for the purchase of bingo supplies for the purpose of
conducting instant bingo or electronic instant bingo, and, in the case of
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conducted by a veteran’s, fraternal,
or sporting organization, minus the payment by that organization of real
property taxes and assessments levied on a premises on which instant bingo or
electronic instant bingo is conducted.
   PARTICIPANT. Any person who plays bingo.
   PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1.59 and includes any firm or any
other legal entity, however organized.
   POOL NOT CONDUCTED FOR PROFIT. A scheme in which a participant gives a
valuable consideration for a chance to win a prize and the total amount of
consideration wagered is distributed to a participant or participants.
   PUNCH BOARD. A form of instant bingo that uses a board containing a number
of holes or receptacles of uniform size in which are placed, mechanically and
randomly, serially numbered slips of paper that may be punched or drawn from
the hole or receptacle. A player may punch or draw the numbered slips of paper
from the holes or receptacles and obtain the prize established for the game if
the number drawn corresponds to a winning number or, if the punch board
includes the use of a seal card, a potential winning number.
   RAFFLE. A form of bingo in which the one or more prizes are won by one or
more persons who have purchased a raffle ticket. The one or more winners of the
raffle are determined by drawing a ticket stub or other detachable section from
a receptacle containing ticket stubs or detachable sections corresponding to
all tickets sold for the raffle. The term does not include the drawing of a
ticket stub or other detachable section of a ticket purchased to attend a
professional sporting event if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The ticket stub or other detachable section is used to select the
winner of a free prize given away at the professional sporting event; and
      (2)   The cost of the ticket is the same as the cost of a ticket to the
professional sporting event on days when no free prize is given away.
   REDEEMABLE VOUCHER. Any ticket, token, coupon, receipt, or other noncash
representation of value.
   RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION. Any church, body of communicants, or group that is
not organized or operated for profit and that gathers in common membership for
regular worship and religious observances.
   REVOKE. To void permanently all rights and privileges of the holder of a
license issued under R.C. § 2915.08, 2915.081, or 2915.082 or a charitable
gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   SCHEME OF CHANCE.
      (1)   A slot machine unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3772, lottery
unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3770, numbers game, pool conducted for
profit, or other scheme in which a participant gives a valuable consideration
for a chance to win a prize, but does not include bingo, a skill-based
amusement machine, or a pool not conducted for profit. “Scheme of chance”
includes the use of an electronic device to reveal the results of a game entry
if valuable consideration is paid, directly or indirectly, for a chance to win
a prize. Valuable consideration is deemed to be paid for a chance to win a
prize in the following instances:
         (a)   Less than 50% of the goods or services sold by a scheme of
chance operator in exchange for game entries are used or redeemed by
participants at any one location;
         (b)   Less than 50% of participants who purchase goods or services at
any one location do not accept, use, or redeem the goods or services sold or
purportedly sold;
         (c)   More than 50% of prizes at any one location are revealed to
participants through an electronic device simulating a game of chance or a
“casino game” as defined in R.C. § 3772.01;
         (d)   The good or service sold by a scheme of chance operator in
exchange for a game entry cannot be used or redeemed in the manner advertised;
         (e)   A participant pays more than fair market value for goods or
services offered by a scheme of chance operator in order to receive one or more
game entries;
         (f)   A participant may use the electronic device to purchase
additional game entries;
         (g)   A participant may purchase additional game entries by using
points or credits won as prizes while using the electronic device;
         (h)   A scheme of chance operator pays out in prize money more than
20% of the gross revenue received at one location; or
         (i)   A participant makes a purchase or exchange in order to obtain
any good or service that may be used to facilitate play on the electronic
device.
      (2)   As used in this division, “electronic device” means a mechanical,
video, digital, or electronic machine or device that is capable of displaying
information on a screen or other mechanism and that is owned, leased, or
otherwise possessed by any person conducting a scheme of chance, or by that
person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, or contractors. “Electronic
device” does not include an electronic instant bingo system.
   SEAL CARD. A form of instant bingo that uses instant bingo tickets in
conjunction with a board or placard that contains one or more seals that, when
removed or opened, reveal predesignated winning numbers, letters, or symbols.
   SECURITY PERSONNEL. Includes any person who either is a Sheriff, deputy
sheriff, Marshal, deputy marshal, township constable, or member of an organized
police department of a municipal corporation or has successfully completed a
peace officer’s training course pursuant to R.C. §§ 109.71 through 109.79 and
who is hired to provide security for the premises on which bingo is conducted.
   SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINE.
      (1)   (a)   A mechanical, video, digital, or electronic device that
rewards the player or players, if at all, only with merchandise prizes or with
redeemable vouchers redeemable only for merchandise prizes, provided that with
respect to rewards for playing the game all of the following apply:
            1.   The wholesale value of a merchandise prize awarded as a result
of the single play of a machine does not exceed $10;
            2.   Redeemable vouchers awarded for any single play of a machine
are not redeemable for a merchandise prize with a wholesale value of more than
$10;
            3.   Redeemable vouchers are not redeemable for a merchandise prize
that has a wholesale value of more than $10 times the fewest number of single
plays necessary to accrue the redeemable vouchers required to obtain that
prize; and
            4.   Any redeemable vouchers or merchandise prizes are distributed
at the site of the skill- based amusement machine at the time of play.
         (b)   A card for the purchase of gasoline is a redeemable voucher for
purposes of division (1) of this definition even if the skill-based amusement
machine for the play of which the card is awarded is located at a place where
gasoline may not be legally distributed to the public or the card is not
redeemable at the location of, or at the time of playing, the skill-based
amusement machine.
      (2)   A device shall not be considered a skill- based amusement machine
and shall be considered a slot machine if it pays cash or one or more of the
following apply:
         (a)   The ability of a player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the number or ratio of prior wins to prior losses of players playing the game;
         (b)   Any reward of redeemable vouchers is not based solely on the
player achieving the object of the game or the player’s score;
         (c)   The outcome of the game, or the value of the redeemable voucher
or merchandise prize awarded for winning the game, can be controlled by a
source other than any player playing the game;
         (d)   The success of any player is or may be determined by a chance
event that cannot be altered by player actions;
         (e)   The ability of any player to succeed at the game is determined
by game features not visible or known to the player;
         (f)   The ability of the player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the exercise of a skill that no reasonable player could exercise.
      (3)   All of the following apply to any machine that is operated as
described in division (1) of this definition:
         (a)   As used in this definition of “skill- based amusement machine”,
GAME and PLAY mean one event from the initial activation of the machine until
the results of play are determined without payment of additional consideration.
An individual utilizing a machine that involves a single game, play, contest,
competition, or tournament may be awarded redeemable vouchers or merchandise
prizes based on the results of play.
         (b)   Advance play for a single game, play, contest, competition, or
tournament participation may be purchased. The cost of the contest,
competition, or tournament participation may be greater than a single non-
contest, competition, or tournament play.
         (c)   To the extent that the machine is used in a contest,
competition, or tournament, that contest, competition, or tournament has a
defined starting and ending date and is open to participants in competition for
scoring and ranking results toward the awarding of redeemable vouchers or
merchandise prizes that are stated prior to the start of the contest,
competition, or tournament.
      (4)   For purposes of division (1) of this definition, the mere presence
of a device, such as a pin- setting, ball-releasing, or scoring mechanism, that
does not contribute to or affect the outcome of the play of the game does not
make the device a skill-based amusement machine.
   SLOT MACHINE.
      (1)   Either of the following:
         (a)   Any mechanical, electronic, video, or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player who gives the thing of value in the hope of gain;
         (b)   Any mechanical, electronic, video, or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player to conduct bingo or a scheme or game of chance.
      (2)   The term does not include a skill-based amusement machine, an
instant bingo ticket dispenser, or an electronic instant bingo system.
   SPORTING ORGANIZATION. A hunting, fishing, or trapping organization, other
than a college or high school fraternity or sorority, that is not organized for
profit, that is affiliated with a state or national sporting organization,
including but not limited to the League of Ohio Sportsmen, and that has been in
continuous existence in this state for a period of three years.
   SUSPEND. To interrupt temporarily all rights and privileges of the holder of
a license issued under R.C. § 2915.08, 2915.081, or 2915.082 or a charitable
gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   SWEEPSTAKES. Any game, contest, advertising scheme or plan, or other
promotion where consideration is not required for a person to enter to win or
become eligible to receive any prize, the determination of which is based upon
chance. “Sweepstakes” does not include bingo as authorized under R.C. Chapter
2915, pari-mutuel wagering as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3769, lotteries
conducted by the State Lottery Commission as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3770,
and casino gaming as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3772.
   SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE.
      (1)   A mechanical, video, digital, or electronic machine or device that
is owned, leased, or otherwise possessed by any person conducting a
sweepstakes, or by that person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, or
contractors, that is intended to be used by a sweepstakes participant, and that
is capable of displaying information on a screen or other mechanism. A device
is a sweepstakes terminal device if any of the following apply:
         (a)   The device uses a simulated game terminal as a representation of
the prizes associated with the results of the sweepstakes entries.
         (b)   The device utilizes software such that the simulated game
influences or determines the winning of or value of the prize.
         (c)   The device selects prizes from a predetermined finite pool of
entries.
         (d)   The device utilizes a mechanism that reveals the content of a
predetermined sweepstakes entry.
         (e)   The device predetermines the prize results and stores those
results for delivery at the time the sweepstakes entry results are revealed.
         (f)   The device utilizes software to create a game result.
         (g)   The device reveals the prize incrementally, even though the
device does not influence the awarding of the prize or the value of any prize
awarded.
         (h)   The device determines and associates the prize with an entry or
entries at the time the sweepstakes is entered.
      (2)   As used in this definition and in §
134.02:
         ENTER. The act by which a person becomes eligible to receive any prize
offered in a sweepstakes.
         ENTRY. One event from the initial activation of the sweepstakes
terminal device until all the sweepstakes prize results from that activation
are revealed.
         PRIZE. Any gift, award, gratuity, good, service, credit, reward, or
any other thing of value that may be transferred to a person, whether
possession of the prize is actually transferred, or placed on an account or
other record as evidence of the intent to transfer the prize.
         SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE FACILITY. Any location in this state where
a sweepstakes terminal device is provided to a sweepstakes participant, except
as provided in §
134.02(G) and R.C. § 2915.02(G).
   VETERAN’S ORGANIZATION. Any individual post or state headquarters of a
national veteran’s association or an auxiliary unit of any individual post of a
national veteran’s association, which post, state headquarters, or auxiliary
unit is incorporated as a nonprofit corporation and either has received a
letter from the state headquarters of the national veteran’s association
indicating that the individual post or auxiliary unit is in good standing with
the national veteran’s association or has received a letter from the national
veteran’s association indicating that the state headquarters is in good
standing with the national veteran’s association. As used in this definition,
NATIONAL VETERAN’S ASSOCIATION means any veteran’s association that has been in
continuous existence as such for a period of at least five years and either is
incorporated by an act of the United States Congress or has a national dues-
paying membership of at least 5,000 persons.
   VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER’S ORGANIZATION. Any organization of volunteer
firefighters, as defined in R.C. § 146.01, that is organized and operated
exclusively to provide financial support for a volunteer fire department or a
volunteer fire company and that is recognized or ratified by a county,
municipal corporation, or township.
   VOLUNTEER RESCUE SERVICE ORGANIZATION. Any organization of volunteers
organized to function as an emergency medical service organization, as defined
in R.C. § 4765.01.
   YOUTH ATHLETIC ORGANIZATION. Any organization, not organized for profit,
that is organized and operated exclusively to provide financial support to, or
to operate, athletic activities for persons who are 21 years of age or younger
by means of sponsoring, organizing, operating, or contributing to the support
of an athletic team, club, league, or association.
   YOUTH ATHLETIC PARK ORGANIZATION. Any organization, not organized for
profit, that satisfies both of the following:
      (1)   It owns, operates, and maintains playing fields that satisfy both
of the following:
         (a)   The playing fields are used for athletic activities by one or
more organizations, not organized for profit, each of which is organized and
operated exclusively to provide financial support to, or to operate, athletic
activities for persons who are 18 years of age or younger by means of
sponsoring, organizing, operating, or contributing to the support of an
athletic team, club, league, or association.
         (b)   The playing fields are not used for any profit-making activity
at any time during the year.
      (2)   It uses the proceeds of bingo it conducts exclusively for the
operation, maintenance, and improvement of its playing fields of the type
described in division (1) of this definition.
(R.C. § 2915.01) (Rev. 2022)
§ 134.02 PROHIBITIONS AGAINST GAMBLING; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Engage in bookmaking, or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates bookmaking.
      (2)   Establish, promote, or operate or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance.
      (3)   Knowingly procure, transmit, exchange, or engage in conduct that
facilitates the procurement, transmission, or exchange of information for use
in establishing odds or determining winners in connection with bookmaking or
with any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance.
      (4)   Engage in betting or in playing any scheme or game of chance as a
substantial source of income or livelihood.
      (5)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
and either:
         (a)   Give to another person any item described in R.C. § 2915.01(VV)
(1), (VV)(2), (VV)(3), or (VV)(4) as a prize for playing or participating in a
sweepstakes; or
         (b)   Give to another person any merchandise prize, or a redeemable
voucher for a merchandise prize, the wholesale value of which is in excess of
$10 and which is awarded as a single entry for playing or participating in a
sweepstakes. Redeemable vouchers shall not be redeemable for a merchandise
prize that has a wholesale value of more than $10.
      (6)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
without first obtaining a current annual “certificate of registration” from the
Attorney General as required by R.C. § 2915.02(F).
      (7)   With purpose to violate division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
(A)(5), or (A)(6) of this section, acquire, possess, control, or operate any
gambling device.
   (B)   For purposes of division (A)(1) of this section, a person facilitates
bookmaking if the person in any way knowingly aids an illegal bookmaking
operation, including, without limitation, placing a bet with a person engaged
in or facilitating illegal bookmaking. For purposes of division (A)(2) of this
section, a person facilitates a game of chance conducted for profit or a scheme
of chance if the person in any way knowingly aids in the conduct or operation
of any such game or scheme, including, without limitation, playing any such
game or scheme.
   (C)   This section does not prohibit conduct in connection with gambling
expressly permitted by law.
   (D)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Games of chance, if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The games of chance are not craps for money or roulette for
money.
         (b)   The games of chance are conducted by a charitable organization
that is and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a determination
letter that is currently in effect, stating that the organization is exempt
from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)
(3).
         (c)   The games of chance are conducted at festivals of the charitable
organization that are conducted not more than a total of five days a calendar
year, and are conducted on premises owned by the charitable organization for a
period of no less than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the
games of chance, on premises leased from a governmental unit, or on premises
that are leased from a veteran’s or fraternal organization and that have been
owned by the lessor veteran’s or fraternal organization for a period of no less
than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the games of chance. A
charitable organization shall not lease premises from a veteran’s or fraternal
organization to conduct a festival described in this division, if the veteran’s
or fraternal organization already has leased the premises 12 times during the
preceding year to charitable organizations for that purpose. If a charitable
organization leases premises from a veteran’s or fraternal organization to
conduct a festival described in this division, the charitable organization
shall not pay a rental rate for the premises per day of the festival that
exceeds the rental rate per bingo session that a charitable organization may
pay under R.C. § 2915.09(B)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance when it leases premises from another charitable organization to
conduct bingo games.
         (d)   All of the money or assets received from the games of chance
after deduction only of prizes paid out during the conduct of the games of
chance are used by, given, donated or otherwise transferred to any organization
that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that is tax exempt under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c)(3).
         (e)   The games of chance are not conducted during or within ten hours
of a bingo game conducted for amusement purposes only pursuant to R.C. §
2915.12 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance. No person shall
receive any commission, wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity, or other
form of compensation, directly or indirectly, for operating or assisting in the
operation of any game of chance.
      (2)   Any tag fishing tournament, as defined in R.C. § 1531.01, operated
under a permit issued under R.C. § 1533.92.
      (3)   Bingo conducted by a charitable organization that holds a license
issued under R.C. § 2915.08.
   (E)   Division (D) of this section shall not be construed to authorize the
sale, lease, or other temporary or permanent transfer of the right to conduct
games of chance, as granted by that division, by any charitable organization
that is granted that right.
   (F)   Any person desiring to conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a
sweepstakes with the use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes
terminal device facility shall first register with the Office of the Attorney
General and obtain an annual certificate of registration by providing a filing
fee of $200 and all information as required by rule adopted under R.C. §
2915.02(H). Not later than the tenth day of each month, each sweepstakes
terminal device operator shall file a sweepstakes terminal device monthly
report with the Attorney General and provide a filing fee of $50 and all
information required by rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.02(H). All information
provided to the Attorney General under this division shall be available to law
enforcement upon request.
   (G)   (1)   A person may apply to the Attorney General, on a form prescribed
by the Attorney General, for a certificate of compliance that the person is not
operating a sweepstakes terminal device facility. The form shall require the
person to include the address of the business location where sweepstakes
terminal devices will be used and to make the following certifications:
         (a)   That the person will not use more than two sweepstakes terminal
devices at the business location;
         (b)   That the retail value of sweepstakes prizes to be awarded at the
business location using sweepstakes terminal devices during a reporting period
will be less than 3% of the gross revenue received at the business location
during the reporting period;
         (c)   That no other form of gaming except lottery ticket sales as
authorized under R.C. Chapter 3770 will be conducted at the business location
or in an adjoining area of the business location;
         (d)   That any sweepstakes terminal device at the business location
will not allow any deposit of any money, coin, or token, or the use of any
credit card, debit card, prepaid card, or any other method of similar payment
to be used, directly or indirectly, to participate in a sweepstakes;
         (e)   That notification of any prize will not take place on the same
day as a participant’s sweepstakes entry; and
         (f)   That the person consents to provide any other information to the
Attorney General as required by rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.02(H).
      (2)   The filing fee for a certificate of compliance is $250. The
Attorney General may charge up to an additional $250 for reasonable expenses
resulting from any investigation related to an application for a certificate of
compliance.
      (3)   A certificate of compliance is effective for one year. The
certificate holder may reapply for a certificate of compliance. A person issued
a certificate of compliance shall file semiannual reports with the Attorney
General stating the number of sweepstakes terminal devices at the business
location and that the retail value of prizes awarded at the business location
using sweepstakes terminal devices is less than 3% of the gross revenue
received at the business location.
   (H)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of gambling, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling
offense, gambling is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
Notwithstanding this division, failing to file a sweepstakes terminal device
monthly report as required by division (F) of this section or the semiannual
report required by division (G) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2915.02(A) - (G), (K)) (Rev. 2014)
§ 134.03 OPERATING A GAMBLING HOUSE.
   (A)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control, or
supervision of premises, shall:
      (1)   Use or occupy the premises for gambling in violation of R.C. §
2915.02 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   Recklessly permit the premises to be used or occupied for gambling
in violation of R.C. § 2915.02 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of operating a
gambling house, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of a gambling offense, operating a gambling house is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   Premises used or occupied in violation of this section constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement under R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2915.03) (Rev. 2003)
§ 134.04 PUBLIC GAMING.
   (A)   No person, while at a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall,
or other place of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort shall
make a bet or play any game of chance or scheme of chance.
   (B)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control, or
supervision of a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall, or other place
of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort shall recklessly permit
those premises to be used or occupied in violation of division (A) of this
section.
   (C)   Divisions (A) and (B) of this section do not prohibit conduct in
connection with gambling expressly permitted by law.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public gaming. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, public gaming is a minor misdemeanor. If
the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling offense, public
gaming is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (E)   Premises used or occupied in violation of division (B) of this section
constitute a nuisance subject to abatement under R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2915.04) (Rev. 2003)
§ 134.05 CHEATING.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome
of any of the following:
      (1)   The subject of a bet.
      (2)   A contest of knowledge, skill, or endurance that is not an athletic
or sporting event.
      (3)   A scheme or game of chance.
      (4)   Bingo.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Offer, give, solicit, or accept anything of value to corrupt the
outcome of an athletic or sporting event.
      (2)   Engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome of an athletic or
sporting event.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
cheating. Except as otherwise provided in this division, cheating is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the potential gain from the cheating is
$1,000 or more or if the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling
offense or of any theft offense as defined in R.C. § 2913.01, cheating is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
corrupting sports. Corrupting sports is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.05) (Rev. 2012)
§ 134.06 REGULATIONS CONCERNING OPERATION OF LICENSED BINGO GAME.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo shall fail to do any of
the following:
      (1)   Own all of the equipment used to conduct bingo or lease that
equipment from a charitable organization that is licensed to conduct bingo, or
from the landlord of a premises where bingo is conducted, for a rental rate
that is not more than is customary and reasonable for that equipment;
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(3) of this section,
use all of the gross receipts from bingo for paying prizes, for reimbursement
of expenses for or for renting premises in which to conduct bingo, for
reimbursement of expenses for or for purchasing or leasing bingo supplies used
in conducting bingo, for reimbursement of expenses for or for hiring security
personnel, for reimbursement of expenses for or for advertising bingo, or for
reimbursement of other expenses or for other expenses listed in the definition
for “expenses” in R.C. § 2915.01, provided that the amount of the receipts so
spent is not more than is customary and reasonable for a similar purchase,
lease, hiring, advertising, or expense. If the building in which bingo is
conducted is owned by the charitable organization conducting bingo and the
bingo conducted includes a form of bingo described in division (1) of the
definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01, the charitable organization may deduct
from the total amount of the gross receipts from each session a sum equal to
the lesser of $600 or 45% of the gross receipts from the bingo described in
that division as consideration for the use of the premises;
      (3)   Use, or give, donate, or otherwise transfer, all of the net profit
derived from bingo described in R.C. § 2915.01(O)(1) for a charitable purpose
listed in its license application and described in R.C. § 2915.01(V), or
distribute all of the net profit from the proceeds of the sale of instant bingo
or electronic instant bingo as stated in its license application and in
accordance with R.C. § 2915.101, as applicable.
   (B)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall fail to do
any of the following:
      (1)   Conduct the bingo game on premises that are owned by the charitable
organization, on premises that are owned by another charitable organization and
leased from that charitable organization for a rental rate not in excess of the
lesser of $650 per bingo session or 45% of the gross receipts of the bingo
session, on premises that are leased from a person other than a charitable
organization for a rental rate that is not more than is customary and
reasonable for premises that are similar in location, size, and quality but not
in excess of $450 per bingo session, or on premises that are owned by a person
other than a charitable organization, that are leased from that person by
another charitable organization, and that are subleased from that other
charitable organization by the charitable organization for a rental rate not in
excess of $450 per bingo session. No charitable organization is required to pay
property taxes or assessments on premises that the charitable organization
leases from another person to conduct bingo sessions. If the charitable
organization leases from a person other than a charitable organization the
premises on which it conducts bingo sessions, the lessor of the premises shall
provide only the premises to the organization and shall not provide the
organization with bingo game operators, security personnel, concessions or
concession operators, bingo supplies, or any other type of service. A
charitable organization shall not lease or sublease premises that it owns or
leases to more than three other charitable organizations per calendar week for
conducting bingo sessions on the premises. A person that is not a charitable
organization shall not lease premises that it owns, leases, or otherwise is
empowered to lease to more than three charitable organizations per calendar
week for conducting bingo sessions on the premises. In no case shall more than
nine bingo sessions be conducted on any premises in any calendar week;
      (2)   Display its license conspicuously at the premises where the bingo
session is conducted;
      (3)   Conduct the bingo session in accordance with division (1) of the
definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01.
   (C)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for operating a bingo
session that is conducted by the charitable organization or for preparing,
selling, or serving food or beverages at the site of the bingo session, permit
any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to pay
compensation to any bingo game operator who prepares, sells, or serves food or
beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable organization, or
permit any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to prepare,
sell, or serve food or beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable
organization, if the auxiliary unit or society pays any compensation to the
bingo game operators who prepare, sell, or serve the food or beverages;
      (2)   Pay consulting fees to any person for any services performed in
relation to the bingo session;
      (3)   Pay concession fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in the bingo session;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(4) of this section,
conduct more than three bingo sessions in any seven-day period. A volunteer
firefighter’s organization or a volunteer rescue service organization that
conducts not more than five bingo sessions in a calendar year may conduct more
than three bingo sessions in a seven- day period after notifying the Attorney
General when it will conduct the sessions;
      (5)   Pay out more than $6,000 in prizes for bingo games described in
R.C. § 2915.01(S)(1) during any bingo session that is conducted by the
charitable organization. “Prizes” does not include awards from the conduct of
instant bingo.
      (6)   Conduct a bingo session at any time during the eight-hour period
between 2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m., at any time during, or within ten hours of, a
bingo game conducted for amusement only pursuant to R.C. § 2915.12 or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, at any premises not specified on
its license, or on any day of the week or during any time period not specified
on its license. This division does not prohibit the sale of instant bingo
tickets beginning at 9:00 a.m. for a bingo session that begins at 10:00 a.m. If
circumstances make it impractical for the charitable organization to conduct a
bingo session at the premises, or on the day of the week or at the time
specified on its license or if a charitable organization wants to conduct bingo
sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than the day or time specified
on its license, the charitable organization may apply in writing to the
Attorney General for an amended license pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08(J). A
charitable organization may apply twice in each calendar year for an amended
license to conduct bingo sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than
the day or time specified on its license. If the amended license is granted,
the organization may conduct bingo sessions at the premises, on the day of the
week, and at the time specified on its amended license;
      (7)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, is under the age of 18 to work as a bingo game operator;
      (8)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any
jurisdiction to be a bingo game operator;
      (9)   Permit the lessor of the premises on which the bingo session is
conducted, if the lessor is not a charitable organization, to provide the
charitable organization with bingo game operators, security personnel,
concessions, bingo supplies, or any other type of service;
      (10)   Purchase or lease bingo supplies from any person except a
distributor issued a license under R.C. § 2915.081;
      (11)   (a)   Use or permit the use of electronic bingo aids except under
the following circumstances:
            1.   For any single participant, not more than 90 bingo faces can
be played using an electronic bingo aid or aids.
            2.   The charitable organization shall provide a participant using
an electronic bingo aid with corresponding paper bingo cards or sheets.
            3.   The total price of bingo faces played with an electronic bingo
aid shall be equal to the total price of the same number of bingo faces played
with a paper bingo card or sheet sold at the same bingo session but without an
electronic bingo aid.
            4.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be part of an electronic
network other than a network that includes only bingo aids and devices that are
located on the premises at which the bingo is being conducted or be interactive
with any device not located on the premises at which the bingo is being
conducted.
            5.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to participate in bingo
that is conducted at a location other than the location at which the bingo
session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
            6.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to provide for the
input of numbers and letters announced by a bingo caller other than the bingo
caller who physically calls the numbers and letters at the location at which
the bingo session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
         (b)   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 119 that govern the use of electronic bingo aids. The rules may include
a requirement that an electronic bingo aid be capable of being audited by the
Attorney General to verify the number of bingo cards or sheets played during
each bingo session.
      (12)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, to be under 18 years of age to play bingo described in division (1)
of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01.
   (D)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section,
no charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator, and no bingo
game operator shall receive or accept, any commission, wage, salary, reward,
tip, donation, gratuity, or other form of compensation, directly or indirectly,
regardless of the source, for conducting bingo or providing other work or labor
at the site of bingo during a bingo session.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section, no
charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator any commission,
wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity, or other form of compensation,
directly or indirectly regardless of the source, for conducting instant bingo,
electronic instant bingo, or both other than at a bingo session at the site of
instant bingo, electronic instant bingo, or both other than at a bingo session.
      (3)   Nothing in this division (D) of this section prohibits an employee
of a fraternal organization, veteran’s organization, or sporting organization
from selling instant bingo tickets or cards to the organization’s members or
invited guests, as long as no portion of the employee’s compensation is paid
from any receipts of bingo.
   (E)   Notwithstanding division (B)(1) of this section, a charitable
organization that, prior to December 6, 1977, has entered into written
agreements for the lease of premises it owns to another charitable organization
or other charitable organizations for the conducting of bingo sessions so that
more than two bingo sessions are conducted per calendar week on the premises,
and a person that is not a charitable organization and that, prior to December
6, 1977, has entered into written agreements for the lease of premises it owns
to charitable organizations for the conducting of more than two bingo sessions
per calendar week on the premises, may continue to lease the premises to those
charitable organizations, provided that no more than four sessions are
conducted per calendar week, that the lessor organization or person has
notified the Attorney General in writing of the organizations that will conduct
the sessions and the days of the week and the times of the day on which the
sessions will be conducted, that the initial lease entered into with each
organization that will conduct the sessions was filed with the Attorney General
prior to December 6, 1977, and that each organization that will conduct the
sessions was issued a license to conduct bingo games by the Attorney General
prior to December 6, 1977.
   (F)   This section does not prohibit a bingo licensed charitable
organization or a game operator from giving any person an instant bingo ticket
as a prize.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of
illegally conducting a bingo game, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11), or (D)
of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously
has been convicted of a violation of division (A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2),
(B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11), or (D) of this section, a violation of division
(A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11), or (D) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Whoever violates division (C)(12)
of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (C)(12) of this
section, a violation of division (C)(12) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.09) (Rev. 2022)
§ 134.07 RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo or a game of chance
pursuant to R.C. § 2915.02(D), or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, shall fail to maintain the following records for at least three
years from the date on which the bingo or game of chance is conducted:
      (1)   An itemized list of the gross receipts of each bingo session, each
game of instant bingo by serial number, each electronic instant bingo game by
serial number, each raffle, each punch board game, and each game of chance, and
an itemized list of the gross profits of each game of instant bingo by serial
number and each electronic instant bingo game by serial number;
      (2)   An itemized list of all expenses, other than prizes, that are
incurred in conducting bingo, the name of each person to whom the expenses are
paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses;
      (3)   A list of all prizes awarded during each bingo session, each
raffle, each punch board game, and each game of chance conducted by the
charitable organization, the total prizes awarded from each game of instant
bingo by serial number and each electronic instant bingo game by serial number,
and the name, address, and social security number of all persons who are
winners of prizes of $600 or more in value;
      (4)   An itemized list of the recipients of the net profit of bingo or
game of chance, including the name and address of each recipient to whom the
money is distributed, and if the organization uses the net profit of bingo, or
the money or assets received from a game of chance, for any charitable or other
purpose set forth in R.C. § 2915.01(V), R.C. § 2915.02(D), or R.C. § 2915.101,
a list of each purpose and an itemized list of each expenditure for each
purpose;
      (5)   The number of persons who participate in any bingo session or game
of chance that is conducted by the charitable organization;
      (6)   A list of receipts from the sale of food and beverages by the
charitable organization or one of its auxiliary units or societies, if the
receipts were excluded from “gross receipts” under R.C. § 2915.01(T);
      (7)   An itemized list of all expenses incurred at each bingo session,
each raffle, each punch board game, or each game of instant bingo or electronic
instant bingo conducted by the charitable organization in the sale of food and
beverages by the charitable organization or by an auxiliary unit or society of
the charitable organization, the name of each person to whom the expenses are
paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses.
   (B)   A charitable organization shall keep the records that it is required
to maintain pursuant to division (A) of this section at its principal place of
business in this state or at its headquarters in this state and shall notify
the Attorney General of the location at which those records are kept.
   (C)   The gross profit from each bingo session or game described in division
(1) or (2) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall be deposited
into a checking account devoted exclusively to the bingo session or game.
Payments for allowable expenses incurred in conducting the bingo session or
game and payments to recipients of some or all of the net profit of the bingo
session or game shall be made only by checks or electronic fund transfers drawn
on the bingo session or game account.
   (D)   Each charitable organization shall conduct and record an inventory of
all of its bingo supplies as of the first day of November of each year.
   (E)   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with R.C. Chapter
119 that establish standards of accounting, record keeping, and reporting to
ensure that gross receipts from bingo or games of chance are properly accounted
for.
   (F)   A distributor shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing to another person bingo supplies for use in this state.
The record shall include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name of the manufacturer from which the distributor purchased
the bingo supplies and the date of the purchase;
      (2)   The name and address of the charitable organization or other
distributor to which the bingo supplies were sold or otherwise provided;
      (3)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies;
      (4)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each charitable organization.
   (G)   A manufacturer shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing bingo supplies for use in this state. The record shall
include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name and address of the distributor to whom the bingo supplies
were sold or otherwise provided;
      (2)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies, including
serial numbers;
      (3)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each distributor.
   (H)   (1)   The Attorney General or any law enforcement agency may do all of
the following:
         (a)   Investigate any charitable organization, distributor, or
manufacturer or any officer, agent, trustee, member, or employee of the
organization, distributor, or manufacturer;
         (b)   Examine the accounts and records of the charitable organization,
distributor, or manufacturer or of any officer, agent, trustee, member, or
employee of the organization, distributor, or manufacturer;
         (c)   Conduct inspections, audits, and observations of bingo or games
of chance;
         (d)   Conduct inspections of the premises where bingo or games of
chance are conducted or where bingo supplies are manufactured or distributed;
         (e)   Take any other necessary and reasonable action to determine if a
violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 has occurred
and to determine whether R.C. § 2915.11, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, has been complied with.
      (2)   If any law enforcement agency has reasonable grounds to believe
that a charitable organization, distributor, or manufacturer or an officer,
agent, trustee, member, or employee of the organization, distributor, or
manufacturer has violated any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915,
the law enforcement agency may proceed by action in the proper court to enforce
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915, provided that the law enforcement agency
shall give written notice to the Attorney General when commencing an action as
described in this division.
   (I)   No person shall destroy, alter, conceal, withhold, or deny access to
any accounts or records of a charitable organization, distributor, or
manufacturer that have been requested for examination, or obstruct, impede, or
interfere with any inspection, audit, or observation of bingo or a game of
chance, of premises where bingo or a game of chance is conducted, or of
premises where bingo supplies are manufactured or distributed, or refuse to
comply with any reasonable request of, or obstruct, impede, or interfere with
any other reasonable action undertaken by, the Attorney General or a law
enforcement agency pursuant to division (H) of this section.
   (J)   Whoever violates division (A) or (I) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2915.10) (Rev. 2022)
§ 134.08 REQUIREMENTS FOR BINGO GAME OPERATORS.
   (A)   No person shall be a bingo game operator unless the person is 18 years
of age or older.
   (B)   No person who has been convicted of a felony or a gambling offense in
any jurisdiction shall be a bingo game operator.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. Whoever violates division (B) of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2915.11) (Rev. 2003)
§ 134.09 BINGO GAMES FOR AMUSEMENT ONLY.
   (A)   Sections 134.06 through 134.13 and 134.15 do not apply to bingo games
that are conducted for the purpose of amusement only. A bingo game is conducted
for the purpose of amusement only if it complies with all of the requirements
specified in either division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section.
      (1)   (a)   The participants do not pay any money or any other thing of
value, including an admission fee or any fee, for bingo cards or sheets,
objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in playing bingo, for the
privilege of participating in the bingo game, or to defray any costs of the
game, or pay tips or make donations during or immediately before or after the
bingo game.
         (b)   All prizes awarded during the course of the game are non-
monetary, and in the form of merchandise, goods, or entitlement to goods or
services only, and the total value of all prizes awarded during the game is
less than $100.
         (c)   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity,
or other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         (d)   The bingo game is not conducted either during or within ten
hours of any of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to R.C. §§ 2915.07 through 2915.11 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
            2.   A scheme or game of chance, or bingo described in R.C. §
2915.01(O)(2).
         (e)   The number of players participating in the bingo game does not
exceed 50.
      (2)   (a)   The participants do not pay money or any other thing of value
as an admission fee, and no participant is charged more than $0.25 to purchase
a bingo card or sheet, objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in
playing bingo.
         (b)   The total amount of money paid by all of the participants for
bingo cards or sheets, objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in
playing bingo does not exceed $100.
         (c)   All of the money paid for bingo cards or sheets, objects to
cover spaces, or other devices used in playing bingo is used only to pay
winners monetary and nonmonetary prizes and to provide refreshments.
         (d)   The total value of all prizes awarded during the game does not
exceed $100.
         (e)   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity,
or other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         (f)   The bingo game is not conducted during or within ten hours of
either of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to R.C. §§ 2915.07 through 2915.15 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance;
            2.   A scheme of chance or a game of chance, or bingo described in
R.C. § 2915.01(O)(2).
         (g)   All of the participants reside at the premises where the bingo
game is conducted.
         (h)   The bingo games are conducted on different days of the week and
not more than twice in a calendar week.
   (B)   The Attorney General or any local law enforcement agency may
investigate the conduct of a bingo game that purportedly is conducted for
purposes of amusement only if there is reason to believe that the purported
amusement bingo game does not comply with the requirements of either division
(A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section. A local law enforcement agency may proceed by
action in the proper court to enforce this section if the local law enforcement
agency gives written notice to the Attorney General when commencing the action.
(R.C. § 2915.12) (Rev. 2022)
§ 134.10 PROHIBITIONS WHERE INSTANT BINGO GAME IS CONDUCTED.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts instant bingo shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 2915.09(A)(1), (A)
(2), and (A)(3), or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   Conduct instant bingo unless either of the following applies:
         (a)   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a), is
described in IRC § 501(c)(3), is a charitable organization as defined in R.C. §
2915.01, is in good standing in the state pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08, and is in
compliance with R.C. Chapter 1716;
         (b)   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a), is
described in IRC § 501(c)(7), (c)(8), (c)(10), or (c)(19) or is a veteran’s
organization described in IRC § 501(c)(4), and conducts instant bingo under
R.C. § 2915.13.
      (3)   Conduct instant bingo on any day, at any time, or at any premises
not specified on the organization’s license issued pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08;
      (4)   Permit any person whom the organization knows or should have known
has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction to be a
bingo game operator in the conduct of instant bingo;
      (5)   Purchase or lease supplies used to conduct instant bingo or punch
board games from any person except a distributor licensed under R.C. §
2915.081;
      (6)   Sell or provide any instant bingo ticket or card for a price
different from the price printed on it by the manufacturer on either the
instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare;
      (7)   Sell an instant bingo ticket or card to a person under 18 years of
age;
      (8)   Fail to keep unsold instant bingo tickets or cards for less than
three years;
      (9)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting
instant bingo that is conducted by the organization or for preparing, selling,
or serving food or beverages at the site of the instant bingo game, permit any
auxiliary unit or society of the organization to pay compensation to any bingo
game operator who prepares, sells, or serves food or beverages at an instant
bingo game conducted by the organization, or permit any auxiliary unit or
society of the organization to prepare, sell, or serve food or beverages at an
instant bingo game conducted by the organization, if the auxiliary unit or
society pays any compensation to the bingo game operators who prepare, sell, or
serve the food or beverages;
      (10)   Pay fees to any person for any services performed in relation to
an instant bingo game, except as provided in R.C. § 2915.093(D);
      (11)   Pay fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in an instant bingo game;
      (12)   (a)   Allow instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold to bingo
game operators at a premises at which the organization sells instant bingo
tickets or cards or to be sold to employees of a D permit holder who are
working at a premises at which instant bingo tickets or cards are sold;
         (b)   Division (A)(12)(a) of this section does not prohibit a licensed
charitable organization or a bingo game operator from giving any person an
instant bingo ticket as a prize in place of a cash prize won by a participant
in an instant bingo game. In no case shall an instant bingo ticket or card be
sold or provided for a price different from the price printed on it by the
manufacturer on either the instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare.
      (13)   Fail to display its bingo license, and the serial numbers of the
deal of instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold, conspicuously at each
premises at which it sells instant bingo tickets or cards;
      (14)   Possess a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards that was not
purchased from a distributor licensed under R.C. § 2915.081 as reflected on an
invoice issued by the distributor that contains all of the information required
by R.C. § 2915.10(E);
      (15)   Fail, once it opens a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards, to
continue to sell the tickets or cards in that deal until the tickets or cards
with the top two highest tiers of prizes in that deal are sold;
      (16)   Possess bingo supplies that were not obtained in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (B)   A charitable organization may purchase, lease, or use instant bingo
ticket dispensers to sell instant bingo tickets or cards.
   (C)   Pursuant to R.C. § 2915.091(C), the Attorney General may adopt rules
in accordance with R.C. Chapter 119 that govern the conduct of instant bingo by
charitable organizations.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section or a rule adopted under
division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, illegal instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (A) of this section or of such a rule adopted under
division (C) of this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.091) (Rev. 2013)
§ 134.11 RAFFLE DRAWINGS.
   (A)   (1)   Subject to division (A)(2) of this section, a person or entity
that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and is described
in IRC §§ 501(c)(3), 501(c)(4), 501(c)(6), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10), or
501(c)(19) may conduct a raffle to raise money for the person or entity and
does not need a license to conduct bingo in order to conduct a raffle drawing
that is not for profit.
      (2)   If a person or entity that is described in division (A)(1) of this
section, but that is not also described in IRC § 501(c)(3), conducts a raffle,
the person or entity shall distribute at least 50% of the net profit from the
raffle to a charitable purpose described in R.C. § 2915.01(V) or to a
department or agency of the federal government, the state, or any political
subdivision.
   (B)   A chamber of commerce may conduct not more than one raffle per year to
raise money for the chamber of commerce.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (A) or (B) of this section, no person
shall conduct a raffle drawing that is for profit or a raffle drawing that is
not for profit.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal
conduct of a raffle. Except as otherwise provided in this division, illegal
conduct of a raffle is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (C) of this section,
illegal conduct of a raffle is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2915.092) (Rev. 2022)
§ 134.12 INSTANT BINGO OTHER THAN AT BINGO SESSIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, RETAIL INCOME FROM ALL COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY
means the income that a person receives from the provision of goods, services,
or activities that are provided at the location where instant bingo other than
at a bingo session is conducted, including the sale of instant bingo tickets. A
religious organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §
501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3), at not more than one location at which
it conducts its charitable programs, may include donations from its members and
guests as retail income.
   (B)   (1)   If a charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant
bingo other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued under R.C.
§ 2915.08, the charitable instant bingo organization shall enter into a written
contract with the owner or lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is
conducted to allow the owner or lessor to assist in the conduct of instant
bingo other than at a bingo session, identify each location where the instant
bingo other than at a bingo session is being conducted, and identify the owner
or lessor of each location.
      (2)   A charitable instant bingo organization that conducts instant bingo
other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued under R.C. §
2915.08 is not required to enter into a written contract with the owner or
lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is conducted provided that
the owner or lessor is not assisting in the conduct of the instant bingo other
than at a bingo session and provided that the conduct of the instant bingo
other than at a bingo session at that location is not more than five days per
calendar year and not more than ten hours per day.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (F) of this section, no charitable
instant bingo organization shall conduct instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at a location where the primary source of retail income from all
commercial activity at that location is the sale of instant bingo tickets.
   (D)   (1)   The owner or lessor of a location that enters into a contract
pursuant to division (B) of this section shall pay the full gross profit to the
charitable instant bingo organization, in return for the deal of instant bingo
tickets. The owner or lessor may retain the money that the owner or lessor
receives for selling the instant bingo tickets, provided, however, that after
the deal has been sold, the owner or lessor shall pay to the charitable instant
bingo organization the value of any unredeemed instant bingo prizes remaining
in the deal of instant bingo tickets.
      (2)   The charitable instant bingo organization shall pay 6% of the total
gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets for the purpose of
reimbursing the owner or lessor for expenses described in this division.
      (3)   As used in this division, EXPENSES means those items provided for
in R.C. § 2915.01(GG)(4), (GG)(5), (GG)(6), (GG)(7), (GG)(8), (GG)(12), and
(GG)(13) and that percentage of the owner’s or lessor’s rent for the location
where instant bingo is conducted. Expenses, in the aggregate, shall not exceed
6% of the total gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets.
      (4)   As used in this division, FULL GROSS PROFIT means the amount by
which the total receipts of all instant bingo tickets, if the deal has been
sold in full, exceeds the amount that would be paid out if all prizes were
redeemed.
   (E)   A charitable instant bingo organization shall provide the Attorney
General with all of the following information:
      (1)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has terminated a
contract entered into pursuant to division (B) of this section with an owner or
lessor of a location;
      (2)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has entered into a
written contract pursuant to division (B) of this section with a new owner or
lessor of a location;
      (3)   That the charitable instant bingo organization is aware of conduct
by the owner or lessor of a location at which instant bingo is conducted that
is in violation of R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (F)   Division (C) of this section does not apply to a volunteer
firefighter’s organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under
IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3), that conducts instant bingo
other than at a bingo session on the premises where the organization conducts
firefighter training, that has conducted instant bingo continuously for at
least five years prior to July 1, 2003, and that, during each of those five
years, had gross receipts of at least $1,500,000.
(R.C. § 2915.093) (Rev. 2022)
   (G)   (1)   Subject to the requirements of R.C. §§ 2915.14 and 2915.15
concerning electronic instant bingo, a veteran’s organization, a fraternal
organization, or a sporting organization authorized to conduct a bingo session
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2915 may conduct instant bingo, electronic instant
bingo, or both other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued
under R.C. § 2915.08 if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to 12
hours during any day, provided that the sale does not begin earlier than 10:00
a.m. and ends not later than 2:00 a.m.
         (b)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to
its own premises and to its own members and invited guests.
         (c)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization is raising money for an organization that is described in IRC §
509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an
organization that maintains its principal place of business in this state, that
is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC
§ 501(c)(3), and that is in good standing in this state and executes a written
contract with that organization as required in division (G)(2) of this section.
      (2)   If a veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization authorized to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant bingo
pursuant to division (G)(1) of this section is raising money for another
organization that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is
either a governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal
place of business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c), and that is in good standing
in this state, the veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization shall execute a written contract with the organization that is
described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a governmental
unit or an organization that maintains its principal place of business in this
state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c), and that is in good standing in this state in order
to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant bingo. That contract shall
include a statement of the percentage of the net proceeds that the veteran’s,
fraternal, or sporting organization will be distributing to the organization
that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal place of
business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §
501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3), and that is in good standing in this
state.
      (3)   (a)   If a veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or
sporting organization authorized to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant
bingo pursuant to division (G)(1) of this section has been issued a liquor
permit under R.C. Chapter 4303, that permit may be subject to suspension,
revocation, or cancellation if the veteran’s organization, fraternal
organization, or sporting organization violates a provision of this chapter or
R.C. Chapter 2915.
         (b)   No veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that enters into a written contract pursuant to division (G)(2) of
this section shall violate any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915,
or permit, aid, or abet any other person in violating any provision of this
chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
      (4)   A veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization shall give all required proceeds earned from the conduct of
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to the organization with which the
veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting organization has
entered into a written contract.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (G) of this section is guilty of illegal
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided
in this division, illegal instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conduct is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of division (G) of this section, illegal instant bingo
or electronic instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.13) (Rev. 2022)
§ 134.13 RESTRICTIONS ON OWNER OR LESSOR OF LOCATION AT INSTANT BINGO.
   (A)   No owner or lessor of a location shall assist a charitable instant
bingo organization in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at that location unless the owner or lessor has entered into a written
contract, as described in R.C. § 2915.093, with the charitable instant bingo
organization to assist in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session.
   (B)   The location of the lessor or owner shall be designated as a location
where the charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant bingo other
than at a bingo session.
   (C)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (A) of this section shall violate any provision of
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915, or permit, aid, or abet any other person in
violating any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (D)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (A) of this section shall violate the terms of the
contract.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty
of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, illegal instant bingo conduct is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of division (C) or
(D) of this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If an owner or lessor of a location knowingly, intentionally, or
recklessly violates division (C) or (D) of this section, any license that the
owner or lessor holds for the retail sale of any goods on the owner’s or
lessor’s premises that is issued by the state or a political subdivision is
subject to suspension, revocation, or payment of a monetary penalty at the
request of the Attorney General.
(R.C. § 2915.094) (Rev. 2013)
§ 134.14 SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINES; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall give to another person any item described in division
(1), (2), (3), or (4) of the definition for “merchandise prize” in §
134.01 in exchange for a noncash prize, toy, or novelty received as a reward
for playing or operating a skill-based amusement machine or for a free or
reduced-price game won on a skill-based amusement machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of skill-based
amusement machine prohibited conduct. A violation of division (A) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree for each redemption of a prize
that is involved in the violation. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of division (A) of this section, a violation of that
division is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.06) (Rev. 2008)
   (C)   Any regulation of skill-based amusement machines shall be governed by
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 and not by R.C. Chapter 1345.
(R.C. § 2915.061) (Rev. 2020)
§ 134.15 ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No charitable organization shall conduct electronic instant bingo
unless all of the following are true:
      (1)   The organization is a veteran’s organization described in R.C. §
2915.01(J), or is a fraternal organization described in R.C. § 2915.01(L), and
the organization qualified as a veteran’s organization or fraternal
organization, as applicable, on or before June 30, 2021.
      (2)   The organization is a veteran’s organization described in IRC § 501
(c)(4) or is, and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a
determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the organization
is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a), and is described in
IRC § 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10), or 501(c)(19).
      (3)   The organization has not conducted a raffle in violation of R.C. §
2915.092(B) using an electronic raffle machine, as described in Ohio Veterans
and Fraternal Charitable Coalition v. DeWine, Case No. 13-CV-13610 (C.P.
Franklin Co. February 23, 2018), at any time on or after January 1, 2022.
   (B)   No charitable organization that conducts electronic instant bingo
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Possess an electronic instant bingo system that was not obtained in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 2915 or with any rule adopted under R.C. Chapter
2915;
      (2)   Conduct electronic instant bingo on any day, at any time, or on any
premises not specified on the organization’s type II or type III license issued
under R.C. § 2915.08;
      (3)   Hold more than one valid license to conduct electronic instant
bingo at any one time;
      (4)   Conduct electronic instant bingo on more than one premises or on
any premises other than the charitable organization’s principal place of
business;
      (5)   Operate more than ten electronic bingo systems at the premises on
which the charitable organization conducts electronic instant bingo under its
license;
      (6)   Fail to display both of the following conspicuously at the premises
on which the charitable organization conducts electronic instant bingo:
         (a)   The charitable organization’s bingo license;
         (b)   The serial number of each deal of electronic instant bingo
tickets being sold.
      (7)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should have
known, to be under 18 years of age to play electronic instant bingo;
      (8)   Sell or provide to any person an electronic instant bingo ticket
for a price different from the price displayed on the game flare for that deal,
except that the charitable organization may give a participant who wins an
electronic instant bingo game an electronic instant bingo ticket as a prize in
place of a cash prize;
      (9)   Fail, once an electronic instant bingo deal is begun, to continue
to sell tickets in that deal until all prizes have been awarded;
      (10)   Permit any person whom the organization knows, or should have
known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction
to be a bingo game operator in the conduct of electronic instant bingo;
      (11)   Permit a bingo game operator to play electronic instant bingo;
      (12)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(12)(b) of this
section, pay compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting electronic
instant bingo.
         (b)   Division (B)(12)(a) of this section does not prohibit an
employee of a veteran’s organization or fraternal organization from redeeming
electronic instant bingo tickets or vouchers for the organization’s members or
invited guests, so long as no portion of the employee’s compensation is paid
from any bingo receipts.
      (13)   Pay consulting fees to any person in relation to electronic
instant bingo.
   (C)   No person shall sell, offer to sell, or otherwise provide or offer to
provide an electronic instant bingo system to any person for use in this
municipality unless the electronic instant bingo system has been approved under
R.C. § 2915.15.
   (D)   Whoever knowingly violates division (A), (B), or (C) of this section
or a rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.14(D) is guilty of illegal electronic
instant bingo conduct. Illegal electronic instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree, except that if the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or state law, or of a rule adopted
under R.C. § 2915.14(D), illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.14) (Rev. 2022)
CHAPTER 135: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
135.01   Definitions
   
135.02   Negligent homicide
   
135.03   Vehicular homicide; vehicular manslaughter; vehicular assault
   
135.04   Assault; negligent assault
   
135.05   Injury to persons by hunters
   
135.06   Menacing; aggravated menacing; menacing by stalking
   
135.07   Unlawful restraint
   
135.08   Unlawful collection of bodily substances
   
135.09   Coercion
   
135.10   Bigamy
   
135.11   Unlawful abortion; failure to perform viability testing
   
135.12   Abortion trafficking
   
135.13   Nonsupport of dependents
   
135.14   Endangering children
   
135.15   Interference with custody; interference with support orders
   
135.16   Domestic violence
   
135.17   Hazing prohibited
   
135.18   Contributing to unruliness or delinquency of a child
   
135.19   Failure to provide for functionally impaired person
   
135.20   Patient abuse or neglect; patient endangerment; exceptions; false
statements; retaliation
   
135.21   Interference with right of person to engage in housing transactions
because of race, religion, or the like
   
135.22   Ethnic intimidation
   
135.23   Violating a protection order, consent agreement, anti-stalking
protection order or order issued by a court of another state
   
135.24   Adulteration of food
   
135.25   Illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products; transaction scans
   
135.26   Nonsmoking areas in places of public assembly
   
135.27   Spreading contagion
   
135.28   Abuse of a corpse
Statutory reference:
Child care, misrepresentations by providers and failure to disclose death or
serious injuries, misdemeanors, see R.C. §§ 2919.223 et seq.
Extortionate extension of credit, see R.C. §§ 2905.21 through 2905.24
Failure to send child to school, see R.C. § 3321.38
Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
Reckless homicide, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.041
Rights of victims of crimes, see R.C. Chapter 2930
§ 135.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of §§
135.01 through 135.06, the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ANOTHER’S UNBORN or OTHER PERSON’S UNBORN. A member of the species Homo
sapiens who is or was carried in the womb of another during a period that
begins with fertilization and that continues unless and until live birth
occurs.
      UNLAWFUL TERMINATION OF ANOTHER’S PREGNANCY. Causing the death of an
unborn member of the species Homo sapiens who is or was carried in the womb of
another, as a result of injuries inflicted during the period that begins with
fertilization and that continues unless and until live birth occurs.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) of this section, in no case shall the
definitions of the terms “another’s unborn”, “other person’s unborn” and
“unlawful termination of another’s pregnancy” that are set forth in division
(A) of this section be applied or construed in any of the following manners:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(1) of this section, in
a manner so that the offense prohibits or is construed as prohibiting any
pregnant woman or her physician from performing an abortion with the consent of
the pregnant woman, with the consent of the pregnant woman implied by law in a
medical emergency, or with the approval of one otherwise authorized by law to
consent to medical treatment on behalf of the pregnant woman. An abortion that
violates the conditions described in the immediately preceding sentence may be
punished as any violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02, 2903.03, 2903.04,
2903.05, 2903.06, 2903.08, 2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13, 2903.14, 2903.21 or
2903.22, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, as applicable. An
abortion that does not violate the conditions described in the second
immediately preceding sentence but that does violate R.C. § 2919.12, 2919.13
(B), 2919.15, 2919.151, 2919.17 or 2919.18, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, may be punished as a violation of such section, as
applicable.
      (2)   In a manner so that the offense is applied or is construed as
applying to a woman based on an act or omission of the woman that occurs while
she is or was pregnant and that results in any of the following:
         (a)   Her delivery of a stillborn baby.
         (b)   Her causing, in any other manner, the death in utero of a
viable, unborn human that she is carrying.
         (c)   Her causing the death of her child who is born alive but who
dies from one or more injuries that are sustained while the child is a viable,
unborn human.
         (d)   Her causing her child who is born alive to sustain one or more
injuries while the child is a viable, unborn human.
         (e)   Her causing, threatening to cause, or attempting to cause, in
any other manner, an injury, illness, or other psychological illness or
condition, regardless of its duration or gravity, to a viable, unborn human
that she is carrying.
(R.C. § 2903.09) (Rev. 2020)
§ 135.02 NEGLIGENT HOMICIDE.
   (A)   No person shall negligently cause the death of another or the unlawful
termination of another’s pregnancy by means of a deadly weapon or dangerous
ordnance, as defined in R.C. § 2923.11.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of negligent homicide, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2903.05) (Rev. 1997)
Statutory reference:
Reckless homicide, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.041
§ 135.03 VEHICULAR HOMICIDE; VEHICULAR MANSLAUGHTER; VEHICULAR ASSAULT.
   (A)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle, motorcycle, snowmobile, locomotive, watercraft, or aircraft,
shall cause the death of another or the unlawful termination of another’s
pregnancy in any of the following ways:
      (1)   (a)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
4511.19(A) or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
1547.11(A), or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         (c)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
4561.15(A)(3), or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   In one of the following ways:
         (a)   Recklessly;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a
construction zone, a reckless operation offense, provided that this division
applies only if the person whose death is caused or whose pregnancy is
unlawfully terminated is in the construction zone at the time of the offender’s
commission of the reckless operation offense in the construction zone and does
not apply as described in division (D) of this section.
      (3)   In one of the following ways:
         (a)   Negligently;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a
construction zone, a speeding offense, provided that this division applies only
if the person whose death is caused or whose pregnancy is unlawfully terminated
is in the construction zone at the time of the offender’s commission of the
speeding offense in the construction zone and does not apply as described in
division (D) of this section.
      (4)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of any provision
of any section contained in R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor or of a
municipal ordinance that, regardless of the penalty set by ordinance for the
violation, is substantially equivalent to any provision of any section
contained in R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of aggravated vehicular homicide, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(3) of this section is guilty of
vehicular homicide. Except as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular
homicide is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular homicide committed in
violation of division (A)(3) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if, at the time of the offense, the offender was driving
under a suspension or cancellation imposed under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other
provision of the Ohio Revised Code or was operating a motor vehicle or
motorcycle, did not have a valid driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege, and was not eligible for renewal of the offender’s driver’s license
or commercial driver’s license without examination under R.C. § 4507.10 or if
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation
of this section or any traffic- related homicide, manslaughter, or assault
offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class four suspension of
the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of
vehicular manslaughter. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
vehicular manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the second degree. Vehicular
manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the first degree if, at the time of the
offense, the offender was driving under a suspension or cancellation imposed
under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code or was
operating a motor vehicle or motorcycle, did not have a valid driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege, and was not eligible for renewal
of the offender’s driver’s license or commercial driver’s license without
examination under R.C. § 4507.10 or if the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section or any traffic-
related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class six suspension of
the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6) or, if the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section, any
traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense, or a traffic-
related murder, felonious assault, or attempted murder offense, a class four
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
   (C)   The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of at least 15 days on an
offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor violation of
division (A)(3)(b) of this section and may impose upon the offender a longer
jail term as authorized pursuant to R.C. § 2929.24.
   (D)   Divisions (A)(2)(b) and (A)(3)(b) of this section do not apply in a
particular construction zone unless signs of the type described in R.C. §
2903.081 are erected in that construction zone in accordance with the
guidelines and design specifications established by the Director of
Transportation under R.C. § 5501.27. The failure to erect signs of the type
described in R.C. § 2903.081 in a particular construction zone in accordance
with those guidelines and design specifications does not limit or affect the
application of division (A)(1), (A)(2)(a), (A)(3)(a), or (A)(4) of this section
in that construction zone or the prosecution of any person who violates any of
those divisions in that construction zone.
   (E)   (1)   As used in this section:
         CONSTRUCTION ZONE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5501.27.
         MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         MANDATORY PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
         RECKLESS OPERATION OFFENSE. Means a violation of R.C. § 4511.20 or a
municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to R.C. § 4511.20.
         SPEEDING OFFENSE. Means a violation of R.C. § 4511.21 or a municipal
ordinance pertaining to speed.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED HOMICIDE, MANSLAUGHTER, OR ASSAULT OFFENSE. Means a
violation of R.C. § 2903.04 in circumstances in which division (D) of that
section applies, a violation of R.C. § 2903.06 or 2903.08, or a violation of
R.C. § 2903.06, 2903.07, or 2903.08 as they existed prior to March 23, 2000.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED MURDER, FELONIOUS ASSAULT, OR ATTEMPTED MURDER
OFFENSE. Means a violation of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02 in circumstances
in which the offender used a motor vehicle as the means to commit the
violation, a violation of R.C. § 2903.11(A)(2) in circumstances in which the
deadly weapon used in the commission of the violation is a motor vehicle, or an
attempt to commit aggravated murder or murder in violation of R.C. § 2923.02 in
circumstances in which the offender used a motor vehicle as the means to
attempt to commit the aggravated murder or murder.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, when a penalty or suspension is
enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a prior
or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the specified
law or the specified offense includes any violation of any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this state, or current or former
law of this or another state or the United States.
(R.C. § 2903.06) (Rev. 2020)
   (F)   Vehicular assault.
      (1)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle or motorcycle, shall cause serious physical harm to another
person or another’s unborn as the proximate result of committing, while
operating or participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in
a construction zone, a speeding offense, provided that this division applies
only if the person to whom the serious physical harm is caused or to whose
unborn the serious physical harm is caused is in the construction zone at the
time of the offender’s commission of the speeding offense in the construction
zone and does not apply as described in division (F)(4) of this section.
      (2)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular
assault committed in violation of division (F)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular assault committed in violation of
division (F)(1) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law if, at the time of the offense, the offender was driving under a
suspension imposed under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Ohio
Revised Code or if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (F)(1) of this section, R.C. § 2903.08, or
any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed, the court shall
impose upon the offender a class four suspension of the offender’s driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (3)   The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of at least seven days
on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor violation
of division (F)(1) of this section and may impose upon the offender a longer
jail term as authorized pursuant to R.C. § 2929.24.
      (4)   Division (F)(1) of this section does not apply in a particular
construction zone unless signs of the type described in R.C. § 2903.081 are
erected in that construction zone in accordance with the guidelines and design
specifications established by the Director of Transportation under R.C. §
5501.27.
      (5)   As used in this division (F):
         CONSTRUCTION ZONE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5501.27.
         MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         SPEEDING OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.06.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED HOMICIDE, MANSLAUGHTER, OR ASSAULT OFFENSE. Has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.06.
      (6)   For the purposes of this division (F), when a penalty or suspension
is enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a
prior or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the
specified law or the specified offense includes any violation of any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this state, or
current or former law of another state or the United States.
(R.C. 2903.08(A)(3), (C)(3), (D)(3), (E) - (G)) (Rev. 2020)
Statutory reference:
Court to suspend driver’s license, see R.C. §§ 4510.05 and 4510.07
Vehicular assault and aggravated vehicular assault, felony offenses, see R.C. §
2903.08
§ 135.04 ASSAULT; NEGLIGENT ASSAULT.
   (A)   Assault.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm
to another or to another’s unborn.
      (2)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to another
or to another’s unborn.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of assault. Except as provided in R.C. § 2903.13(C), assault is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (4)   If an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to assault when
it is a misdemeanor also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification as
described in R.C. § 2941.1423 (victim of the offense was a woman whom the
defendant knew was pregnant at the time of the offense) that was included in
the indictment, count in the indictment, or information charging the offense,
the court shall sentence the offender to a mandatory jail term as provided in
R.C. § 2929.24(G).
(R.C. § 2903.13) (Rev. 2010)
   (B)   Negligent assault.
      (1)   No person shall negligently, by means of a deadly weapon or
dangerous ordnance as defined in R.C. § 2923.11, cause physical harm to another
or to another’s unborn.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
negligent assault, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 2903.14) (Rev. 1997)
Cross-reference:
Jurisdictional limitation on Mayor regarding violations of division (A) of this
section, see §
33.01(E)
Statutory reference:
Aggravated and felonious assault, see R.C. §§ 2903.11 and 2903.12
Felony offenses: assaulting functionally impaired person, peace officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation,
firefighter, person performing emergency medical service, officer or employee
of a public children services agency or private child placing agency; assault
at a correctional institution; assault on school officials and school bus
drivers; health care professional, worker or security guard at a hospital under
certain circumstances; judge, magistrate, prosecutor or court official or
employee under certain circumstances, see R.C. § 2903.13(C)
Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
Persons who may seek relief under anti-stalking protection order; ex parte
orders, see R.C. § 2903.214
Protection order as pretrial condition of release, see R.C. § 2903.213
Vehicular assault and aggravated vehicular assault, felony offenses, see R.C. §
2903.08
§ 135.05 INJURY TO PERSONS BY HUNTERS.
   (A)   No person in the act of hunting, pursuing, taking, or killing a wild
animal shall act in a negligent, careless, or reckless manner so as to injure
persons.
(R.C. § 1533.171(A)) (Rev. 1999)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 1533.99(C)) (Rev. 1997)
Statutory reference:
Violation, license revocation, see R.C. § 1533.171(B) through (E)
§ 135.06 MENACING; AGGRAVATED MENACING; MENACING BY STALKING.
   (A)   Menacing.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the
offender will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other
person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s immediate
family. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that the
offender will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other
person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s immediate
family, the other person’s belief may be based on words or conduct of the
offender that are directed at or identify a corporation, association, or other
organization that employs the other person or to which the other person
belongs.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of
menacing. Except as otherwise provided in this division (A)(2), menacing is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the victim of the offense is an officer or
employee of a public children services agency or a private child placing agency
and the offense relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or
anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties, menacing is a
misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that
prior offense was an officer or employee of a public children services agency
or private child placing agency, and that prior offense related to the
officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated performance of official
responsibilities or duties, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (3)   As used in this division (A), ORGANIZATION includes an entity that
is a governmental employer.
(R.C. § 2903.22) (Rev. 2015)
   (B)   Aggravated menacing.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the
offender will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of the
other person, such other person’s unborn, or a member of such other person’s
immediate family. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief
that the offender will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of
the other person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s
immediate family, the other person’s belief may be based on words or conduct of
the offender that are directed at or identify a corporation, association, or
other organization that employs the other person or to which the other person
belongs.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
aggravated menacing. Except as otherwise provided in this division (B)(2),
aggravated menacing is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the victim of the
offense is an officer or employee of a public children services agency or a
private child placing agency and the offense relates to the officer’s or
employee’s performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities
or duties, aggravated menacing is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an
officer or employee of a public children services agency or private child
placing agency, and that prior offense related to the officer’s or employee’s
performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties,
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   As used in this division (B), ORGANIZATION includes an entity that
is a governmental employer.
(R.C. § 2903.21) (Rev. 2015)
   (C)   Menacing by stalking.
      (1)   (a)   No person by engaging in a pattern of conduct shall knowingly
cause another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to
the other person or a family or household member of the other person or cause
mental distress to the other person or a family or household member of the
other person. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that
the offender will cause physical harm to the other person or the other person’s
family or household member or mental distress to the other person or the other
person’s family or household member, the other person’s belief or mental
distress may be based on words or conduct of the offender that are directed at
or identify a corporation, association, or other organization that employs the
other person or to which the other person belongs.
         (b)   No person, through the use of any form of written communication
or any electronic method of remotely transferring information, including but
not limited to any computer, computer network, computer program, computer
system, or telecommunication device, shall post a message or use any
intentionally written or verbal graphic gesture with purpose to do either of
the following:
            1.   Violate division (C)(1)(a) of this section;
            2.   Urge or incite another to commit a violation of division (C)
(1)(a) of this section.
         (c)   No person, with a sexual motivation, shall violate division (C)
(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this section.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C)(1) of this section is guilty of
menacing by stalking.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2)(b) of this
section, menacing by stalking is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   Menacing by stalking is a felony, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law, if any of the following applies:
            1.   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 2903.211 or a violation of R.C. § 2911.211, or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to either of these offenses.
            2.   In committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b)
or (C)(1)(c) of this section, the offender made a threat of physical harm to or
against the victim, or as a result of an offense committed under division (C)
(1)(b) or (C)(1)(c) of this section, a third person induced by the offender’s
posted message made a threat of physical harm to or against the victim.
            3.   In committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b)
or (C)(1)(c) of this section, the offender trespassed on the land or premises
where the victim lives, is employed, or attends school, or as a result of an
offense committed under division (C)(1)(b) or (C)(1)(c) of this section, a
third person induced by the offender’s posted message trespassed on the land or
premises where the victim lives, is employed, or attends school.
            4.   The victim of the offense is a minor.
            5.   The offender has a history of violence towards the victim or
any other person or a history of other violent acts towards the victim or any
other person.
            6.   While committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a) of this
section or a violation of division (C)(1)(c) of this section based on conduct
in violation of division (C)(1)(a) of this section, the offender had a deadly
weapon on or about the offender’s person or under the offender’s control.
Division (C)(2)(b)6. of this section does not apply in determining the penalty
for a violation of division (C)(1)(b) of this section or a violation of
division (C)(1)(c) of this section based on conduct in violation of division
(C)(1)(b) of this section.
            7.   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
the subject of a protection order issued under R.C. § 2903.213 or R.C. §
2903.214, regardless of whether or not the person to be protected under the
order is the victim of the offense or another person.
            8.   In committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b)
or (C)(1)(c) of this section, the offender caused serious physical harm to the
premises at which the victim resides, to the real property on which that
premises is located, or to any personal property located on that premises, or
as a result of an offense committed under division (C)(1)(b) of this section or
an offense committed under division (C)(1)(c) of this section based on a
violation of division (C)(1)(b) of this section, a third person induced by the
offender’s posted message caused serious physical harm to that premises, that
real property, or any personal property on that premises.
            9.   Prior to committing the offense, the offender had been
determined to represent a substantial risk of physical harm to others as
manifested by evidence of then-recent homicidal or other violent behavior,
evidence of then-recent threats that placed another in reasonable fear of
violent behavior and serious harm, or other evidence of then-present
dangerousness.
            10.   The victim of the offense is an officer or employee of a
public children services agency or a private child placing agency and the
offense relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated
performance of official responsibilities or duties.
            11.   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an
officer or employee of a public children services agency or private child
placing agency, and that prior offense related to the officer’s or employee’s
performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties.
      (3)   R.C. § 2919.271 applies in relation to a defendant charged with a
violation of this section.
      (4)   As used in division (C) of this section:
         COMPUTER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         COMPUTER NETWORK. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         COMPUTER PROGRAM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         COMPUTER SYSTEM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
         EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency
medical services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
         FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
            1.   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
person against whom the act prohibited in division (C)(1)(a) of this section is
committed:
               a.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse
of the person;
               b.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the person, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the person;
               c.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse,
or former spouse of the person, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
person.
            2.   The natural parent of any child of whom the person against
whom the act prohibited in division (C)(1)(a) of this section is committed is
the other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
         MENTAL DISTRESS. Means any of the following:
            1.   Any mental illness or condition that involves some temporary
substantial incapacity;
            2.   Any mental illness or condition that would normally require
psychiatric treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health
services, whether or not any person requested or received psychiatric
treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health services.
         ORGANIZATION. Includes an entity that is a governmental employer.
         PATTERN OF CONDUCT. Means two or more actions or incidents closely
related in time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any
of those actions or incidents, or two or more actions or incidents closely
related in time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any
of those actions or incidents, directed at one or more persons employed by or
belonging to the same corporation, association, or other organization. Actions
or incidents that prevent, obstruct, or delay the performance by a public
official, firefighter, rescuer, emergency medical services person, or emergency
facility person of any authorized act within the public official’s,
firefighter’s, rescuer’s, emergency medical services person’s, or emergency
facility person’s official capacity, or the posting of messages, use of
intentionally written or verbal graphic gestures, or receipt of information or
data through the use of any form of written communication or an electronic
method of remotely transferring information, including but not limited to a
computer, computer network, computer program, computer system, or
telecommunications device, may constitute a “pattern of conduct”.
         PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has lived
with the person against whom the act prohibited in division (C)(1)(a) of this
section is committed in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise is
cohabiting with that person, or who otherwise has cohabited with the person
within five years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in
question.
         POST A MESSAGE. Means transferring, sending, posting, publishing,
disseminating, or otherwise communicating, or attempting to transfer, send,
post, publish, disseminate, or otherwise communicate, any message or
information, whether truthful or untruthful, about an individual, and whether
done under one’s own name, under the name of another, or while impersonating
another.
         PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.01.
         SEXUAL MOTIVATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2971.01.
         TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         THIRD PERSON. Means, in relation to conduct as described in division
(C)(1)(b) of this section, an individual who is neither the offender nor the
victim of the conduct.
      (5)   The prosecution does not need to prove in a prosecution under
division (C) of this section that a person requested or received psychiatric
treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health services in order to
show that the person was caused mental distress as described in division (2) of
the definition for “mental distress” in this section.
      (6)   (a)   Division (C) of this section does not apply to a person
solely because the person provided access or connection to or from an
electronic method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s
control, including having provided capabilities that are incidental to
providing access or connection to or from the electronic method of remotely
transferring the information, and that do not include the creation of the
content of the material that is the subject of the access or connection. In
addition, any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic
method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control
shall not be liable for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the
receipt or transmission through its service of any information that it believes
is or will be sent in violation of division (C) of this section.
         (b)   Division (C)(6)(a) of this section does not create an
affirmative duty for any person providing access or connection to or from an
electronic method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s
control to block the receipt or transmission through its service of any
information that it believes is or will be sent in violation of division (C) of
this section except as otherwise provided by law.
         (c)   Division (C)(6)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of division (C) of this section or who
knowingly advertises the availability of material of that nature.
(R.C. § 2903.211) (Rev. 2017)
Cross-reference:
Jurisdictional limitation on Mayor regarding violations of division (C) of this
section, see §
33.01(E)
Violation of protection orders, see §
135.23
Statutory reference:
Authority of corporations to seek protection orders in certain circumstances,
see R.C. § 2903.215
Conditions of bail for violators, see R.C. § 2903.212
Persons who may seek relief under anti-stalking protection order; ex parte
orders, see R.C. § 2903.214
Protection order as pretrial condition of release, see R.C. § 2903.213
§ 135.07 UNLAWFUL RESTRAINT.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly restrain
another of the other person’s liberty.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so and with a sexual motivation,
shall knowingly restrain another of the other person’s liberty.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful restraint, a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, SEXUAL MOTIVATION has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2971.01.
(R.C. § 2905.03) (Rev. 2008)
§ 135.08 UNLAWFUL COLLECTION OF BODILY SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly collect any blood, urine, tissue, or other
bodily substance of another person without privilege or consent to do so.
   (B)   (1)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
         (a)   The collection of any bodily substance of a person by a law
enforcement officer, or by another person pursuant to the direction or advice
of a law enforcement officer, for purposes of a chemical test or tests of the
substance under R.C. § 1547.111(A)(1) or R.C. § 4511.191(A)(2) to determine the
alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or
combination content of the bodily substance;
         (b)   The collection of any bodily substance of a person by a peace
officer, or by another person pursuant to the direction or advice of a peace
officer, for purposes of a test or tests of the substance as provided in R.C. §
4506.17(A) to determine the person’s alcohol concentration or the presence of
any controlled substance or metabolite of a controlled substance.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section shall not be construed as implying
that the persons identified in divisions (B)(1)(a) and (b) of this section do
not have privilege to collect the bodily substance of another person as
described in those divisions or as limiting the definition of “privilege” set
forth in R.C. § 2901.01.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of unlawful
collection of a bodily substance. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, unlawful collection of a bodily substance is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, unlawful collection of a bodily
substance is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.15) (Rev. 2021)
§ 135.09 COERCION.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to coerce another into taking or refraining
from action concerning which the other person has a legal freedom of choice,
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Threaten to commit any offense.
      (2)   Utter or threaten any slander against any person.
      (3)   Expose or threaten to expose any matter tending to subject any
person to hatred, contempt, or ridicule, or to damage any person’s personal or
business repute, or to impair any person’s credit.
      (4)   Institute or threaten criminal proceedings against any person.
      (5)   Take or withhold, or threaten to take or withhold official action,
or cause or threaten to cause official action to be taken or withheld.
   (B)   Divisions (A)(4) and (A)(5) of this section shall not be construed to
prohibit a prosecutor or court from doing any of the following in good faith
and in the interests of justice:
      (1)   Offering or agreeing to grant, or granting immunity from
prosecution pursuant to R.C. § 2945.44.
      (2)   In return for a plea of guilty to one or more offenses charged or
to one or more other or lesser offenses, or in return for the testimony of the
accused in a case to which the accused is not a party, offering or agreeing to
dismiss, or dismissing one or more charges pending against an accused, or
offering or agreeing to impose, or imposing a certain sentence or modification
of sentence.
      (3)   Imposing a community control sanction on certain conditions,
including without limitation requiring the offender to make restitution or
redress to the victim of the offense.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3), (A)
(4), or (A)(5) of this section that the actor’s conduct was a reasonable
response to the circumstances which occasioned it, and that the actor’s purpose
was limited to any of the following:
      (1)   Compelling another to refrain from misconduct or to desist from
further misconduct.
      (2)   Preventing or redressing a wrong or injustice.
      (3)   Preventing another from taking action for which the actor
reasonably believed the other person to be disqualified.
      (4)   Compelling another to take action which the actor reasonably
believed the other person to be under a duty to take.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of coercion, a misdemeanor of
the second degree.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      COMMUNITY CONTROL SANCTION has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      THREAT includes a direct threat and a threat by innuendo.
(R.C. § 2905.12) (Rev. 2016)
§ 135.10 BIGAMY.
   (A)   No married person shall marry another or continue to cohabit with such
other person in this municipality.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
actor’s spouse was continuously absent for five years immediately preceding the
purported subsequent marriage, and was not known by the actor to be alive
within that time.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of bigamy, a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
(R.C. § 2919.01)
§ 135.11 UNLAWFUL ABORTION; FAILURE TO PERFORM VIABILITY TESTING.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ABORTION. Means the purposeful termination of a human pregnancy by any
person, including the pregnant woman herself, with an intention other than to
produce a live birth or to remove a dead fetus or embryo.
(R.C. § 2919.11)
      EMANCIPATED. A minor shall be considered emancipated if the minor has
married, entered the armed services of the United States, become employed and
self- subsisting, or has otherwise become independent from the care and control
of her parent, guardian or custodian.
      UNEMANCIPATED. Means a woman who is unmarried and under 18 years of age
who has not entered the armed services of the United States, has not become
employed and self-subsisting, or has not otherwise become independent from the
care and control of her parent, guardian, or custodian.
   (B)   No person shall perform or induce an abortion without the informed
consent of the pregnant woman.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly perform or induce an abortion upon a
pregnant minor unless one of the following is the case:
      (1)   The attending physician has secured the informed written consent of
the minor and one parent, guardian or custodian;
      (2)   The minor is emancipated and the attending physician has received
her informed written consent;
      (3)   The minor has been authorized to consent to the abortion by a court
order issued pursuant to R.C. § 2919.121(C) and the attending physician has
received her informed written consent; or
      (4)    The court has given its consent in accordance with R.C. § 2919.121
(C) and the minor is having the abortion willingly.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly perform or induce an abortion upon a woman
who is pregnant, unmarried, under 18 years of age, and unemancipated unless at
least one of the circumstances enumerated in R.C. § 2919.12(B) applies.
   (E)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (D) of
this section that the pregnant woman provided the person who performed or
induced the abortion with false, misleading, or incorrect information about her
age, marital status, or emancipation, about the age of the brother or sister to
whom she requested notice to be given as a specified relative instead of one of
her parents, her guardian, or her custodian, or about the last known address of
either of her parents, her guardian, her custodian, or a specified brother,
sister, stepparent, or grandparent to whom she requested notice be given and
the person who performed or induced the abortion did not otherwise have
reasonable cause to believe the pregnant woman was under 18 years of age,
unmarried, or unemancipated, to believe that the age of the brother or sister
to whom she requested notice be given as a specified relative instead of one of
her parents, her guardian, or her custodian was not 21 years of age, or to
believe that the last known address of either of her parents, her guardian, her
custodian, or a specified brother, sister, stepparent, or grandparent to whom
she requested notice be given was incorrect.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that
compliance with the requirements of this section was not possible because an
immediate threat of serious risk to the life or physical health of the pregnant
woman or pregnant minor from the continuation of her pregnancy created an
emergency necessitating the immediate performance or inducement of an abortion.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful abortion. A
violation of division (B), (C) or (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree on the first offense and a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is liable to the pregnant woman or
pregnant minor, and her parents, guardian, or custodian for civil, compensatory
and exemplary damages.
(R.C. §§ 2919.12, 2919.121)
   (H)   (1)   Division (C) of this section applies in lieu of division (D) of
this section whenever its operation is not enjoined. If division (C) of this
section is enjoined, division (D) of this section applies.
      (2)   If a person complies with the requirements of division (D) of this
section under the good faith belief that the application or enforcement of
division (C) of this section is subject to a restraining order or injunction,
good faith compliance shall constitute a complete defense to any civil,
criminal or professional disciplinary action brought under division (C) of this
section or R.C. § 2919.121.
      (3)   If a person complies with the requirements of division (C) of this
section under the good faith belief that it is not subject to a restraining
order or injunction, good faith compliance shall constitute a complete defense
to any civil, criminal or professional disciplinary action for failure to
comply with the requirements of division (D) of this section.
(R.C. § 2919.122) (Rev. 1999)
   (I)   Failure to perform viability testing.
      (1)   Except in a medical emergency that prevents compliance with this
division, no physician shall perform or induce or attempt to perform or induce
an abortion on a pregnant woman after the beginning of the twentieth week of
gestation unless, prior to the performance or inducement of the abortion or the
attempt to perform or induce the abortion, the physician determines, in the
physician’s good faith medical judgment, that the unborn child is not viable,
and the physician makes that determination after performing a medical
examination of the pregnant woman and after performing or causing to be
performed those tests for assessing gestational age, weight, lung maturity, or
other tests that the physician, in that physician’s good faith medical
judgment, believes are necessary to determine whether an unborn child is
viable.
      (2)   Except in a medical emergency that prevents compliance with this
division, no physician shall perform or induce or attempt to perform or induce
an abortion on a pregnant woman after the beginning of the twentieth week of
gestation without first entering the determination made in division (I)(1) of
this section and the associated findings of the medical examination and tests
in the medical record of the pregnant woman.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (I) is guilty of failure to perform
viability testing, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (4)   The State Medical Board shall suspend a physician’s license to
practice medicine in this state for a period of not less than six months if the
physician violates this section.
(R.C. § 2919.18) (Rev. 2012)
Statutory reference:
Judicial bypass, see R.C. § 2151.85
Judicial consent and the right of a minor to consent, see R.C. § 2919.121(C)
Notice or consent requirements for unmarried minors, see R.C. § 2919.12(B)
§ 135.12 ABORTION TRAFFICKING.
   (A)   No person shall experiment upon or sell the product of human
conception which is aborted. Experiment does not include autopsies pursuant to
R.C. §§ 313.13 and 2108.50.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of abortion trafficking, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2919.14)
§ 135.13 NONSUPPORT OF DEPENDENTS.
   (A)   No person shall abandon, or fail to provide adequate support to:
      (1)   His or her spouse, as required by law;
      (2)   His or her legitimate or illegitimate child who is under age 18, or
mentally or physically disabled child who is under age 21;
      (3)   His or her aged or infirm parent or adoptive parent, who from lack
of ability and means is unable to provide adequately for his or her own
support.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall abandon, or fail to provide support as
established by a court order to, another person whom, by court order or decree,
the person:
         (a)   Is legally obligated to support; or
         (b)   Was legally obligated to support, and an amount for support:
            1.   Was due and owing prior to the date the person’s duty to pay
current support terminated; and
            2.   Remains unpaid.
      (2)   The period of limitation under R.C. § 2901.13 applicable to
division (B)(1)(b) of this section shall begin to run on the date the person’s
duty to pay current support terminates.
   (C)   No person shall aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage, or contribute to
a child or a ward of the juvenile court becoming a dependent child, as defined
in R.C. § 2151.04, or a neglected child, as defined in R.C. § 2151.03.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of failure to provide
adequate support under division (A) of this section or a charge of failure to
provide support established by a court order under division (B) of this section
that the accused was unable to provide adequate support or the established
support, but did provide the support that was within his or her ability and
means.
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3) of this
section that the parent abandoned the accused, or failed to support the accused
as required by law, while the accused was under age 18, or was mentally or
physically disabled and under age 21.
   (F)   It is not a defense to a charge under division (B) of this section
that the person whom a court has ordered the accused to support is being
adequately supported by someone other than the accused.
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of nonsupport of dependents, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (A)(2) or (B) of this section
or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or if the
offender has failed to provide support under division (A)(2) or (B) of this
section for a total accumulated period of 26 weeks out of 104 consecutive
weeks, whether or not the 26 weeks were consecutive, then a violation of
division (A)(2) or (B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to a felony violation of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or
(B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the offender is guilty of nonsupport of dependents by reason of
failing to provide support to his or her child as required by a child support
order issued on or after April 15, 1985, pursuant to R.C. § 2151.23, 2151.231,
2151.232, 2151.33, 3105.21, 3109.05, 3111.13, 3113.04, 3113.31, 3115.401, or
former R.C. § 3115.31, the court, in addition to any other sentence imposed,
shall assess all court costs arising out of the charge against the person and
require the person to pay any reasonable attorney’s fees of any adverse party
other than the state, as determined by the court, that arose in relation to the
charge.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
contributing to the nonsupport of dependents, a misdemeanor of the first
degree. Each day of a violation of division (C) of this section is a separate
offense.
(R.C. § 2919.21) (Rev. 2019)
§ 135.14 ENDANGERING CHILDREN.
   (A)   No person, who is the parent, guardian, custodian, person having
custody or control, or person in loco parentis of a child under 18 years of age
or a mentally or physically disabled child under 21 years of age, shall create
a substantial risk to the health or safety of the child by violating a duty of
care, protection, or support. It is not a violation of a duty of care,
protection, or support under this division when the parent, guardian,
custodian, or person having custody or control of a child treats the physical
or mental illness or disability of the child by spiritual means through prayer
alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious body.
   (B)   No person shall do any of the following to a child under 18 years of
age or a mentally or physically disabled child under 21 years of age:
      (1)   Abuse the child.
      (2)   Torture or cruelly abuse the child.
      (3)   Administer corporal punishment or other physical disciplinary
measure, or physically restrain the child in a cruel manner or for a prolonged
period, which punishment, discipline or restraint is excessive under the
circumstances and creates a substantial risk of serious physical harm to the
child.
      (4)   Repeatedly administer unwarranted disciplinary measures to a child
when there is a substantial risk that such conduct, if continued, will
seriously impair or retard the child’s mental health or development.
      (5)   Entice, coerce, permit, encourage, compel, hire, employ, use, or
allow the child to act, model, or in any other way participate in, or be
photographed for, the production, presentation, dissemination, or advertisement
of any material or performance that the offender knows or reasonably should
know is obscene, is sexually oriented matter, or is nudity-oriented matter;
      (6)   Allow the child to be on the same parcel of real property and
within 100 feet of, or, in the case of more than one housing unit on the same
parcel of real property, in the same housing unit and within 100 feet of, any
act in violation of R.C. § 2925.04 or 2925.041 when the person knows that the
act is occurring, whether or not any person is prosecuted for or convicted of
the violation of R.C. § 2925.04 or 2925.041 that is the basis of the violation
of this division.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle, as defined by R.C. § 4511.01,
within the municipality and in violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, when one or more children under
18 years of age are in the vehicle. Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
a person may be convicted at the same trial or proceeding of a violation of
this division and a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that constitutes the basis of the charge of the
violation of this division. For purposes of R.C. §§ 4511.191 through 4511.197
and all related provisions of law, a person arrested for a violation of this
division shall be considered to be under arrest for operating a vehicle while
under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them or
for operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a
controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
      (2)   As used in division (C)(1) of this section:
         CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
         VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   (D)   (1)   Division (B)(5) of this section does not apply to any material
or performance that is produced, presented, or disseminated for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, religious, governmental, judicial, or other
proper purpose, by or to a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist,
teacher, person pursuing bona fide studies for research, librarian, member of
the clergy, prosecutor, judge, or other person having a proper interest in the
material or performance.
      (2)   Mistake of age is not a defense to a charge under division (B)(5)
of this section.
      (3)   In a prosecution under division (B)(5) of this section, the trier
of fact may infer that an actor, model, or participant in the material or
performance involved is a juvenile if the material or performance, through its
title, text, visual representation, or otherwise, represents or depicts the
actor, model, or participant as a juvenile.
      (4)   As used in this division and division (B)(5) of this section:
         MATERIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         NUDITY-ORIENTED MATTER means any material or performance that shows a
minor in a state of nudity and that, taken as a whole by the average person
applying contemporary community standards, appeals to the prurient interest.
         OBSCENE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         PERFORMANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         SEXUALLY ORIENTED MATTER. Means any material or performance that shows
a minor participating or engaging in sexual activity, masturbation, or
bestiality.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of endangering children.
      (1)   If the offender violates division (A) or (B)(1) of this section,
endangering children is one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(1)(b), (E)(1)(c) or
(E)(1)(d), a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of an offense
under this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, or of any offense involving neglect, abandonment, or contributing to
the delinquency of or physical abuse of a child, except as otherwise provided
in division (E)(1)(c) or (E)(1)(d) of this section, endangering children is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation is a violation of division (A) of this section
and results in serious physical harm to the child involved, endangering
children is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (d)   If the violation is a violation of division (B)(1) of this
section and results in serious physical harm to the child involved, endangering
children is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the offender violates division (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(5) or
(B)(6) of this section, endangering children is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the offender violates division (C) of this section, the offender
shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   Except as provided in (E)(3)(b) or (E)(3)(c), endangering
children in violation of division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
         (b)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the child
or if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this section
or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any
offense involving neglect, abandonment, or contributing to the delinquency of
or physical abuse of a child, except as otherwise provided in division (E)(3)
(c) of this section, endangering children in violation of division (C) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the child
and if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this
section, R.C. § 2903.06, 2903.08, 2919.22(C) or former R.C. § 2903.07 as it
existed prior to March 23, 2000, or R.C. § 2903.04, in a case in which the
offender was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that
section, endangering children in violation of division (C) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (d)   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine, or other
sentence, penalty or sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to
divisions (E)(3)(a), (E)(3)(b) or (E)(3)(c) of this section or pursuant to any
other provision of law, and in addition to any suspension of the offender’s
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege under R.C. Chapter 4506, 4509, 4510, or 4511, or any other
provision of law, the court also may impose upon the offender a class seven
suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(7).
         (e)   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine, or other
sentence, penalty or sanction imposed upon the offender pursuant to division
(E)(3)(a), (E)(3)(b), (E)(3)(c) or (E)(3)(d) of this section or pursuant to any
other provision of law for the violation of division (C) of this section, if as
a part of the same trial or proceeding the offender also is convicted of or
pleads guilty to a separate charge charging the violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A),
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the
charge of the violation of division (C) of this section, the offender also
shall be sentenced in accordance with R.C. § 4511.19, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, for that violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (F)   (1)   If a person violates division (C) of this section and if, at the
time of the violation, there were two or more children under 18 years of age in
the motor vehicle involved in the violation, the offender may be convicted of a
violation of division (C) of this section for each of the children, but the
court may sentence the offender for only one of the violations.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation
of division (C) of this section but the person is not also convicted of and
does not also plead guilty to a separate charge of violating R.C. § 4511.19(A),
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the
charge of the violation of division (C) of this section, both the following
apply:
            1.   For purposes of the provisions of R.C. § 4511.19, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that set forth the penalties and
sanctions for a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the conviction of or plea of guilty to the violation of
division (C) of this section shall not constitute a violation of R.C. § 4511.19
(A), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
            2.   For purposes of the provisions of law that refers to a
conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and that is not described in
division (F)(2)(a)1. of this section, the conviction of or plea of guilty to
the violation of division (C) of this section shall constitute a conviction or
plea of guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
         (b)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (C) of this section and the person also is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a separate charge of violating R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the charge of the
violation of division (C) of this section, the conviction of or plea of guilty
to the violation of division (C) of this section shall not constitute, for the
purposes of any provision of law that refers to a conviction of or a plea of
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, a conviction of or a plea of guilty to a violation of R.C.
§ 4511.19(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 2919.22(A) - (E), (H)) (Rev. 2007)
Statutory reference:
Community service, requirements, see R.C. § 2919.22(F)
License suspension, requirements, see R.C. § 2919.22(G)
Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
§ 135.15 INTERFERENCE WITH CUSTODY; INTERFERENCE WITH SUPPORT ORDERS.
   (A)   Interference with custody.
      (1)   No person, knowing that he or she is without privilege to do so or
being reckless in that regard, shall entice, take, keep, or harbor a person
identified in division (A)(1)(a), (A)(1)(b) or (A)(1)(c) of this section from
the parent, guardian, or custodian of the person identified in division (A)(1)
(a), (A)(1)(b) or (A)(1)(c) of this section:
         (a)   A child under the age of 18, or a mentally or physically
disabled child under the age of 21;
         (b)   A person committed by law to an institution for delinquent,
unruly, neglected, abused, or dependent children;
         (c)   A person committed by law to an institution for the mentally ill
or an institution for persons with intellectual disabilities.
      (2)   No person shall aid, abet, induce, cause, or encourage a child or a
ward of the juvenile court who has been committed to the custody of any person,
department, or public or private institution to leave the custody of that
person, department, or institution without legal consent.
      (3)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of enticing or taking
under division (A)(1)(a) of this section that the actor reasonably believed
that his or her conduct was necessary to preserve the child’s health or safety.
It is an affirmative defense to a charge of keeping or harboring under division
(A)(1) of this section that the actor in good faith gave notice to law
enforcement or judicial authorities within a reasonable time after the child or
committed person came under his or her shelter, protection, or influence.
      (4)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference with
custody.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this subdivision, a violation of
division (A)(1)(a) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the child who
is the subject of a violation of division (A)(1)(a) is removed from the state
or if the offender previously has been convicted of an offense under this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. If the child who is the subject of a violation of
division (A)(1)(a) suffers physical harm as a result of the violation, a
violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
         (b)   A violation of division (A)(1)(b) or (A)(1)(c) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         (c)   A violation of division (A)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. Each day of a violation of division (A)(2) is a separate
offense.
(R.C. § 2919.23) (Rev. 2017)
   (B)   Interference with support orders.
      (1)   No person, by using physical harassment or threats of violence
against another person, shall interfere with the other person’s initiation or
continuance of, or attempt to prevent the other person from initiating or
continuing, an action to issue or modify a support order under R.C. Chapter
3115, or under R.C. § 2151.23, 2151.231, 2151.232, 2151.33, 2151.36, 2151.361,
2151.49, 3105.18, 3105.21, 3109.05, 3109.19, 3111.13, 3113.04, 3113.07, or
3113.31.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of interfering with an
action to issue or modify a support order, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
violation of this division (B) or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, or R.C. § 3111.19, interfering with an action to issue or
modify a support order is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
(R.C. § 2919.231) (Rev. 2002)
§ 135.16 DOMESTIC VIOLENCE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm to a
family or household member.
   (B)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to a family or
household member.
   (C)   No person, by threat of force, shall knowingly cause a family or
household member to believe that the offender will cause imminent physical harm
to the family or household member.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of domestic violence,
and the court shall sentence the offender as provided in divisions (D)(2) to
(D)(5) of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3), (D)(4) or (D)(5)
of this section, a violation of division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor
of the fourth degree and a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section is
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(4) of this section, if
the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of domestic
violence, a violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or the United States that is substantially equivalent
to domestic violence, a violation of R.C. § 2903.14, 2909.06, 2909.07, 2911.12,
2911.211, or 2919.22 if the victim of the violation was a family or household
member at the time of the violation, a violation of an existing or former
municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or the United States that
is substantially equivalent to any of those sections if the victim of the
violation was a family or household member at the time of the commission of the
violation, or any offense of violence if the victim of the offense was a family
or household member at the time of the commission of the offense, a violation
of division (A) or (B) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law, and a violation of division (C) is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   If the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted
of two or more offenses of domestic violence or two or more violations or
offenses of the type described in division (D)(3) of this section involving a
person who was a family or household member at the time of the violations or
offenses, a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law, and a violation of division (C) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) or (D)(4) of this
section, if the offender knew that the victim of the violation was pregnant at
the time of the violation, a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law, and a violation of
division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no court or unit
of state or local government shall charge any fee, cost, deposit, or money in
connection with the filing of charges against a person alleging that the person
violated this section or a municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to this
section or in connection with the prosecution of any charges so filed.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
offender:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse as defined below, or a
former spouse of the offender;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the offender, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the offender;
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the offender, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
offender.
         (b)   The natural parent of any child of whom the offender is the
other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
      PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has lived with
the offender in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting
with the offender, or who otherwise has cohabited with the offender within five
years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in question.
(R.C. § 2919.25) (Rev. 2011)
Cross-reference:
Jurisdictional limitation on Mayor regarding violations of this section, see §
33.01(E)
Violation of protection orders, see §
135.23
Statutory reference:
Temporary protection orders, see R.C. § 2919.26
Violation of protection order or consent agreement, factors to consider, bail,
see R.C. § 2919.251
§ 135.17 HAZING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section, HAZING means doing any act or coercing
another, including the victim, to do any act of initiation into any student or
other organization that causes or creates a substantial risk of causing mental
or physical harm to any person.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall recklessly participate in the hazing of another.
      (2)   No administrator, employee, or faculty member of any primary,
secondary, or post-secondary school or of any other educational institution,
public or private, shall recklessly permit the hazing of any person.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of hazing, a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2903.31)
Statutory reference:
Civil liability for hazing, see R.C. § 2307.44
§ 135.18 CONTRIBUTING TO UNRULINESS OR DELINQUENCY OF A CHILD.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      DELINQUENT CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2152.02.
      UNRULY CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.022.
   (B)   No person, including a parent, guardian, or other custodian of a
child, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage, or contribute to a child or a
ward of the juvenile court becoming an unruly child or a delinquent child;
      (2)   Act in a way tending to cause a child or a ward of the juvenile
court to become an unruly child or a delinquent child;
      (3)   Act in a way that contributes to an adjudication of the child as a
delinquent child based on the child’s violation of a court order adjudicating
the child an unruly child for being an habitual truant;
      (4)   If the person is the parent, guardian, or custodian of a child who
has the duties under R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950 to register, register a new
residence address, and periodically verify a residence address, and, if
applicable, to send a notice of intent to reside, and if the child is not
emancipated, as defined in R.C. § 2919.121, fail to ensure that the child
complies with those duties under R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of contributing to the
unruliness or delinquency of a child, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each
day of violation of this section is a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2919.24) (Rev. 2018)
Statutory reference:
Failure to send child to school, see R.C. § 3321.38
§ 135.19 FAILURE TO PROVIDE FOR FUNCTIONALLY IMPAIRED PERSON.
   (A)   No caretaker shall knowingly fail to provide a functionally impaired
person under his or her care with any treatment, care, goods, or service that
is necessary to maintain the health or safety of the functionally impaired
person when this failure results in physical harm or serious physical harm to
the functionally impaired person.
   (B)   No caretaker shall recklessly fail to provide a functionally impaired
person under his or her care with any treatment, care, goods, or service that
is necessary to maintain the health or safety of the functionally impaired
person when this failure results in serious physical harm to the functionally
impaired person.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
knowingly failing to provide for a functionally impaired person, a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the functionally impaired person under the offender’s
care suffers serious physical harm as a result of the violation of this
section, a violation of division (A) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
recklessly failing to provide for a functionally impaired person, a misdemeanor
of the second degree. If the functionally impaired person under the offender’s
care suffers serious physical harm as a result of the violation of this
section, a violation of division (B) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.16)
   (D)   As used in this section:
      CARETAKER. Means a person who assumes the duty to provide for the care
and protection of a functionally impaired person on a voluntary basis, by
contract, through receipt of payment for care and protection, as a result of a
family relationship, or by order of a court of competent jurisdiction. The term
does not include a person who owns, operates, or administers, or who is an
agent or employee of, a care facility, as defined in R.C. § 2903.33.
      FUNCTIONALLY IMPAIRED PERSON. Means any person who has a physical or
mental impairment that prevents the person from providing for his or her own
care or protection or whose infirmities caused by aging prevent the person from
providing for his or her own care or protection.
(R.C. § 2903.10) (Rev. 2002)
§ 135.20 PATIENT ABUSE OR NEGLECT; PATIENT ENDANGERMENT; EXCEPTIONS; FALSE
STATEMENTS; RETALIATION.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      ABUSE. Means knowingly causing physical harm or recklessly causing
serious physical harm to a person by physical contact with the person or by the
inappropriate use of a physical or chemical restraint, medication or isolation
on the person.
      CARE FACILITY. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any “home” as defined in R.C. § 3721.10.
         (b)   Any “residential facility” as defined in R.C. § 5119.34 or
5123.19.
         (c)   Any institution or facility operated or provided by the
Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services or by the Department of
Developmental Disabilities pursuant to R.C. §§ 5119.14 and 5123.03.
         (d)   Any unit of any hospital, as defined in R.C. § 3701.01, that
provided the same services as a nursing home, as defined in R.C. § 3721.01.
         (e)   Any institution, residence or facility that provides, for a
period of more than 24 hours, whether for consideration or not, accommodations
to one individual or two unrelated individuals who are dependent upon the
services of others.
      GROSS NEGLECT. Means knowingly failing to provide a person with any
treatment, care, goods or service that is necessary to maintain the health or
safety of the person when the failure results in serious physical harm to the
person.
      INAPPROPRIATE USE OF A PHYSICAL OR CHEMICAL RESTRAINT, MEDICATION OR
ISOLATION. Means the use of physical or chemical restraint, medication or
isolation as punishment, for staff convenience, excessively, as a substitute
for treatment, or in quantities that preclude habilitation and treatment.
      NEGLECT. Means recklessly failing to provide a person with any treatment,
care, goods or service that is necessary to maintain the health or safety of
the person when the failure results in serious physical harm to the person.
(R.C. § 2903.33) (Rev. 2014)
   (B)   Patient abuse or neglect; spiritual treatment; defense.
      (1)   No person who owns, operates, or administers, or who is an agent or
employee of a care facility shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Commit abuse against a resident or patient of the facility.
         (b)   Commit gross neglect against a resident or patient of the
facility.
         (c)   Commit neglect against a resident or patient of the facility.
      (2)   (a)   A person who relies upon treatment by spiritual means through
prayer alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious
denomination, shall not be considered neglectful under division (B)(1)(c) of
this section for that reason alone.
         (b)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of gross neglect or
neglect under this section that the actor’s conduct was committed in good faith
solely because the actor was ordered to commit the conduct by a person with
supervisory authority over the actor.
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(a) is guilty of patient
abuse, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(b) is guilty of gross patient
neglect, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of, or pleaded guilty to, any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, gross patient
neglect is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(c) is guilty of patient
neglect, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of, or pleaded guilty to, any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, gross patient
neglect is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.34)
   (C)   Patient endangerment; spiritual treatment; defense.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES CARETAKER. Means any developmental
disabilities employee or any person who assumes the duty to provide for the
care and protection of a person with a developmental disability on a voluntary
basis, by contract, through receipt of payment for care and protection, as a
result of a family relationship, or by order of a court of competent
jurisdiction. The phrase includes a person who is an employee of a care
facility and a person who is an employee of an entity under contract with a
provider. The phrase does not include a person who owns, operates, or
administers a care facility or who is an agent of a care facility unless that
person also personally provides care to a person with a developmental
disability.
         DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5123.50.
         DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5123.01.
      (2)   No developmental disabilities caretaker shall create a substantial
risk to the health or safety of a person with a developmental disability. A
developmental disabilities caretaker does not create a substantial risk to the
health or safety of a person with a developmental disability under this
division when the developmental disabilities caretaker treats a physical or
mental illness or defect of the person with a developmental disability by
spiritual means through prayer alone, in accordance with the tenets of a
recognized religious body.
      (3)   No person who owns, operates, or administers a care facility or who
is an agent of a care facility shall condone, or knowingly permit, any conduct
by a developmental disabilities caretaker who is employed by or under the
control of the owner, operator, administrator, or agent that is in violation of
division (C)(2) of this section and that involves a person with a developmental
disability who is under the care of the owner, operator, administrator, or
agent. A person who relies upon treatment by spiritual means through prayer
alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious denomination,
shall not be considered endangered under this division for that reason alone.
      (4)   (a)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(2) or (C)(3) of this section that the actor’s conduct was
committed in good faith solely because the actor was ordered to commit the
conduct by a person to whom one of the following applies:
            1.   The person has supervisory authority over the actor.
            2.   The person has authority over the actor’s conduct pursuant to
a contract for the provision of services.
         (b)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(3) of this section that the person who owns, operates, or
administers a care facility or who is an agent of a care facility and who is
charged with the violation is following the individual service plan for the
involved person with a developmental disability or that the admission,
discharge, and transfer rule set forth in the Ohio Administrative Code is being
followed.
         (c)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(3) of this section that the actor did not have readily available a
means to prevent either the harm to the person with a developmental disability
or the death of such a person and the actor took reasonable steps to summon
aid.
      (5)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(5)(b) or (C)(5)(c) of this
section, whoever violates division (C)(2) or (C)(3) of this section is guilty
of patient endangerment, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of, or pleaded
guilty to, a violation of this section, patient endangerment is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the person
with a developmental disability, patient endangerment is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.341) (Rev. 2017)
   (D)   False statements.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement, or knowingly
swear or affirm the truth of a false statement previously made, alleging a
violation of division (B) of this section when the statement is made with
purpose to incriminate another.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (D) is guilty of filing a false
patient abuse or neglect complaint, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2903.35)
   (E)   Retaliation against person reporting patient abuse or neglect. No care
facility shall discharge or in any manner discriminate or retaliate against any
person solely because such person, in good faith, filed a complaint, affidavit,
or other document alleging a violation of division (B) of this section or a
violation of R.C. § 2903.34.
(R.C. § 2903.36)
Statutory reference:
License revocation for felony violations, see R.C. § 2903.37
§ 135.21 INTERFERENCE WITH RIGHT OF PERSON TO ENGAGE IN HOUSING TRANSACTIONS
BECAUSE OF RACE, RELIGION, OR THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person, whether or not acting under color of law, shall by force or
threat of force willfully injure, intimidate, or interfere with, or attempt to
injure, intimidate, or interfere with any of the following:
      (1)   Any person because of race, color, religion, sex, familial status,
as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin, military status as defined in
that section, disability as defined in that section, or ancestry and because
that person is or has been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying,
contracting, or negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or
occupation of any housing accommodations, or applying for or participating in
any service, organization, or facility relating to the business of selling or
renting housing accommodations.
      (2)   Any person because that person is or has been doing, or in order to
intimidate that person or any other person or any class of persons from doing
either of the following:
         (a)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, familial status, as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin,
military status as defined in that section, disability as defined in that
section, or ancestry, in any of the activities, services, organizations, or
facilities described in division (A)(1) of this section;
         (b)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
      (3)   Any person because that person is or has been, or in order to
discourage that person or any other person from, lawfully aiding or encouraging
other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, familial status as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin,
military status as defined in that section, disability as defined in that
section, or ancestry, in any of the activities, services, organizations, or
facilities described in division (A)(1) of this section, or participating
lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity
to so participate.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2927.03) (Rev. 2009)
§ 135.22 ETHNIC INTIMIDATION.
   (A)   No person shall violate R.C. § 2903.21, 2903.22, 2909.06, or 2909.07,
or R.C. § 2917.21(A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5), by reason of the race, color,
religion, or national origin of another person or group of persons.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of ethnic intimidation. Ethnic
intimidation is an offense of the next higher degree than the offense the
commission of which is a necessary element of ethnic intimidation. In the case
of an offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree, ethnic intimidation is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.12) (Rev. 2002)
§ 135.23 VIOLATING A PROTECTION ORDER, CONSENT AGREEMENT, ANTI-STALKING
PROTECTION ORDER OR ORDER ISSUED BY A COURT OF ANOTHER STATE.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly violate the terms of any of the following:
      (1)   A protection order issued or consent agreement approved pursuant to
R.C. § 2919.26 or R.C. § 3113.31;
      (2)   A protection order issued pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34, 2903.213 or
2903.214;
      (3)   A protection order issued by a court of another state.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of violating a
protection order.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3) or (B)(4) of this
section, violating a protection order is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   Violating a protection order is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the offender previously has been convicted of, pleaded
guilty to, or been adjudicated a delinquent child for any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of a protection order issued or consent agreement
approved pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34, 2903.213, 2903.214, 2919.26, or 3113.31,
or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance;
         (b)   Two or more violations of R.C. § 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22, or
2911.211, or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or
any combination of those offenses, that involved the same person who is the
subject of the protection order or consent agreement;
         (c)   One or more violations of this section, or any substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance.
      (4)   If the offender violates a protection order or consent agreement
while committing a felony offense, violating a protection order is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   If the protection order violated by the offender was an order
issued pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34 or 2903.214 that required electronic
monitoring of the offender pursuant to that section, the court may require in
addition to any other sentence imposed upon the offender that the offender be
electronically monitored for a period not exceeding five years by a law
enforcement agency designated by the court. If the court requires under this
division that the offender be electronically monitored, unless the court
determines that the offender is indigent, the court shall order that the
offender pay the costs of the installation of the electronic monitoring device
and the cost of monitoring the electronic monitoring device. If the court
determines that the offender is indigent and subject to the maximum amount
allowable and the rules promulgated by the Attorney General under R.C. §
2903.214, the costs of the installation of the electronic monitoring device and
the cost of monitoring the electronic monitoring device may be paid out of
funds from the Reparations Fund created pursuant to R.C. § 2743.191. The total
amount paid from the Reparations Fund created pursuant to R.C. § 2743.191 for
electronic monitoring under R.C. §§ 2151.34, 2903.214 and 2919.27 shall not
exceed $300,000 per year.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3) of this
section that the protection order issued by a court of another state does not
comply with the requirements specified in 18 U.S.C. § 2265(b) for a protection
order that must be accorded full faith and credit by a court of this state or
that it is not entitled to full faith and credit under 18 U.S.C. § 2265(c).
   (D)   In a prosecution for a violation of this section, it is not necessary
for the prosecution to prove that the protection order or consent agreement was
served on the defendant if the prosecution proves that the defendant was shown
the protection order or consent agreement or a copy of either or a judge,
magistrate, or law enforcement officer informed the defendant that a protection
order or consent agreement had been issued, and proves that the defendant
recklessly violated the terms of the order or agreement.
   (E)   As used in this section, PROTECTION ORDER ISSUED BY A COURT OF ANOTHER
STATE means an injunction or another order issued by a criminal court of
another state for the purpose of preventing violent or threatening acts or
harassment against, contact or communication with, or physical proximity to
another person including a temporary order, and means an injunction or order of
that nature issued by a civil court of another state, including a temporary
order and a final order issued in an independent action or as a pendente lite
order in a proceeding for other relief, if the court issued it in response to a
complaint, petition or motion filed by or on behalf of a person seeking
protection. The term does not include an order for support or for custody of a
child issued pursuant to the divorce and child custody laws of another state,
except to the extent that the order for support or for custody of a child is
entitled to full faith and credit under the laws of the United States.
(R.C. § 2919.27) (Rev. 2018)
Cross-reference:
Jurisdictional limitation on Mayor regarding violations of this section, see §
33.01(E)
§ 135.24 ADULTERATION OF FOOD.
   (A)   No person shall do either of the following, knowing or having
reasonable cause to believe that any person may suffer physical harm or be
seriously inconvenienced or annoyed thereby:
      (1)   Place a pin, razor blade, glass, laxative, drug of abuse, or other
harmful or hazardous object or substance in any food or confection.
      (2)   Furnish to any person any food or confection which has been
adulterated in violation of division (A)(1) of this section.
(R.C. § 3716.11)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 3716.99(C)) (Rev. 1997)
Statutory reference:
Adulteration of food generally, see R.C. § 3715.59
§ 135.25 ILLEGAL DISTRIBUTION OF CIGARETTES, OTHER TOBACCO PRODUCTS, OR
ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS; TRANSACTION SCANS.
   (A)   Illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         AGE VERIFICATION. A service provided by an independent third party
(other than a manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers
used to roll cigarettes) that compares information available from a
commercially available database, or aggregate of databases, that regularly are
used by government and businesses for the purpose of age and identity
verification to personal information provided during an internet sale or other
remote method of sale to establish that the purchaser is 21 years of age or
older.
         ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT.
            1.   Subject to division 2. of this definition, an electronic
smoking device, vapor product, or any other product or device that consists of
or contains nicotine that can be ingested into the body by any means,
including, but not limited to, chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, or
inhaling.
            2.   The phrase does not include any of the following:
               a.   Any cigarette or other tobacco product;
               b.   Any product that is a “drug” as that term is defined in 21
U.S.C. § 321(g)(1);
               c.   Any product that is a “device” as that term is defined in
21 U.S.C. § 321(h);
               d.   Any product that is a “combination product” as described in
21 U.S.C. § 353(g).
         CIGARETTE. Includes clove cigarettes and hand-rolled cigarettes.
         DISTRIBUTE. Means to furnish, give, or provide cigarettes, other
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes to the ultimate consumer of the cigarettes, other tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes.
         ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE. Means any device that can be used to
deliver aerosolized or vaporized nicotine or any other substance to the person
inhaling from the device including an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic hookah, vaping pen, or electronic pipe. The phrase includes any
component, part, or accessory of such a device, whether or not sold separately,
and includes any substance intended to be aerosolized or vaporized during the
use of the device. The phrase does not include any product that is a drug,
device, or combination product, as those terms are defined or described in 21
U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353(g).
         PROOF OF AGE. Means a driver’s license, a commercial driver’s license,
a military identification card, a passport, or an identification card issued
under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52 that shows that a person is 18 years of age or
older.
         TOBACCO PRODUCT. Means any product that is made or derived from
tobacco or that contains any form of nicotine, if it is intended for human
consumption or is likely to be consumed, whether smoked, heated, chewed,
absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, or ingested by any other means, including, but
not limited to, a cigarette, an electronic smoking device, a cigar, pipe
tobacco, chewing tobacco, snuff, or snus. The phrase also means any component
or accessory used in the consumption of a tobacco product, such as filters,
rolling papers, pipes, blunt or hemp wraps, and liquids used in electronic
smoking devices, whether or not they contain nicotine. The phrase does not
include any product that is a drug, device, or combination product, as those
terms are defined or described in 21 U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353(g).
         VAPOR PRODUCT. Means a product, other than a cigarette or other
tobacco product as defined in R.C. Chapter 5743, that contains or is made or
derived from nicotine and that is intended and marketed for human consumption,
including by smoking, inhaling, snorting, or sniffing. The phrase includes any
component, part, or additive that is intended for use in an electronic smoking
device, a mechanical heating element, battery, or electronic circuit and is
used to deliver the product. The phrase does not include any product that is a
drug, device, or combination product, as those terms are defined or described
in 21 U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353(g). The phrase includes any product containing
nicotine, regardless of concentration.
         VENDING MACHINE. Has the same meaning as “coin machine” in R.C. §
2913.01.
      (2)   No manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers
used to roll cigarettes, no agent, employee, or representative of a
manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of cigarettes,
other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes, and no other person shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Give, sell, or otherwise distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes to
any person under 21 years of age;
         (b)   Give away, sell, or distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes in
any place that does not have posted in a conspicuous place a legibly printed
sign in letters at least one-half inch high stating that giving, selling, or
otherwise distributing cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or papers used to roll cigarettes to a person under 21 years of age
is prohibited by law;
         (c)   Knowingly furnish any false information regarding the name, age,
or other identification of any person under 21 years of age with purpose to
obtain cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or
papers used to roll cigarettes for that person;
         (d)   Manufacture, sell, or distribute in this state any pack or other
container of cigarettes containing fewer than 20 cigarettes or any package of
roll-your-own tobacco containing less than six-tenths of one ounce of tobacco;
         (e)   Sell cigarettes or alternative nicotine products in a smaller
quantity than that placed in the pack or other container by the manufacturer;
         (f)   Give, sell, or otherwise distribute alternative nicotine
products, papers used to roll cigarettes, or tobacco products other than
cigarettes over the internet or through another remote method without age
verification.
      (3)   No person shall sell or offer to sell cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products by or from a vending machine, except
in the following locations:
         (a)   An area within a factory, business, office, or other place not
open to the general public;
         (b)   An area to which persons under 21 years of age are not generally
permitted access;
         (c)   Any other place not identified in division (A)(3)(a) or (A)(3)
(b) of this section, upon all of the following conditions:
            1.   The vending machine is located within the immediate vicinity,
plain view, and control of the person who owns or operates the place, or an
employee of that person, so that all cigarettes, other tobacco product, and
alternative nicotine product purchases from the vending machine will be readily
observed by the person who owns or operates the place or an employee of that
person. For the purpose of this section, a vending machine located in any
unmonitored area, including an unmonitored coatroom, restroom, hallway, or
outer waiting area, shall not be considered located within the immediate
vicinity, plain view, and control of the person who owns or operates the place,
or an employee of that person.
            2.   The vending machine is inaccessible to the public when the
place is closed.
            3.   A clearly visible notice is posted in the area where the
vending machine is located that states the following in letters that are
legibly printed and at least one-half inch high: “It is illegal for any person
under the age of 21 to purchase tobacco or alternative nicotine products.”
      (4)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under division
(A)(2)(a) of this section:
         (a)   The person under 21 years of age was accompanied by a parent,
spouse who is 21 years of age or older, or legal guardian of the person under
21 years of age.
         (b)   The person who gave, sold, or distributed cigarettes, other
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes to a person under 21 years of age under division (A)(2)(a) of this
section is a parent, spouse who is 21 years of age or older, or legal guardian
of the person under 21 years of age.
      (5)   It is not a violation of division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this
section for a person to give or otherwise distribute to a person under 21 years
of age cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or
papers used to roll cigarettes while the person under 21 years of age is
participating in a research protocol if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The parent, guardian, or legal custodian of the person under 21
years of age has consented in writing to the person under 21 years of age
participating in the research protocol.
         (b)   An institutional human subjects protection review board, or an
equivalent entity, has approved the research protocol.
         (c)   The person under 21 years of age is participating in the
research protocol at the facility or location specified in the research
protocol.
      (6)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(a), (A)(2)(b), (A)(2)(d),
(A)(2)(e), or (A)(2)(f) or (A)(3) of this section is guilty of illegal
distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products. Except as otherwise provided in this division, illegal distribution
of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (A)(2)(a), (A)(2)(b), (A)(2)(d), (A)(2)(e), or (A)
(2)(f) or (A)(3) of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products is a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(c) of this section is guilty of
permitting a person under 21 years of age to use cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products. Except as otherwise provided in
this division, permitting a person under 21 years of age to use cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation
of division (A)(2)(c) of this section or a substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, permitting a person under 21 years of age to use
cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (7)   Any cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or papers used to roll cigarettes that are given, sold, or otherwise
distributed to a person under 21 years of age in violation of this section and
that are used, possessed, purchased, or received by a person under 21 years of
age in violation of R.C. § 2151.87 are subject to seizure and forfeiture as
contraband under R.C. Chapter 2981.
(R.C. § 2927.02) (Rev. 2020)
   (B)   Transaction scan.
      (1)   As used in this division and division (C) of this section:
         CARD HOLDER. Means any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a seller, or an agent or employee
of a seller, to purchase or receive cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products from a seller, agent, or employee.
         IDENTIFICATION CARD. Means an identification card issued under R.C. §§
4507.50 through 4507.52.
         SELLER. Means a seller of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products and includes any person whose gift of or other
distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products is subject to the prohibitions of division (A) of this section.
         TRANSACTION SCAN. Means the process by which a seller or an agent or
employee of a seller checks, by means of a transaction scan device, the
validity of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card
that is presented as a condition for purchasing or receiving cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products.
         TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Means any commercial device or combination of
devices used at a point of sale that is capable of deciphering in an
electronically readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or
bar code of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification
card.
      (2)   (a)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may perform a
transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the validity of
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a
card holder as a condition for selling, giving away, or otherwise distributing
to the card holder cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products.
         (b)   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (B)(2)(a) of this section fails to match the information printed
on the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information
so printed is false or fraudulent, neither the seller nor any agent or employee
of the seller shall sell, give away, or otherwise distribute any cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products to the card holder.
         (c)   Division (B)(2)(a) of this section does not preclude a seller or
an agent or employee of a seller from using a transaction scan device to check
the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or identification card, if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip
that may be scanned by the device, as a condition for selling, giving away, or
otherwise distributing cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative
nicotine products to the person presenting the document.
      (3)   Rules adopted by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. §
4301.61(C) apply to the use of transaction scan devices for purposes of this
division (B) and division (C) of this section.
      (4)   (a)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except for the following:
            1.   The name and date of birth of the person listed on the
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the
card holder;
            2.   The expiration date and identification number of the driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the card
holder.
         (b)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use the
information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to be
recorded and maintained under division (B)(4)(a) of this section, except for
purposes of division (C) of this section.
         (c)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use a
transaction scan device for a purpose other than the purpose specified in
division (C)(2)(a) of this section.
         (d)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall sell or
otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising, or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by division (C) of this section
or another section of this code or the Ohio Revised Code.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (B) or division (C) of this section
relieves a seller or an agent or employee of a seller of any responsibility to
comply with any other applicable local, state or federal laws or rules
governing the sale, giving away, or other distribution of cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (B)(2)(b) or (B)(4) of this section is
guilty of engaging in an illegal tobacco product or alternative nicotine
product transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender a civil
penalty of up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the Court shall pay
each collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into the
County Treasury.
(R.C. § 2927.021) (Rev. 2015)
   (C)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may not be found
guilty of a charge of a violation of division (A) of this section in which the
age of the purchaser or other recipient of cigarettes, other tobacco products,
or alternative nicotine products is an element of the alleged violation, if the
seller, agent, or employee raises and proves as an affirmative defense that all
of the following occurred:
         (a)   A card holder attempting to purchase or receive cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products presented a driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or an identification card.
         (b)   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that
the license or card was valid.
         (c)   The cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products were sold, given away, or otherwise distributed to the card holder in
reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and the completed
transaction scan.
      (2)   In determining whether a seller or an agent or employee of a seller
has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (C)(1) of this section,
the trier of fact in the action for the alleged violation of division (A) of
this section shall consider any written policy that the seller has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of division (A) of this
section. For purposes of division (C)(1)(c) of this section, the trier of fact
shall consider that reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan may require a seller or an agent or employee of
a seller to exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a
transaction scan device does not excuse a seller or an agent or employee of a
seller from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
         (a)   Whether a person to whom the seller or agent or employee of a
seller sells, gives away, or otherwise distributes cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products is 21 years of age or older;
         (b)   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
      (3)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by
division (C)(1) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a
deputy registrar who issued an identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50
through 4507.52 shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of
that issuance in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles in the action.
(R.C. § 2927.022) (Rev. 2020)
   (D)   Shipment of tobacco products.
      (1)   As used in this division (D):
         AUTHORIZED RECIPIENT OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS means a person who is:
            1.   Licensed as a cigarette wholesale dealer under R.C. § 5743.15;
            2.   Licensed as a retail dealer as long as the person purchases
cigarettes with the appropriate tax stamp affixed;
            3.   An export warehouse proprietor as defined in Section 5702 of
the Internal Revenue Code;
            4.   An operator of a customs bonded warehouse under 19 U.S.C. §
1311 or 19 U.S.C. § 1555;
            5.   An officer, employee, or agent of the federal government or of
this state acting in the person’s official capacity;
            6.   A department, agency, instrumentality, or political
subdivision of the federal government or of this state;
            7.   A person having a consent for consumer shipment issued by the
Tax Commissioner under R.C. § 5743.71.
         MOTOR CARRIER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4923.01.
      (2)   The purpose of this division (D) is to prevent the sale of
cigarettes to minors and to ensure compliance with the Master Settlement
Agreement, as defined in R.C. § 1346.01.
      (3)   (a)   No person shall cause to be shipped any cigarettes to any
person in this municipality other than an authorized recipient of tobacco
products.
         (b)   No motor carrier or other person shall knowingly transport
cigarettes to any person in this municipality that the carrier or other person
reasonably believes is not an authorized recipient of tobacco products. If
cigarettes are transported to a home or residence, it shall be presumed that
the motor carrier or other person knew that the person to whom the cigarettes
were delivered was not an authorized recipient of tobacco products.
      (4)   No person engaged in the business of selling cigarettes who ships
or causes to be shipped cigarettes to any person in this municipality in any
container or wrapping other than the original container or wrapping of the
cigarettes shall fail to plainly and visibly mark the exterior of the container
or wrapping in which the cigarettes are shipped with the words “cigarettes”.
      (5)   A court shall impose a fine of up to $1,000 for each violation of
division (D)(3)(a), (D)(3)(b) or (D)(4) of this section.
(R.C. § 2927.023) (Rev. 2013)
   (E)   Furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products.
      (1)   No person who is 18 years of age or older but younger than 21 years
of age shall knowingly furnish false information concerning that person’s name,
age, or other identification for the purpose of obtaining tobacco products.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (E)(1) of this section is guilty of
furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, furnishing false information to obtain tobacco
products is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E)(1) of this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
(R.C. § 2927.024) (Rev. 2020)
§ 135.26 NONSMOKING AREAS IN PLACES OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY.
   (A)   As used in this section, PLACE OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY means:
      (1)   Enclosed theaters, except the lobby; opera houses; auditoriums;
classrooms; elevators; rooms in which persons are confined as a matter of
health care, including but not limited to a hospital room and a room in a
residential care facility serving as the residence of a person living in such
residential care facility.
      (2)   All buildings and other enclosed structures owned by the state, its
agencies, or political subdivisions, including but not limited to hospitals and
state institutions for the mentally ill and persons with intellectual
disabilities; university and college buildings, except rooms within those
buildings used primarily as the residences of students or other persons
affiliated with the university or college; office buildings; libraries;
museums; and vehicles used in public transportation. That portion of a building
or other enclosed structure that is owned by the state, a state agency, or a
political subdivision, and that is used primarily as a food service
establishment, is not a place of public assembly.
      (3)   Each portion of a building or enclosed structure that is not
included in division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is a place of public
assembly if it has a seating capacity of 50 or more persons and is available to
the public. Restaurants, food service establishments, dining rooms, cafes,
cafeterias, or other rooms used primarily for the service of food, as well as
bowling alleys and places licensed by the Ohio Division of Liquor Control to
sell intoxicating beverages for consumption on the premises, are not places of
public assembly.
   (B)   For the purpose of separating persons who smoke from persons who do
not smoke for the comfort and health of persons not smoking, in every place of
public assembly there shall be an area where smoking is not permitted, which
shall be designated a no smoking area, provided that not more than one-half of
the rooms in any health care facility in which persons are confined as a matter
of health care may be designated as smoking areas in their entirety. The
designation shall be made before the place of public assembly is made available
to the public. In places included in division (A)(1) of this section, the local
fire authority having jurisdiction shall designate the no smoking area. In
places included in division (A)(2) of this section that are owned by the state
or its agencies, the Ohio Director of Administrative Services shall designate
the area, and if the place is owned by a political subdivision, its Legislative
Authority shall designate an officer who shall designate the area. In places
included in division (A)(3) of this section, the person having control of the
operations of the place of public assembly shall designate the no smoking area.
In places included in division (A)(2) of this section which are also included
in division (A)(1) of this section, the officer who has authority to designate
the area in places in division (A)(2) of this section shall designate the no
smoking area. A no smoking area may include the entire place of public
assembly. Designations shall be made by the placement of signs that are clearly
visible and that state “no smoking”. No person shall remove signs from areas
designated as no smoking areas.
   (C)   This section does not affect or modify the prohibition contained in
R.C. § 3313.751(B).
   (D)   No person shall smoke in any area designated as a no smoking area in
accordance with division (B) of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3791.031) (Rev. 2017)
§ 135.27 SPREADING CONTAGION.
   (A)   No person, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that he or
she is suffering from a dangerous, contagious disease, shall knowingly fail to
take reasonable measures to prevent exposing himself or herself to other
persons, except when seeking medical aid.
   (B)   No person, having charge or care of a person whom he or she knows or
has reasonable cause to believe is suffering from a dangerous, contagious
disease, shall recklessly fail to take reasonable measures to protect others
from exposure to the contagion, and to inform health authorities of the
existence of the contagion.
   (C)   No person, having charge of a public conveyance or place of public
accommodation, amusement, resort, or trade, and knowing or having reasonable
cause to believe that persons using such conveyance or place have been or are
being exposed to a dangerous, contagious disease, shall negligently fail to
take reasonable measures to protect the public from exposure to the contagion,
and to inform health authorities of the existence of the contagion.
(R.C. § 3701.81)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second
degree.
(R.C. § 3701.99(C)) (Rev. 2005)
Statutory reference:
Contagion and quarantine, see R.C. §§ 3707.04 et seq.
Power to prevent contagious diseases, see R.C. § 715.37
§ 135.28 ABUSE OF A CORPSE.
   (A)   No person, except as authorized by law, shall treat a human corpse in
a way that he or she knows would outrage reasonable family sensibilities.
   (B)   No person, except as authorized by law, shall treat a human corpse in
a way that would outrage reasonable community sensibilities.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of abuse of a
corpse, a misdemeanor of the second degree. Whoever violates division (B) of
this section is guilty of gross abuse of a corpse, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.01)
CHAPTER 136: OFFENSES AGAINST JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
136.01   Definitions
   
136.02   Falsification
   
136.03   Compounding a crime
   
136.04   Failure to report a crime
   
136.05   Failure to aid a law enforcement officer
   
136.06   Obstructing official business
   
136.07   Obstructing justice
   
136.08   Resisting arrest
   
136.09   Having an unlawful interest in a public contract
   
136.10   Soliciting or receiving improper compensation
   
136.11   Dereliction of duty
   
136.12   Interfering with civil rights
   
136.13   Illegal conveyance of prohibited items onto grounds of a detention
facility or other specified governmental facilities
   
136.14   False report of child abuse or neglect
   
136.15   Assaulting police dog or horse, or assistance dog
   
136.16   Disclosure of confidential peace officer information
   
136.17   Intimidation of crime victim or witness
   
136.18   Using sham legal process
   
136.19   Making false allegation of peace officer misconduct
   
136.20   Misuse of 9-1-1 system
   
136.21   Failure to disclose personal information
Cross-reference:
Contempt of court, see §§
33.20 et seq.
Failure to comply with order or signal of a police officer, see §
70.02
Statutory reference:
Escape from detention, see R.C. § 2921.34
Harassment by inmates by causing or attempting to cause contact with blood,
semen, urine, feces or other bodily substance; knowledge of AIDS, hepatitis or
tuberculosis infection; felony offenses, see R.C. § 2921.38
§ 136.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   CONTRIBUTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   DETENTION. Arrest; confinement in any vehicle subsequent to an arrest;
confinement in any public or private facility for custody of persons charged
with or convicted of crime in this state or another state or under the laws of
the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent child or unruly child
in this state or another state or under the laws of the United States;
hospitalization, institutionalization, or confinement in any public or private
facility that is ordered pursuant to or under the authority of R.C. § 2945.37,
2945.371, 2945.38, 2945.39, 2945.40, 2945.401 or 2945.402; confinement in any
vehicle for transportation to or from any facility of any of those natures;
detention for extradition or deportation; except as provided in this division,
supervision by any employee of any facility of any of those natures that is
incidental to hospitalization, institutionalization, or confinement in the
facility but that occurs outside the facility; supervision by an employee of
the Department of Rehabilitation and Correction of a person on any type of
release from a state correctional institution; or confinement in any vehicle,
airplane, or place while being returned from outside of this state into this
state by a private person or entity pursuant to a contract entered into under
R.C. § 311.29(E) or R.C. § 5149.03(B). For a person confined in a county jail
who participates in a county jail industry program pursuant to R.C. § 5147.30,
the term includes time spent at an assigned work site and going to and from the
work site.
   DETENTION FACILITY. Any public or private place used for the confinement of
a person charged with or convicted of any crime in this state or another state
or under the laws of the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent
child or an unruly child in this state or another state or under the laws of
the United States.
   LEGISLATIVE CAMPAIGN FUND. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   OFFICIAL PROCEEDING. Any proceeding before a legislative, judicial,
administrative, or other governmental agency or official authorized to take
evidence under oath, and includes any proceeding before a referee, hearing
examiner, commissioner, notary, or other person taking testimony or a
deposition in connection with an official proceeding.
   PARTY OFFICIAL. Any person who holds an elective or appointive post in a
political party in the United States or this state, by virtue of which he or
she directs, conducts, or participates in directing or conducting party affairs
at any level of responsibility.
   POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   POLITICAL CONTRIBUTING ENTITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   POLITICAL PARTY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   PROVIDER AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
   PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Any elected or appointed officer, employee, or agent of the
state or any political subdivision thereof, whether in a temporary or permanent
capacity, and includes but is not limited to legislators, judges, and law
enforcement officers. The term does not include an employee, officer, or
governor-appointed member of the board of directors of the nonprofit
corporation formed under R.C. § 187.01.
   PUBLIC SERVANT.
      (1)   Any of the following:
         (a)   Any public official.
         (b)   Any person performing ad hoc a governmental function, including
but not limited to a juror, member of a temporary commission, master,
arbitrator, advisor, or consultant.
         (c)   A person who is a candidate for public office, whether or not he
or she is elected or appointed to the office for which he or she is a
candidate. A person is a candidate for purposes of this division if he or she
has been nominated according to law for election or appointment to public
office, or if he or she has filed a petition or petitions as required by law to
have his or her name placed on the ballot in a primary, general, or special
election, or if he or she campaigns as a write-in candidate in any primary,
general, or special election.
      (2)   The term does not include an employee, officer, or governor-
appointed member of the board of directors of the nonprofit corporation formed
under R.C. § 187.01.
   VALUABLE THING or VALUABLE BENEFIT. Includes but is not limited to a
contribution. This inclusion does not indicate or imply that a contribution was
not included in those terms before September 17, 1986.
(R.C. § 2921.01) (Rev. 2014)
§ 136.02 FALSIFICATION.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement, or knowingly swear
or affirm the truth of a false statement previously made, when any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The statement is made in any official proceeding.
      (2)   The statement is made with purpose to incriminate another.
      (3)   The statement is made with purpose to mislead a public official in
performing his or her official function.
      (4)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the payment of
unemployment compensation; Ohio Works First; prevention, retention and
contingency benefits and services; disability financial assistance; retirement
benefits or health care coverage from a state retirement system; economic
development assistance as defined in R.C. § 9.66; or other benefits
administered by a governmental agency or paid out of a public treasury.
      (5)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the issuance by a
governmental agency of a license, permit, authorization, certificate,
registration, release, or provider agreement.
      (6)   The statement is sworn or affirmed before a notary public or
another person empowered to administer oaths.
      (7)   The statement is in writing on or in connection with a report or
return that is required or authorized by law.
      (8)   The statement is in writing, and is made with purpose to induce
another to extend credit to or employ the offender, or to confer any degree,
diploma, certificate of attainment, award of excellence, or honor on the
offender, or to extend to or bestow upon the offender any other valuable
benefit or distinction, when the person to whom the statement is directed
relies upon it to his or her detriment.
      (9)   The statement is made with purpose to commit or facilitate the
commission of a theft offense.
      (10)   The statement is knowingly made to a probate court in connection
with any action, proceeding, or other matter within its jurisdiction, either
orally or in a written document, including but not limited to an application,
petition, complaint, or other pleading, or an inventory, account, or report.
      (11)   The statement is made on an account, form, record, stamp, label or
other writing that is required by law.
      (12)   The statement is made in connection with the purchase of a
firearm, as defined in R.C. § 2923.11, and in conjunction with the furnishing
to the seller of the firearm of a fictitious or altered driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit, a fictitious or altered identification card, or any
other document that contains false information about the purchaser’s identity.
      (13)   The statement is made in a document or instrument of writing that
purports to be a judgment, lien, or claim of indebtedness and is filed or
recorded with the Secretary of State, a county recorder, or the clerk of a
court of record.
      (14)   The statement is made in an application filed with a county
sheriff pursuant to R.C. § 2923.125 in order to obtain or renew a concealed
handgun license or is made in an affidavit submitted to a county sheriff to
obtain a concealed handgun license on a temporary emergency basis under R.C. §
2923.1213.
      (15)   The statement is required under R.C. § 5743.71 in connection with
the person’s purchase of cigarettes or tobacco products in a delivery sale.
   (B)   No person, in connection with the purchase of a firearm as defined in
R.C. § 2923.11, shall knowingly furnish to the seller of the firearm a
fictitious or altered driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit, a
fictitious or altered identification card, or any other document that contains
false information about the purchaser’s identity.
   (C)   No person, in an attempt to obtain a concealed handgun license under
R.C. § 2923.125, shall knowingly present to a sheriff a fictitious or altered
document that purports to be certification of the person’s competence in
handling a handgun as described in division (B)(3) of that section.
   (D)   It is no defense to a charge under division (A)(6) of this section
that the oath or affirmation was administered or taken in an irregular manner.
   (E)   If contradictory statements relating to the same fact are made by the
offender within the period of the statute of limitations for falsification, it
is not necessary for the prosecution to prove which statement was false, but
only that one or the other was false.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), (A)
(5), (A)(6), (A)(7), (A)(8), (A)(10), (A)(11), (A)(13) or (A)(15) of this
section is guilty of falsification. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, falsification is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(9) of this section is guilty of
falsification in a theft offense. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, falsification in a theft offense is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the value of the property or services stolen is $1,000 or more,
falsification in a theft offense is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(12) or (B) of this section is guilty
of falsification to purchase a firearm, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (A)(14) or (C) of this section is guilty
of falsification to obtain a concealed handgun license, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section in removal
proceedings under R.C. § 319.26, 321.37, 507.13 or 733.78 is guilty of
falsification regarding a removal proceeding, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.13) (Rev. 2016)
   (G)   (1)   No person who has knowingly failed to maintain proof of
financial responsibility in accordance with R.C. § 4509.101 shall produce any
document or present to a peace officer an electronic wireless communications
device that is displaying any text or images with the purpose to mislead a
peace officer upon the request of a peace officer for proof of financial
responsibility made in accordance with R.C. § 4509.101(D)(2).
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (G) is guilty of falsification, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4509.102) (Rev. 2016)
Statutory reference:
Civil liability for violations of this section, see R.C. § 2921.13(G)
§ 136.03 COMPOUNDING A CRIME.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly demand, accept, or agree to accept anything
of value in consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon a pending
criminal prosecution.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section when both
of the following apply:
      (1)   The pending prosecution involved is for a violation of R.C. §
2913.02, 2913.11, 2913.21(B)(2), or 2913.47, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, of which the actor under this section was the victim.
      (2)   The thing of value demanded, accepted, or agreed to be accepted, in
consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon the prosecution, did not
exceed an amount that the actor reasonably believed due him or her as
restitution for the loss caused him or her by the offense.
   (C)   When a prosecuting witness abandons or agrees to abandon a prosecution
under division (B) of this section, the abandonment or agreement in no way
binds the state to abandoning the prosecution.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of compounding a crime, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.21) (Rev. 1999)
§ 136.04 FAILURE TO REPORT A CRIME.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, no
person, knowing that a felony has been or is being committed, shall knowingly
fail to report the information to law enforcement authorities.
      (2)   No person, knowing that a violation of R.C. § 2913.04(B) has been
or is being committed or that the person has received information derived from
such a violation, shall knowingly fail to report the violation to law
enforcement authorities.
   (B)   Except for conditions that are within the scope of division (E) of
this section, no person giving aid to a sick or injured person shall
negligently fail to report to law enforcement authorities any gunshot or stab
wound treated or observed by the person, or any serious physical harm to
persons that the person knows or has reasonable cause to believe resulted from
an offense of violence.
   (C)   No person who discovers the body or acquires the first knowledge of
the death of a person shall fail to report the death immediately to a physician
or advanced practice registered nurse whom the person knows to be treating the
deceased for a condition from which death at such time would not be unexpected,
or to a law enforcement officer, an ambulance service, an emergency squad, or
the coroner in a political subdivision in which the body is discovered, the
death is believed to have occurred, or knowledge concerning the death is
obtained. For purposes of this division, “advanced practice registered nurse”
does not include a certified registered nurse anesthetist.
   (D)   No person shall fail to provide upon request of the person to whom a
report required by division (C) of this section was made, or to any law
enforcement officer who has reasonable cause to assert the authority to
investigate the circumstances surrounding the death, any facts within his or
her knowledge that may have a bearing on the investigation of the death.
   (E)   (1)   As used in this section, BURN INJURY means any of the following:
         (a)   Second or third degree burns;
         (b)   Any burns to the upper respiratory tract or laryngeal edema due
to the inhalation of super- heated air;
         (c)   Any burn injury or wound that may result in death;
         (d)   Any physical harm to persons caused by or as the result of the
use of fireworks, novelties and trick noisemakers, and wire sparklers, as each
is defined by R.C. § 3743.01.
      (2)   No physician, nurse, physician assistant, or limited practitioner
who, outside a hospital, sanitarium, or other medical facility, attends or
treats a person who has sustained a burn injury inflicted by an explosion or
other incendiary device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a
violent, malicious, or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury
immediately to the local arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the
jurisdiction in which the person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local
law enforcement authorities.
      (3)   No manager, superintendent, or other person in charge of a
hospital, sanitarium, or other medical facility in which a person is attended
or treated for any burn injury inflicted by an explosion or other incendiary
device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a violent,
malicious, or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury immediately
to the local arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the jurisdiction in
which the person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local law enforcement
authorities.
      (4)   No person who is required to report any burn injury under division
(E)(2) or (E)(3) of this section shall fail to file, within three working days
after attending or treating the victim, a written report of the burn injury
with the office of the State Fire Marshal. The report shall be made on a form
provided by the State Fire Marshal.
      (5)   Anyone participating in the making of reports under division (E) of
this section or anyone participating in a judicial proceeding resulting from
the reports is immune from any civil or criminal liability that otherwise might
be incurred or imposed as a result of such actions. Notwithstanding R.C. §
4731.22, the physician- patient relationship or advanced practice registered
nurse- patient relationship is not a ground for excluding evidence regarding a
person’s burn injury or the cause of the burn injury in any judicial proceeding
resulting from a report submitted under division (E) of this section.
   (F)   (1)   Any doctor of medicine or osteopathic medicine, hospital intern
or resident, nurse, psychologist, social worker, independent social worker,
social work assistant, licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed
professional counselor, independent marriage and family therapist, or marriage
and family therapist who knows or has reasonable cause to believe that a
patient or client has been the victim of domestic violence, as defined in R.C.
§ 3113.31, shall note that knowledge or belief and the basis for it in the
patient’s or client’s records.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 4731.22, the physician-patient privilege or
advanced practice registered nurse-patient privilege shall not be a ground for
excluding any information regarding the report containing the knowledge or
belief noted under division (F)(1) of this section, and the information may be
admitted as evidence in accordance with the Rules of Evidence.
   (G)   Division (A) or (D) of this section does not require disclosure of
information, when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The information is privileged by reason of the relationship between
attorney and client; physician and patient; advanced practice registered nurse
and patient; licensed psychologist or licensed school psychologist and client;
licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed professional counselor,
independent social worker, social worker, independent marriage and family
therapist, or marriage and family therapist and client; member of the clergy,
rabbi, minister, or priest and any person communicating information
confidentially to the member of the clergy, rabbi, minister, or priest for a
religious counseling purpose of a professional character; husband and wife; or
a communications assistant and those who are a party to a telecommunications
relay service call.
      (2)   The information would tend to incriminate a member of the actor’s
immediate family.
      (3)   Disclosure of the information would amount to revealing a news
source, privileged under R.C. § 2739.04 or 2739.12.
      (4)   Disclosure of the information would amount to disclosure by a
member of the ordained clergy of an organized religious body of a confidential
communication made to him or her in his or her capacity as such by a person
seeking his or her aid or counsel.
      (5)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of his or her duties in connection with a bona fide program
of treatment or services for drug dependent persons or persons in danger of
drug dependence, which program is maintained or conducted by a hospital,
clinic, person, agency, or community addiction services provider whose alcohol
and drug addiction services are certified pursuant to R.C. § 5119.36.
      (6)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of his or her duties in connection with a bona fide program
for providing counseling services to victims of crimes that are violations of
R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.05, or to victims of felonious sexual penetration in
violation of former R.C. § 2907.12. As used in this division, “counseling
services” include services provided in an informal setting by a person who, by
education or experience, is competent to provide such services.
   (H)   No disclosure of information pursuant to this section gives rise to
any liability or recrimination for a breach of privilege or confidence.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of
failure to report a crime. Violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Violation of division (A)(2) or (B) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (J)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of
failure to report knowledge of a death, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (K)   (1)   Whoever negligently violates division (E) of this section is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Whoever knowingly violates division (E) of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (L)   As used in this section, NURSE includes an advanced practice
registered nurse, registered nurse, and licensed practical nurse.
(R.C. § 2921.22) (Rev. 2019)
§ 136.05 FAILURE TO AID A LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall negligently fail or refuse to aid a law enforcement
officer, when called upon for assistance in preventing or halting the
commission of an offense, or in apprehending or detaining an offender, when the
aid can be given without a substantial risk of physical harm to the person
giving it.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to aid a law
enforcement officer, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2921.23)
§ 136.06 OBSTRUCTING OFFICIAL BUSINESS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so and with purpose to prevent,
obstruct, or delay the performance by a public official of any authorized act
within the public official’s official capacity, shall do any act that hampers
or impedes a public official in the performance of the public official’s lawful
duties.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing official
business. Except as otherwise provided in this division, obstructing official
business is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If a violation of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, obstructing official business is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.31) (Rev. 2000)
§ 136.07 OBSTRUCTING JUSTICE.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to hinder the discovery, apprehension,
prosecution, conviction, or punishment of another for crime, or to assist
another to benefit from the commission of a crime, and no person, with purpose
to hinder the discovery, apprehension, prosecution, adjudication as a
delinquent child, or disposition of a child for an act that if committed by an
adult would be a crime or to assist a child to benefit from the commission of
an act that if committed by an adult would be a crime, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Harbor or conceal the other person or child.
      (2)   Provide the other person or child with money, transportation, a
weapon, a disguise, or other means of avoiding discovery or apprehension.
      (3)   Warn the other person or child of impending discovery or
apprehension.
      (4)   Destroy or conceal physical evidence of the crime or act, or induce
any person to withhold testimony or information or to elude legal process
summoning him or her to testify or supply evidence.
      (5)   Communicate false information to any person.
      (6)   Prevent or obstruct any person, by means of force, intimidation, or
deception, from performing any act to aid in the discovery, apprehension, or
prosecution of the other person or child.
   (B)   A person may be prosecuted for, and may be convicted of or adjudicated
a delinquent child for committing, a violation of division (A) of this section
regardless of whether the person or child aided ultimately is apprehended for,
is charged with, is convicted of, pleads guilty to, or is adjudicated a
delinquent child for committing the crime or act the person or child aided
committed. The crime or act the person or child aided committed shall be used
under division (C) of this section in determining the penalty for violation of
division (A) of this section, regardless of whether the person or child aided
ultimately is apprehended for, is charge with, is convicted of, pleads guilty
to, or is adjudicated a delinquent child for committing the crime or act the
person or child aided committed.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing justice.
      (1)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a misdemeanor or if
the act committed by the child aided would be a misdemeanor if committed by an
adult, obstructing justice is a misdemeanor of the same degree as the crime
committed by the person aided or a misdemeanor of the same degree that the act
committed by the child aided would be if committed by an adult.
      (2)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a felony or if the
act committed by the child aided would be a felony if committed by an adult, or
if the crime or act committed by the person or child aided is an act of
terrorism, obstructing justice is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      ACT OF TERRORISM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.21.
      ADULT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.011.
      CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.011.
      DELINQUENT CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2152.02.
(R.C. § 2921.32) (Rev. 2003)
§ 136.08 RESISTING ARREST.
   (A)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of himself, herself or another.
   (B)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person and, during the course of or as a
result of the resistance or interference, cause physical harm to a law
enforcement officer.
   (C)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person if either of the following
applies:
      (1)   The offender, during the course of or as a result of the resistance
or interference, recklessly causes physical harm to a law enforcement officer
by means of a deadly weapon; or
      (2)   The offender, during the course of the resistance or interference,
brandishes a deadly weapon.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of resisting arrest. A
violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (E)   As used in this section, DEADLY WEAPON has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2923.11.
(R.C. § 2921.33) (Rev. 1999)
Statutory reference:
Unlawful taking of deadly weapon from a law enforcement officer, felony
offense, see R.C. § 2911.01
§ 136.09 HAVING AN UNLAWFUL INTEREST IN A PUBLIC CONTRACT.
   (A)   No public official shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Authorize or employ the authority of the public official’s office
to secure authorization of any public contract in which the public official, a
member of the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s
business associates has an interest.
      (2)   Authorize or employ the authority or influence of the public
official’s office to secure the investment of public funds in any share, bond,
mortgage, or other security with respect to which the public official, a member
of the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s business
associates either has an interest, is an underwriter, or receives any
brokerage, origination, or servicing fees.
      (3)   During the public official’s term of office or within one year
thereafter, occupy any position of profit in the prosecution of a public
contract authorized by the public official or by a legislative body,
commission, or board of which the public official was a member at the time of
authorization, unless the contract was let by competitive bidding to the lowest
and best bidder.
      (4)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
entered into by or for the use of the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality with which the public official is connected.
      (5)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
that is not let by competitive bidding when required by law, and that involves
more than $150.
   (B)   In the absence of bribery or a purpose to defraud, a public official,
member of a public official’s family, or any of a public official’s business
associates shall not be considered as having an interest in a public contract
or the investment of public funds, if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The interest of that person is limited to owning or controlling
shares of the corporation, or being a creditor of the corporation or other
organization, that is the contractor on the public contract involved, or that
is the issuer of the security in which public funds are invested.
      (2)   The shares owned or controlled by that person do not exceed 5% of
the outstanding shares of the corporation, and the amount due that person as
creditor does not exceed 5% of the total indebtedness of the corporation or
other organization.
      (3)   That person, prior to the time the public contract is entered into,
files with the political subdivision or governmental agency or instrumentality
involved, an affidavit giving that person’s exact status in connection with the
corporation or other organization.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a public contract in which a public
official, member of a public official’s family, or one of a public official’s
business associates has an interest, when all of the following apply:
      (1)   The subject of the public contract is necessary supplies or
services for the political subdivision or governmental agency or
instrumentality involved.
      (2)   The supplies or services are unobtainable elsewhere for the same or
lower cost, or are being furnished to the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality as part of a continuing course of dealing established
prior to the public official’s becoming associated with the political
subdivision or governmental agency or instrumentality involved.
      (3)   The treatment accorded the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality is either preferential to or the same as that
accorded other customers or clients in similar transactions.
      (4)   The entire transaction is conducted at arm’s length, with full
knowledge by the political subdivision or governmental agency or
instrumentality involved, of the interest of the public official, member of the
public official’s family, or business associate, and the public official takes
no part in the deliberations or decision of the political subdivision or
governmental agency or instrumentality with respect to the public contract.
   (D)   Division (A)(4) of this section does not prohibit participation by a
public employee in any housing program funded by public monies if the public
employee otherwise qualifies for the program and does not use the authority or
influence of the public employee’s office or employment to secure benefits from
the program and if the monies are to be used on the primary residence of the
public employee. Such participation does not constitute an unlawful interest in
a public contract in violation of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of having an unlawful interest
in a public contract. Violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. Violation of division
(A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (F)   It is not a violation of this section for a prosecuting attorney to
appoint assistants and employees in accordance with R.C. §§ 309.06 and
2921.421, or for a chief legal officer of a municipality or an official
designated as prosecutor in a municipality to appoint assistants and employees
in accordance with R.C. §§ 733.621 and 2921.421, or for a township law director
appointed under R.C. § 504.15 to appoint assistants and employees in accordance
with R.C. §§ 504.151 and 2921.421.
   (G)   Any public contract in which a public official, a member of the public
official’s family, or any of the public official’s business associates has an
interest in violation of this section is void and unenforceable. Any contract
securing the investment of public funds in which a public official, a member of
the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s business
associates has an interest, is an underwriter, or receives any brokerage,
origination or servicing fees and that was entered into in violation of this
section is void and unenforceable.
   (H)   As used in this section:
      CHIEF LEGAL OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 733.621.
      PUBLIC CONTRACT. Means any of the following:
         (a)   The purchase or acquisition, or a contract for the purchase or
acquisition, of property or services by or for the use of the state or any of
its political subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of either,
including the employment of an individual by the state, any of its political
subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of either.
         (b)   A contract for the design, construction, alteration, repair, or
maintenance of any public property.
(R.C. § 2921.42) (Rev. 2008)
Statutory reference:
Assistants and employees of Prosecutors, Law Directors, and Solicitors, see
R.C. § 2921.421
§ 136.10 SOLICITING OR RECEIVING IMPROPER COMPENSATION.
   (A)   No public servant shall knowingly solicit or accept and no person
shall knowingly promise or give to a public servant either of the following:
      (1)   Any compensation, other than as allowed by R.C. § 102.03(G), (H),
(I), or other provisions of law, to perform the public servant’s official
duties, to perform any other act or service in the public servant’s public
capacity, for the general performance of the duties of the public servant’s
public office or public employment, or as a supplement to the public servant’s
public compensation.
      (2)   Additional or greater fees or costs than are allowed by law to
perform the public servant’s official duties.
   (B)   No public servant for the public servant’s own personal or business
use and no person for the person’s own personal or business use or for the
personal or business use of a public servant or party official, shall solicit
or accept anything of value in consideration of either of the following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining, or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment, or agency.
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion, or other
material aspects of employment.
   (C)   No person for the benefit of a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee or political contributing
entity shall coerce any contribution in consideration of either of the
following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining, or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment, or agency.
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion, or other
material aspects of employment.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of soliciting improper
compensation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (E)   A public servant who is convicted of a violation of this section is
disqualified from holding any public office, employment, or position of trust
in this state for a period of seven years from the date of conviction.
   (F)   Divisions (A), (B), and (C) of this section do not prohibit any person
from making voluntary contributions to a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee or political contributing
entity or prohibit a political party, campaign committee, legislative campaign
fund, political action committee or political contributing entity from
accepting voluntary contributions.
(R.C. § 2921.43) (Rev. 2006)
§ 136.11 DERELICTION OF DUTY.
   (A)   No law enforcement officer shall negligently do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to serve a lawful warrant without delay.
      (2)   Fail to prevent or halt the commission of an offense or to
apprehend an offender, when it is in the law enforcement officer’s power to do
so alone or with available assistance.
   (B)   No law enforcement, ministerial, or judicial officer shall negligently
fail to perform a lawful duty in a criminal case or proceeding.
   (C)   No officer, having charge of a detention facility, shall negligently
do any of the following:
      (1)   Allow the detention facility to become littered or unsanitary.
      (2)   Fail to provide persons confined in the detention facility with
adequate food, clothing, bedding, shelter, and medical attention.
      (3)   Fail to control an unruly prisoner, or to prevent intimidation of
or physical harm to a prisoner by another.
      (4)   Allow a prisoner to escape.
      (5)   Fail to observe any lawful and reasonable regulation for the
management of the detention facility.
   (D)   No public official shall recklessly create a deficiency, incur a
liability, or expend a greater sum than is appropriated by the Legislative
Authority for the use in any one year of the department, agency, or institution
with which the public official is connected.
   (E)   No public servant shall recklessly fail to perform a duty expressly
imposed by law with respect to the public servant’s office, or recklessly do
any act expressly forbidden by law with respect to the public servant’s office.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of dereliction of duty, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   Except as otherwise provided by law, a public servant who is a county
treasurer; county auditor; township fiscal officer; city auditor; city
treasurer; village fiscal officer; village clerk-treasurer; village clerk; in
the case of a municipal corporation having a charter that designates an officer
who, by virtue of the charter, has duties and functions similar to those of the
city or village officers referred to in this section, the officer so designated
by the charter; school district treasurer; fiscal officer of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314; treasurer of a science, technology,
engineering, and mathematics school established under R.C. Chapter 3326; or
fiscal officer of a college-preparatory boarding school established under R.C.
Chapter 3328 and is convicted of or pleads guilty to dereliction of duty is
disqualified from holding any public office, employment, or position of trust
in this state for four years following the date of conviction or of entry of
the plea, and is not entitled to hold any public office until any repayment or
restitution required by the court is satisfied.
   (H)   As used in this section, PUBLIC SERVANT includes the following:
      (1)   An officer or employee of a contractor as defined in R.C. § 9.08;
      (2)   A fiscal officer employed by the operator of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314 or by the operator of a college-preparatory
boarding school established under R.C. Chapter 3328.
(R.C. § 2921.44) (Rev. 2016)
§ 136.12 INTERFERING WITH CIVIL RIGHTS.
   (A)   No public servant, under color of the public servant’s office,
employment, or authority, shall knowingly deprive, or conspire or attempt to
deprive any person of a constitutional or statutory right.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interfering with civil
rights, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.45) (Rev. 2022)
Statutory reference:
Restraining or confining pregnant children or pregnant women, see R.C. §
2152.75(B) and R.C. § 2901.10
§ 136.13 ILLEGAL CONVEYANCE OF PROHIBITED ITEMS ONTO GROUNDS OF A DETENTION
FACILITY OR OTHER SPECIFIED GOVERNMENTAL FACILITY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly convey, or attempt to convey, onto the
grounds of a detention facility or of an institution, office building, or other
place that is under the control of the Department of Mental Health and
Addiction Services, the Department of Developmental Disabilities, the
Department of Youth Services, or the Department of Rehabilitation and
Correction, any of the following items:
      (1)   Any deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance, as defined in R.C. §
2923.11, or any part of or ammunition for use in such deadly weapon or
dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   Any drug of abuse, as defined in R.C. § 3719.011.
      (3)   Any intoxicating liquor, as defined in R.C. § 4301.01, except for
small amounts of wine for sacramental purposes when the person engaging in the
specified conduct is a cleric, as defined in R.C. § 2317.02.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any person who conveys
or attempts to convey an item onto the grounds of a detention facility or of an
institution, office building, or other place under the control of the
Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services, the Department of
Developmental Disabilities, the Department of Youth Services, or the Department
of Rehabilitation and Correction, with written authorization of the person in
charge of the detention facility or the institution, office building, or other
place and in accordance with the written rules of the detention facility or the
institution, office building, or other place.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly deliver, or attempt to deliver, to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, to a prisoner who is temporarily released from confinement
for a work assignment, or to any patient in an institution under the control of
the Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services or the Department of
Developmental Disabilities, any item listed in division (A).
   (D)   No person shall knowingly deliver or attempt to deliver cash to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, or to a prisoner who is temporarily released from
confinement for a work assignment.
   (E)   No person shall knowingly deliver, or attempt to deliver, to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, or to a prisoner who is temporarily released from
confinement for a work assignment a cellular telephone, two-way radio, or other
electronic communications device.
   (F)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(1)
of this section that the weapon or dangerous ordnance in question was being
transported in a motor vehicle for any lawful purpose, that it was not on the
actor’s person, and if the weapon or dangerous ordnance was a firearm, that it
was unloaded and was being carried in a closed package, box or case or in a
compartment that can be reached only by leaving the vehicle.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (C) of this
section that the actor was not otherwise prohibited by law from delivering the
item to the confined person, the child, the prisoner, or the patient and that
either of the following applies:
         (a)   The actor was permitted by the written rules of the detention
facility or the institution, office building, or other place to deliver the
item to the confined person or the patient.
         (b)   The actor was given written authorization by the person in
charge of the detention facility or the institution, office building, or other
place to deliver the item to the confined person or the patient.
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any item listed in division
(A)(1) of this section is guilty of illegal conveyance of weapons onto the
grounds of a specified governmental facility, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any drug of abuse is guilty
of illegal conveyance of drugs of abuse onto the grounds of a specified
governmental facility, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(3) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any intoxicating liquor is
guilty of illegal conveyance of intoxicating liquor onto the grounds of a
specified governmental facility, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of illegal
conveyance of cash onto the grounds of a detention facility, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (D) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, illegal conveyance of cash onto
the grounds of a detention facility is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of illegal
conveyance of a communications device onto the grounds of a specified
governmental facility, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E)
of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
illegal conveyance of a communications device onto the grounds of a detention
facility is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.36) (Rev. 2022)
   (H)   The person in charge of a detention facility shall, on the grounds of
the detention facility, have the same power as a peace officer, as defined in
R.C. § 2935.01, to arrest a person who violates this section.
(R.C. § 2921.37)
Cross-reference:
Possession of an object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety
zone, see §
137.11
Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, see §
137.12
Statutory reference:
Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance on school
premises, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122
Conveyance, possession, or control of deadly weapon or dangerous ordinance in a
courthouse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.123
Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offense, see R.C. §
2923.131
§ 136.14 FALSE REPORT OF CHILD ABUSE OR NEGLECT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make or cause another person to make a false
report under R.C. § 2151.421(B) alleging that any person has committed an act
or omission that resulted in a child being an abused child as defined in R.C. §
2151.031 or a neglected child as defined in R.C. § 2151.03.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or causing a false
report of child abuse or child neglect, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.14)
§ 136.15 ASSAULTING POLICE DOG OR HORSE, OR ASSISTANCE DOG.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
a police dog or horse in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The police dog or horse is assisting a law enforcement officer in
the performance of the officer’s official duties at the time the physical harm
is caused or attempted.
      (2)   The police dog or horse is not assisting a law enforcement officer
in the performance of the officer’s official duties at the time the physical
harm is caused or attempted, but the offender has actual knowledge that the dog
or horse is a police dog or horse.
   (B)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment, or strike a police dog or horse;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at a police dog or horse;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct a police dog or horse, or interfere with
or obstruct a law enforcement officer who is being assisted by a police dog or
horse, in a manner that does any of the following:
         (a)   Inhibits or restricts the law enforcement officer’s control of
the police dog or horse;
         (b)   Deprives the law enforcement officer of control of the police
dog or horse;
         (c)   Releases the police dog or horse from its area of control;
         (d)   Enters the area of control of the police dog or horse without
the consent of the law enforcement officer, including placing food or any other
object or substance into that area;
         (e)   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the police dog or horse to
assist a law enforcement officer;
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to a police dog or horse;
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger a police dog or horse that at the time of the conduct is
assisting a law enforcement officer in the performance of the officer’s duties
or that the person knows is a police dog or horse.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
an assistance dog in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The dog is assisting or serving a blind, deaf or hearing impaired,
or mobility impaired person at the time the physical harm is caused or
attempted.
      (2)   The dog is not assisting or serving a blind, deaf or hearing
impaired, or mobility impaired person at the time the physical harm is caused
or attempted, but the offender has actual knowledge that the dog is an
assistance dog.
   (D)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment, or strike an assistance dog;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at an assistance dog;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct an assistance dog, or interfere with or
obstruct a blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility impaired person who is
being assisted or served by an assistance dog, in a manner that does any of the
following:
         (a)   Inhibits or restricts the assisted or served person’s control of
the dog;
         (b)   Deprives the assisted or served person of control of the dog;
         (c)   Releases the dog from its area of control;
         (d)   Enters the area of control of the dog without the consent of the
assisted or served person, including placing food or any other object or
substance into that area;
         (e)   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the dog to assist the
assisted or served person;
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to an assistance dog;
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger an assistance dog that at the time of the conduct is
assisting or serving a blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility impaired
person or that the person knows is an assistance dog.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
assaulting a police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, assaulting a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. If the violation results in physical harm to the police dog or horse
other than death or serious physical harm, assaulting a police dog or horse is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in serious physical
harm to the police dog or horse or results in its death, assaulting a police
dog or horse is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
harassing a police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided this division,
harassing a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the police dog or horse but does not
result in its death or in serious physical harm to it, harassing a police dog
or horse is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in
serous physical harm to the police dog or horse or results in its death,
harassing a police dog or horse is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
assaulting an assistance dog. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
assaulting an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the assistance dog other than death or
serious physical harm, assaulting an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the violation results in serious physical harm to the
assistance dog or results in its death, assaulting an assistance dog is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of
harassing an assistance dog. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
harassing an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the assistance dog but does not result in
the death or in serious physical harm to it, harassing an assistance dog is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in serious physical
harm to the assistance dog or results in its death, harassing an assistance dog
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   In addition to any other sanctions or penalty imposed for the
offense under this section, R.C. Chapter 2929 or any other provision of the
Ohio Revised Code or this code, whoever violates division (A), (B), (C), or (D)
of this section is responsible for the payment of all of the following:
         (a)   Any veterinary bill or bill for medication incurred as a result
of the violation by the Police Department regarding a violation of division (A)
or (B) of this section or by the blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility
impaired person assisted or served by the assistance dog regarding a violation
of division (C) or (D) of this section;
         (b)   The cost of any damaged equipment that results from the
violation;
         (c)   If the violation did not result in the death of the police dog
or horse or the assistance dog that was the subject of the violation and if, as
a result of that dog or horse being the subject of the violation, the dog or
horse needs further training or retraining to be able to continue in the
capacity of a police dog or horse or an assistance dog, the cost of any further
training or retraining of that dog or horse by a law enforcement officer or by
the blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility impaired person assisted or
served by the assistance dog;
         (d)   If the violation resulted in the death of the assistance dog
that was the subject of the violation or resulted in serious physical harm to
the police dog or horse or the assistance dog that was the subject of the
violation to the extent that the dog or horse needs to be replaced on either a
temporary or a permanent basis, the cost of replacing that dog or horse and of
any further training of a new police dog or horse or a new assistance dog by a
law enforcement officer or by the blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility
impaired person assisted or served by the assistance dog, which replacement or
training is required because of the death of or the serious physical harm to
the dog or horse that was the subject of the violation.
   (F)   This section does not apply to a licensed veterinarian whose conduct
is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4741.
   (G)   This section only applies to an offender who knows or should know at
the time of the violation that the police dog or horse or assistance dog that
is the subject of a violation under this section is a police dog or horse or an
assistance dog.
   (H)   As used in this section:
      ASSISTANCE DOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
      BLIND. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
      MOBILITY IMPAIRED PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
      PHYSICAL HARM. Means any injury, illness, or other psychological
impairment, regardless of its gravity or duration.
      POLICE DOG OR HORSE. Means a dog or horse that has been trained and may
be used to assist law enforcement officers in the performance of their official
duties.
      SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death.
         (b)   Any physical harm that causes permanent maiming or that involves
some temporary, substantial maiming.
         (c)   Any physical harm that causes acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering.
(R.C. § 2921.321) (Rev. 2017)
§ 136.16 DISCLOSURE OF CONFIDENTIAL PEACE OFFICER INFORMATION.
   (A)   No officer or employee of a law enforcement agency or court, or of the
clerk’s office of any court, shall disclose during the pendency of any criminal
case the home address of any peace officer, parole officer, prosecuting
attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or youth
services employee who is a witness or arresting officer in the case.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not prohibit a peace officer, parole
officer, prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional
employee, or youth services employee from disclosing the peace officer’s,
parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant prosecuting attorney’s,
correctional employee’s, or youth services employee’s own home address, and
does not apply to any person who discloses the home address of a peace officer,
parole officer, prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney,
correctional employee, or youth services employee pursuant to a court-ordered
disclosure under division (C) of this section.
   (C)   The court in which any criminal case is pending may order the
disclosure of the home address of any peace officer, parole officer,
prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or
youth services employee who is a witness or arresting officer in the case, if
the court determines after a written request for the disclosure that good cause
exists for disclosing the home address of the peace officer, parole officer,
prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or
youth services employee.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of disclosure
of confidential information, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2921.24) (Rev. 2008)
   (E)   No judge of a court of record, or Mayor presiding over a Mayor’s
Court, shall order a peace officer, parole officer, prosecuting attorney,
assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or youth services
employee who is a witness in a criminal case, to disclose the peace officer’s,
parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant prosecuting attorney’s,
correctional employee’s, or youth services employee’s home address during the
peace officer’s, parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant
prosecuting attorney’s, correctional employee’s, or youth services employee’s
examination in the case unless the judge or Mayor determines that the defendant
has a right to the disclosure.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
      CORRECTIONAL EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 149.43.
      YOUTH SERVICES EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 149.43.
(R.C. § 2921.25) (Rev. 2008)
§ 136.17 INTIMIDATION OF CRIME VICTIM OR WITNESS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly attempt to intimidate or hinder the victim
of a crime or delinquent act in the filing or prosecution of criminal charges
or a delinquent child action or proceeding, and no person shall knowingly
attempt to intimidate a witness to a criminal or delinquent act by reason of
the person being a witness to that act.
   (B)   No person, knowingly and by force or by unlawful threat of harm to any
person or property or by unlawful threat to commit any offense or calumny
against any person, shall attempt to influence, intimidate, or hinder any of
the following persons:
      (1)   The victim of a crime or delinquent act in the filing or
prosecution of criminal charges or a delinquent child action or proceeding;
      (2)   A witness to a criminal or delinquent act by reason of the person
being a witness to that act;
      (3)   An attorney by reason of the attorney’s involvement in any criminal
or delinquent child action or proceeding.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any person who is
attempting to resolve a dispute pertaining to the alleged commission of a
criminal offense, either prior to or subsequent to the filing of a complaint,
indictment, or information by participating in the arbitration, mediation,
compromise, settlement or conciliation of that dispute pursuant to an
authorization for arbitration, mediation, compromise, settlement, or
conciliation of a dispute of that nature that is conferred by any of the
following:
      (1)   A section of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (2)   The Rules of Criminal Procedure, the Rules of Superintendence for
Municipal Courts and County Courts, the Rules of Superintendence for Courts of
Common Pleas, or another rule adopted by the Ohio Supreme Court in accordance
with Ohio Constitution, Article IV, Section 5.
      (3)   A local rule of court, including but not limited to a local rule of
court that relates to alternative dispute resolution or other case management
programs and that authorizes the referral of disputes pertaining to the alleged
commission of certain types of criminal offenses to appropriate and available
arbitration, mediation, compromise, settlement or other conciliation programs.
      (4)   The order of a judge of a municipal court, county court, or court
of common pleas.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of intimidation of an
attorney, victim or witness in a criminal case. A violation of division (A) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. A violation of division (B)
of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (E)   As used in this section, WITNESS means any person who has or claims to
have knowledge concerning a fact or facts concerning a criminal or delinquent
act, whether or not criminal or delinquent child charges are actually filed.
(R.C. § 2921.04) (Rev. 2013)
Statutory reference:
Retaliation, felony offense, see R.C. § 2921.05
§ 136.18 USING SHAM LEGAL PROCESS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      LAWFULLY ISSUED. Means adopted, issued, or rendered in accordance with
the United States Constitution, the Constitution of a state, and the applicable
statutes, rules, regulations and ordinances of the United States, a state, and
the political subdivisions of a state.
      POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS. Means municipal corporations, townships,
counties, school districts, and all other bodies corporate and politic that are
organized under state law and are responsible for governmental activities only
in geographical areas smaller than that of a state.
      SHAM LEGAL PROCESS. Means an instrument that meets all of the following
conditions:
         (a)   It is not lawfully issued.
         (b)   It purports to do any of the following:
            1.   To be a summons, subpoena, judgment, or order of a court, a
law enforcement officer, or a legislative, executive or administrative body.
            2.   To assert jurisdiction over or determine the legal or
equitable status, rights, duties, powers, or privileges of any person or
property.
            3.   To require or authorize the search, seizure, indictment,
arrest, trial, or sentencing of any person or property.
         (c)   It is designed to make another person believe that it is
lawfully issued.
      STATE. Means a state of the United States, including without limitation
the state legislature, the highest court of the state that has statewide
jurisdiction, the offices of all elected state officers, and all departments,
boards, offices, commissions, agencies, institutions, and other
instrumentalities of the state. The term does not include the political
subdivisions of the state.
   (B)   No person shall, knowing the sham legal process to be a sham legal
process, do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly issue, display, deliver, distribute, or otherwise use
sham legal process.
      (2)   Knowingly use sham legal process to arrest, detain, search or seize
any person or the property of another person.
      (3)   Knowingly commit or facilitate the commission of an offense using
sham legal process.
      (4)   Knowingly commit a felony by using sham legal process.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(1) or (B)
(2) of this section that the use of sham legal process was for a lawful
purpose.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of using sham legal process. A
violation of division (B)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. A violation of division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree, except that if the purpose of a violation of
division (B)(3) of this section is to commit or facilitate the commission of a
felony, a violation of division (B)(3) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division (B)(4) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.52(A) - (D)) (Rev. 1997)
Statutory reference:
Civil liability, see R.C. § 2921.52(E)
§ 136.19 MAKING FALSE ALLEGATION OF PEACE OFFICER MISCONDUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section, PEACE OFFICER has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2935.01.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly file a complaint against a peace officer
that alleges that the peace officer engaged in misconduct in the performance of
the officer’s duties if the person knows that the allegation is false.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of making a
false allegation of peace officer misconduct, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2921.15) (Rev. 2001)
§ 136.20 MISUSE OF 9-1-1 SYSTEM.
   (A)   As used in this section, 9-1-1 SYSTEM means a system through which
individuals can request emergency service using the telephone number 9-1-1.
(R.C. § 128.01(A)) (Rev. 2014)
   (B)   No person shall knowingly use the telephone number of a 9-1-1 system
established under R.C. Chapter 128 to report an emergency if the person knows
that no emergency exists.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly use a 9-1-1 system for a purpose other than
obtaining emergency service.
   (D)   No person shall disclose or use any information concerning telephone
numbers, addresses, or names obtained from the database that serves the public
safety answering point of a 9-1-1 system established under R.C. Chapter 128,
except for any of the following purposes or under any of the following
circumstances:
      (1)   For the purpose of the 9-1-1 system;
      (2)   For the purpose of responding to an emergency call to an emergency
service provider;
      (3)   In the circumstance of the inadvertent disclosure of such
information due solely to technology of the wireless telephone network portion
of the 9-1-1 system not allowing access to the database to be restricted to 9-
1-1 specific answering lines at a public safety answering point;
      (4)   In the circumstance of access to a database being given by a
telephone company that is a wireless service provider to a public utility or
municipal utility in handling customer calls in times of public emergency or
service outages. The charge, terms, and conditions for the disclosure or use of
such information for the purpose of such access to a database shall be subject
to the jurisdiction of the Steering Committee;
      (5)   In the circumstance of access to a database given by a telephone
company that is a wireline service provider to a state and local government in
warning of a public emergency, as determined by the Steering Committee. The
charge, terms and conditions for the disclosure or use of that information for
the purpose of access to a database is subject to the jurisdiction of the
Steering Committee.
(R.C. § 128.32(E) - (G)) (Rev. 2014)
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 128.99(A), (B)) (Rev. 2014)
 
§ 136.21 FAILURE TO DISCLOSE PERSONAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   No person who is in a public place shall refuse to disclose the
person’s name, address, or date of birth, when requested by a law enforcement
officer who reasonably suspects either of the following:
      (1)   The person is committing, has committed, or is about to commit a
criminal offense.
      (2)   The person witnessed any of the following:
         (a)   An offense of violence that would constitute a felony under the
laws of this state;
         (b)   A felony offense that causes or results in, or creates a
substantial risk of, serious physical harm to another person or property;
         (c)   Any attempt or conspiracy to commit, or complicity in
committing, any offenses identified in division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this
section;
         (d)   Any conduct reasonably indicating that any offense identified in
division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this section or any attempt, conspiracy, or
complicity described in division (A)(2)(c) of this section has been, is being,
or is about to be committed.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of failure to
disclose one’s personal information, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (C)   Nothing in division (A) of this section requires a person to answer
any questions beyond that person’s name, address, or date of birth. Nothing in
division (A) of this section authorizes a law enforcement officer to arrest a
person for not providing any information beyond the person’s name, address, or
date of birth or for refusing to describe the offense observed.
   (D)   It is not a violation of division (A) of this section to refuse to
answer a question that would reveal a person’s age or date of birth if age is
an element of the crime that the person is suspected of committing.
(R.C. § 2921.29) (Rev. 2007)
   (E)   No person entering an airport, train station, port, or other similar
critical transportation infrastructure site shall refuse to show identification
when requested by a law enforcement officer when there is a threat to security
and the law enforcement officer is requiring identification of all persons
entering the site.
   (F)   A law enforcement officer may prevent any person who refuses to show
identification when asked under the circumstances described in division (E) of
this section from entering the critical transportation infrastructure site.
(R.C. § 2909.31) (Rev. 2007)
CHAPTER 137: WEAPONS CONTROL
Section
   
137.01   Definitions
   
137.02   Carrying concealed weapons
   
137.03   Using weapons while intoxicated
   
137.04   Improperly handling firearms in a motor vehicle
   
137.05   Possessing criminal tools
   
137.06   Failure to secure dangerous ordnance
   
137.07   Unlawful transactions in weapons
   
137.08   Underage purchase of firearm or handgun
   
137.09   Pointing and discharging firearms and other weapons
   
137.10   License or permit to possess dangerous ordnance
   
137.11   Possession of an object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school
safety zone
   
137.12   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention
   
137.13   Concealed handgun licenses: possession of a revoked or suspended
license; additional restrictions; posting of signs prohibiting possession
   
137.14   Defaced firearms
Cross-reference:
Conveyance into certain facilities, see §
136.13
Injury to persons by hunters, see §
135.05
Injury to property by hunters, see §
131.24
Using weapons to endanger or damage aircraft or airport operations, see §
131.05
Statutory reference:
Return of surrendered firearms by law enforcement, see R.C. § 2923.163
§ 137.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE DUTY. Has the same meaning as defined in 10 U.S.C. § 101.
   ALIEN REGISTRATION NUMBER. The number issued by the United States
Citizenship and Immigration Services Agency that is located on the alien’s
permanent resident card and may also be commonly referred to as the “USCIS
number” or the “alien number”.
   AUTOMATIC FIREARM. Any firearm designed or specially adapted to fire a
succession of cartridges with a single function of the trigger.
   BALLISTIC KNIFE. A knife with a detachable blade that is propelled by a
spring-operated mechanism.
   CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSE or LICENSE TO CARRY A CONCEALED HANDGUN.
      (1)   Means, subject to division (2) of this definition, a license or
temporary emergency license to carry a concealed handgun issued under R.C. §
2923.125 or R.C. § 2923.1213 or a license to carry a concealed handgun issued
by another state with which the Attorney General has entered into a reciprocity
agreement under R.C. § 109.69.
      (2)   A reference in any provision of this Code to a concealed handgun
license issued under R.C. § 2923.125 or a license to carry a concealed handgun
issued under R.C. § 2923.125 means only a license of the type that is specified
in that section. A reference in any provision of this Code to a concealed
handgun license issued under R.C. § 2923.1213, a license to carry a concealed
handgun issued under R.C. § 2923.1213, or a license to carry a concealed
handgun on a temporary emergency basis means only a license of the type that is
specified in R.C. § 2923.1213. A reference in any provision of this Code to a
concealed handgun license issued by another state or a license to carry a
concealed handgun issued by another state means only a license issued by
another state with which the Attorney General has entered into a reciprocity
agreement under R.C. § 109.69.
   DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
      (1)   Any of the following, except as provided in division (2) of this
definition:
         (a)   Any automatic or sawed-off firearm, zip-gun, or ballistic knife.
         (b)   Any explosive device or incendiary device.
         (c)   Nitroglycerin, nitrocellulose, nitrostarch, PETN, cyclonite,
TNT, picric acid, and other high explosives; amatol, tritonal, tetrytol,
pentolite, pecretol, cyclotol, and other high explosive compositions; plastic
explosives; dynamite, blasting gelatin, gelatin dynamite, sensitized ammonium
nitrate, liquid-oxygen blasting explosives, blasting powder, and other blasting
agents; and any other explosive substance having sufficient brisance or power
to be particularly suitable for use as a military explosive, or for use in
mining, quarrying, excavating, or demolitions.
         (d)   Any firearm, rocket launcher, mortar, artillery piece, grenade,
mine, bomb, torpedo, or similar weapon, designed and manufactured for military
purposes, and the ammunition for that weapon.
         (e)   Any firearm muffler or suppressor.
         (f)   Any combination of parts that is intended by the owner for use
in converting any firearm or other device into a dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   The term does not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any firearm, including a military weapon and the ammunition for
that weapon, and regardless of its actual age, that employs a percussion cap or
other obsolete ignition system, or that is designed and safe for use only with
black powder.
         (b)   Any pistol, rifle, or shotgun, designed or suitable for sporting
purposes, including a military weapon as issued or as modified, and the
ammunition for that weapon, unless the firearm is an automatic or sawed-off
firearm.
         (c)   Any cannon or other artillery piece that, regardless of its
actual age, is of a type in accepted use prior to 1887, has no mechanical,
hydraulic, pneumatic, or other system for absorbing recoil and returning the
tube into battery without displacing the carriage, and is designed and safe for
use only with black powder.
         (d)   Black powder, priming quills, and percussion caps possessed and
lawfully used to fire a cannon of a type defined in division (2)(c) of this
definition during displays, celebrations, organized matches or shoots, and
target practice, and smokeless and black powder, primers, and percussion caps
possessed and lawfully used as a propellant or ignition device in small-arms or
small-arms ammunition.
         (e)   Dangerous ordnance that is inoperable or inert and cannot
readily be rendered operable or activated, and that is kept as a trophy,
souvenir, curio, or museum piece.
         (f)   Any device that is expressly excepted from the definition of a
destructive device pursuant to the Gun Control Act of 1968, 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)
(4), as amended, and regulations issued under that act.
         (g)   Any firearm with an overall length of at least 26 inches that is
approved for sale by the Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and
Explosives under the “Gun Control Act of 1968”, 82 Stat. 1213, 18 U.S.C. § 921
(a)(3), but that is found by the Bureau not to be regulated under the “National
Firearms Act”, 68A Stat. 725 (1934), 26 U.S.C. § 5845(a).
   DEADLY WEAPON. Any instrument, device, or thing capable of inflicting death,
and designed or specially adapted for use as a weapon, or possessed, carried,
or used as a weapon.
   EXPLOSIVE. Any chemical compound, mixture, or device, the primary or common
purpose of which is to function by explosion. The term includes all materials
that have been classified as division 1.1, division 1.2, division 1.3, or
division 1.4 explosives by the United States Department of Transportation in
its regulations and includes but is not limited to dynamite, black powder,
pellet powders, initiating explosives, blasting caps, electric blasting caps,
safety fuses, fuse igniters, squibs, cordeau detonant fuses, instantaneous
fuses, and igniter cords and igniters. The term does not include “fireworks”,
as defined in R.C. § 3743.01, or any substance or material otherwise meeting
the definition of explosive set forth in this section that is manufactured,
sold, possessed, transported, stored, or used in any activity described in R.C.
§ 3743.80, provided the activity is conducted in accordance with all applicable
laws, rules, and regulations, including but not limited to the provisions of
R.C. § 3743.80 and the rules of the Fire Marshal adopted pursuant to R.C. §
3737.82.
   EXPLOSIVE DEVICE. Any device designed or specially adapted to cause physical
harm to persons or property by means of an explosion, and consisting of an
explosive substance or agency and a means to detonate it. The term includes
without limitation any bomb, any explosive demolition device, any blasting cap
or detonator containing an explosive charge, and any pressure vessel that has
been knowingly tampered with or arranged so as to explode.
   FIREARM.
      (1)   Any deadly weapon capable of expelling or propelling one or more
projectiles by the action of an explosive or combustible propellant. The term
includes an unloaded firearm, and any firearm that is inoperable but that can
readily be rendered operable.
      (2)   When determining whether a firearm is capable of expelling or
propelling one or more projectiles by the action of an explosive or combustible
propellant, the trier of fact may rely upon circumstantial evidence, including
but not limited to the representations and actions of the individual exercising
control over the firearm.
   HANDGUN. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any firearm that has a short stock and is designed to be held and
fired by the use of a single hand;
      (2)   Any combination of parts from which a firearm of a type described
in division (1) of this definition can be assembled.
   INCENDIARY DEVICE. Any firebomb, and any device designed or specially
adapted to cause physical harm to persons or property by means of fire, and
consisting of an incendiary substance or agent and a means to ignite it.
   MISDEMEANOR PUNISHABLE BY IMPRISONMENT FOR A TERM EXCEEDING ONE YEAR. The
phrase does not include any of the following:
      (1)   Any federal or state offense pertaining to antitrust violations,
unfair trade practices, restraints of trade, or other similar offenses relating
to the regulation of business practices;
      (2)   Any misdemeanor offense punishable by a term of imprisonment of two
years or less.
   SAWED-OFF FIREARM. A shotgun with a barrel less than 18 inches long, or a
rifle with a barrel less than 16 inches long, or a shotgun or rifle less than
26 inches long overall. “Sawed-off firearm” does not include any firearm with
an overall length of at least 26 inches that is approved for sale by the
Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives under the “Gun
Control Act of 1968”, 82 Stat. 1213, 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)(3), but that is found
by the Bureau not to be regulated under the “National Firearms Act”, 68A Stat.
725 (1934), 26 U.S.C. § 5845(a).
   SEMI-AUTOMATIC FIREARM. Any firearm designed or specially adapted to fire a
single cartridge and automatically chamber a succeeding cartridge ready to
fire, with a single function of the trigger.
   VALID CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSE or VALID LICENSE TO CARRY A CONCEALED
HANDGUN. A concealed handgun license that is currently valid, that is not under
a suspension under R.C. § 2923.128(A)(1), under R.C. § 2923.1213, or under a
suspension provision of the state other than this state in which the license
was issued, and that has not been revoked under R.C. § 2923.128(B)(1), under
R.C. § 2923.1213, or under a revocation provision of the state other than this
state in which the license was issued.
   ZIP-GUN. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any firearm of crude and extemporized manufacture.
      (2)   Any device, including without limitation a starter’s pistol, not
designed as a firearm, but that is specially adapted for use as a firearm.
      (3)   Any industrial tool, signaling device, or safety device, not
designed as a firearm, but that as designed is capable of use as such, when
possessed, carried, or used as a firearm.
(R.C. § 2923.11) (Rev. 2020)
§ 137.02 CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly carry or have, concealed on the person’s
person or concealed ready at hand, any of the following:
      (1)   A deadly weapon other than a handgun;
      (2)   A handgun other than a dangerous ordnance;
      (3)   A dangerous ordnance.
   (B)   No person who has been issued a concealed handgun license shall do any
of the following:
      (1)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose, and is
carrying a concealed handgun, fail to promptly inform any law enforcement
officer who approaches the person after the person has been stopped that the
person has been issued a concealed handgun license and that the person then is
carrying a concealed handgun;
      (2)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to keep the person’s hands in
plain sight at any time after any law enforcement officer begins approaching
the person while stopped and before the law enforcement officer leaves, unless
the failure is pursuant to and in accordance with directions given by a law
enforcement officer;
      (3)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose, if the
person is carrying a concealed handgun, and if the person is approached by any
law enforcement officer while stopped, knowingly remove or attempt to remove
the loaded handgun from the holster, pocket, or other place in which the person
is carrying it, knowingly grasp or hold the loaded handgun, or knowingly have
contact with the loaded handgun by touching it with the person’s hands or
fingers at any time after the law enforcement officer begins approaching and
before the law enforcement officer leaves, unless the person removes, attempts
to remove, grasps, holds, or has contact with the loaded handgun pursuant to
and in accordance with directions given by the law enforcement officer;
      (4)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly disregard or fail to comply with any
lawful order of any law enforcement officer given while the person is stopped,
including but not limited to a specific order to the person to keep the
person’s hands in plain sight.
   (C)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, or to a law enforcement officer, who is authorized to carry
concealed weapons or dangerous ordnance or is authorized to carry handguns and
is acting within the scope of the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties;
         (b)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry concealed weapons or dangerous ordnance or is authorized to carry
handguns, and who is subject to and in compliance with the requirements of R.C.
§ 109.801, unless the appointing authority of the person has expressly
specified that the exemption provided in this division (C)(1)(b) does not apply
to the person;
         (c)   A person’s transportation or storage of a firearm, other than a
firearm described in R.C. § 2923.11(G) to (M), in a motor vehicle for any
lawful purpose if the firearm is not on the actor’s person;
         (d)   A person’s storage or possession of a firearm, other than a
firearm described in R.C. § 2923.11(G) to (M), in the actor’s own home for any
lawful purpose.
      (2)   Division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to any person who,
at the time of the alleged carrying or possession of a handgun, either is
carrying a valid concealed handgun license or is an active duty member of the
armed forces of the United States and is carrying a valid military
identification card and documentation of successful completion of firearms
training that meets or exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. §
2923.125(G)(1), unless the person knowingly is in a place described in R.C. §
2923.126(B).
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(1) of this
section of carrying or having control of a weapon other than a handgun and
other than a dangerous ordnance, that the actor was not otherwise prohibited by
law from having the weapon, and that any of the following applies:
      (1)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for
defensive purposes, while the actor was engaged in or was going to or from the
actor’s lawful business or occupation, which business or occupation was of a
character or was necessarily carried on in a manner or at a time or place as to
render the actor particularly susceptible to criminal attack, such as would
justify a prudent person in going armed.
      (2)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for
defensive purposes, while the actor was engaged in a lawful activity and had
reasonable cause to fear a criminal attack upon the actor, a member of the
actor’s family, or the actor’s home, such as would justify a prudent person in
going armed.
      (3)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for any
lawful purpose and while in the actor’s own home.
   (E)   No person who is charged with a violation of this section shall be
required to obtain a concealed handgun license as a condition for the dismissal
of the charge.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of carrying concealed
weapons. Except as otherwise provided in this division or divisions (F)(2), (F)
(6), and (F)(7) of this section, carrying concealed weapons in violation of
division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Except as
otherwise provided in this division or divisions (F)(2), (F)(6), and (F)(7) of
this section, if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of
this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance
or of any offense of violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is
either loaded or for which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the
weapon involved is dangerous ordnance, carrying concealed weapons in violation
of division (A) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. Except as otherwise provided in divisions (F)(2), (F)(6), and (F)(7)
of this section, if the offense is committed aboard an aircraft, or with
purpose to carry a concealed weapon aboard an aircraft, regardless of the
weapon involved, carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (A) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (F)(6) of this section, if a person
being arrested for a violation of division (A)(2) of this section promptly
produces a valid concealed handgun license, and if at the time of the violation
the person was not knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B), the
officer shall not arrest the person for a violation of that division. If the
person is not able to promptly produce any concealed handgun license and if the
person is not in a place described in that section, the officer may arrest the
person for a violation of that division, and the offender shall be punished as
follows:
         (a)   The offender shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor if both of
the following apply:
            1.   Within 10 days after the arrest, the offender presents a
concealed handgun license, which license was valid at the time of the arrest to
the law enforcement agency that employs the arresting officer.
            2.   At the time of the arrest, the offender was not knowingly in a
place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
         (b)   The offender shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined
$500 if all of the following apply:
            1.   The offender previously had been issued a concealed handgun
license, and that license expired within the two years immediately preceding
the arrest.
            2.   Within 45 days after the arrest, the offender presents a
concealed handgun license to the law enforcement agency that employed the
arresting officer, and the offender waives in writing the offender’s right to a
speedy trial on the charge of the violation that is provided in R.C. § 2945.71.
            3.   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
not knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
         (c)   If divisions (F)(2)(a) and (F)(2)(b) and (F)(6) of this section
do not apply, the offender shall be punished under division (F)(1) or (F)(7) of
this section.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, carrying concealed
weapons in violation of division (B)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree, and, in addition to any other penalty or sanction imposed for a
violation of division (B)(1) of this section, the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2). If, at the time
of the stop of the offender for a law enforcement purpose that was the basis of
the violation, any law enforcement officer involved with the stop had actual
knowledge that the offender has been issued a concealed handgun license,
carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(1) of this section is a
minor misdemeanor, and the offender’s concealed handgun license shall not be
suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2).
      (4)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(2) or (B)
(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. In
addition to any other penalty or sanction imposed for a misdemeanor violation
of division (B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section, the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2).
      (5)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(3) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (6)   If a person being arrested for a violation of division (A)(2) of
this section is an active duty m ember of the armed forces of the United States
and is carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of
successful completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training
requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), and if at the time of the
violation the person was not knowingly in a place described in R.C. 2923.126
(B), the officer shall not arrest the person for a violation of that division.
If the person is not able to promptly produce a valid military identification
card and documentation of successful completion of firearms training that meets
or exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1) and if
the person is not in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B), the officer shall
issue a citation and the offender shall be assessed a civil penalty of not more
than $500. The citation shall be automatically dismissed and the civil penalty
shall not be assessed if both of the following apply:
         (a)   Within ten days after the issuance of the citation, the offender
presents a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), which were both valid at the time of the
issuance of the citation to the law enforcement agency that employs the citing
officer.
         (b)   At the time of the citation, the offender was not knowingly in a
place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
      (7)   If a person being arrested for a violation of division (A)(2) of
this section is knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B)(5) and is
not authorized to carry a handgun or have a handgun concealed on the person’s
person or concealed ready at hand under that division, the penalty shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person
produces a valid concealed handgun license within ten days after the arrest and
has not previously been convicted or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(A)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a minor misdemeanor;
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (A)
(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
         (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division
(A)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree;
         (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of
division (A)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, or convicted of or pleaded guilty to any offense of
violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is either loaded or for
which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the weapon involved is a
dangerous ordnance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   If a law enforcement officer stops a person to question the person
regarding a possible violation of this section, for a traffic stop, or for any
other law enforcement purpose, if the person surrenders a firearm to the
officer, either voluntarily or pursuant to a request or demand of the officer,
and if the officer does not charge the person with a violation of this section
or arrest the person for any offense, the person is not otherwise prohibited by
law from possessing the firearm, and the firearm is not contraband, the officer
shall return the firearm to the person at the termination of the stop. If a
court orders a law enforcement officer to return a firearm to a person pursuant
to the requirement set forth in this division, R.C. § 2923.163(B) applies.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, “deadly weapon” or “weapon” does not
include any knife, razor, or cutting instrument if the instrument was not used
as a weapon.
(R.C. § 2923.12) (Rev. 2022)
Statutory reference:
Carrying concealed handguns, licensing through county sheriff, see R.C. §§
2923.124 et seq.
Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance on school
premises, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122
Conveyance, possession, or control of deadly weapon or dangerous ordinance in a
courthouse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.123
Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offense, see R.C. §
2923.131
Possession of firearm in liquor permit premises, felony offense, see R.C. §
2923.121
§ 137.03 USING WEAPONS WHILE INTOXICATED.
   (A)   No person, while under the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse,
shall carry or use any firearm or dangerous ordnance.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of using weapons while
intoxicated, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2923.15)
§ 137.04 IMPROPERLY HANDLING FIREARMS IN A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly discharge a firearm while in or on a motor
vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a loaded firearm in a
motor vehicle in such a manner that the firearm is accessible to the operator
or any passenger without leaving the vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a firearm in a motor
vehicle, unless the person may lawfully possess that firearm under applicable
law of this state or the United States, the firearm is unloaded, and the
firearm is carried in one of the following ways:
      (1)   In a closed package, box, or case.
      (2)   In a compartment that can be reached only by leaving the vehicle.
      (3)   In plain sight and secured in a rack or holder made for the
purpose.
      (4)   If the firearm is at least 24 inches in overall length as measured
from the muzzle to the part of the stock furthest from the muzzle and if the
barrel is at least 18 inches in length, either in plain sight with the action
open or the weapon stripped, or, if the firearm is of a type on which the
action will not stay open or which cannot easily be stripped, in plain sight.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a loaded handgun in a
motor vehicle if, at the time of that transportation or possession, any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a
combination of them.
      (2)   The person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine
contains a concentration of alcohol, a listed controlled substance, or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance prohibited for persons operating a
vehicle, as specified in R.C. § 4511.19(A), regardless of whether the person at
the time of the transportation or possession as described in this division is
the operator of or a passenger in the motor vehicle.
   (E)   No person who has been issued a concealed handgun license or who is an
active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is carrying a
valid military identification card and documentation of successful completion
of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements described
in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), who is the driver or an occupant of a motor vehicle
that is stopped as a result of a traffic stop or a stop for another law
enforcement purpose or is the driver or an occupant of a commercial motor
vehicle that is stopped by an employee of the motor carrier enforcement unit
for the purposes defined in R.C. § 5503.34, and who is transporting or has a
loaded handgun in the motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle in any manner,
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to promptly inform any law enforcement officer who approaches
the vehicle while stopped that the person has been issued a concealed handgun
license or is authorized to carry a concealed handgun as an active duty member
of the armed forces of the United States and that the person then possesses or
has a loaded handgun in the motor vehicle;
      (2)   Fail to promptly inform the employee of the unit who approaches the
vehicle while stopped that the person has been issued a concealed handgun
license or is authorized to carry a concealed handgun as an active duty member
of the armed forces of the United States and that the person then possesses or
has a loaded handgun in the commercial motor vehicle;
      (3)   Knowingly fail to remain in the motor vehicle while stopped, or
knowingly fail to keep the person’s hands in plain sight at any time after any
law enforcement officer begins approaching the person while stopped and before
the law enforcement officer leaves, unless the failure is pursuant to and in
accordance with directions given by a law enforcement officer;
      (4)   Knowingly have contact with the loaded handgun by touching it with
the person’s hands or fingers in the motor vehicle at any time after the law
enforcement officer begins approaching and before the law enforcement officer
leaves, unless the person has contact with the loaded handgun pursuant to and
in accordance with directions given by the law enforcement officer.
      (5)   Knowingly disregard or fail to comply with any lawful order of any
law enforcement officer given while the motor vehicle is stopped, including but
not limited to a specific order to the person to keep the person’s hands in
plain sight.
   (F)   (1)   Divisions (A), (B), (C), and (E) of this section do not apply to
any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, or a law enforcement officer, when authorized to carry or have
loaded or accessible firearms in motor vehicles and acting within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties;
         (b)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry or have loaded or accessible firearms in motor vehicles, and who is
subject to and in compliance with the requirements of R.C. § 109.801, unless
the appointing authority of the person has expressly specified that the
exemption provided in this division (F)(1)(b) does not apply to the person.
      (2)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a person if all of
the following circumstances apply:
         (a)   The person discharges a firearm from a motor vehicle at a coyote
or groundhog, the discharge is not during the deer gun hunting season as set by
the Chief of the Division of Wildlife of the Department of Natural Resources,
and the discharge at the coyote or groundhog, but for the operation of this
section, is lawful.
         (b)   The motor vehicle from which the person discharges the firearm
is on real property that is located in an unincorporated area of a township and
that is either zoned for agriculture or is used for agriculture.
         (c)   The person owns the real property described in division (F)(2)
(b) of this section, is the spouse or a child of another person who owns that
real property, is a tenant of another person who owns that real property, or is
the spouse or a child of a tenant of another person who owns that real
property.
         (d)   The person does not discharge the firearm in any of the
following manners:
            1.   While under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
alcohol and a drug of abuse;
            2.   In the direction of a street, highway or other public or
private property used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking;
            3.   At or into an occupied structure that is a permanent or
temporary habitation;
            4.   In the commission of any violation of law, including but not
limited to a felony that includes, as an essential element, purposely or
knowingly causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to
another and that was committed by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle.
      (3)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a person if all of
the following apply:
         (a)   The person possesses a valid all- purpose vehicle permit issued
under R.C. § 1533.103 by the Chief of the Division of Wildlife.
         (b)   The person discharges a firearm at a wild quadruped or game bird
as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 during the open hunting season for the applicable
wild quadruped or game bird.
         (c)   The person discharges a firearm from a stationary all-purpose
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 from private or publicly owned lands or
from a motor vehicle that is parked on a road that is owned or administered by
the Division of Wildlife.
         (d)   The person does not discharge the firearm in any of the
following manners:
            1.   While under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
alcohol and a drug of abuse;
            2.   In the direction of a street, a highway, or other public or
private property that is used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking;
            3.   At or into an occupied structure that is a permanent or
temporary habitation;
            4.   In the commission of any violation of law, including but not
limited to a felony that includes, as an essential element, purposely or
knowingly causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to
another and that was committed by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle.
      (4)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person if
all of the following circumstances apply:
         (a)   At the time of the alleged violation of either of those
divisions, the person is the operator of or a passenger in a motor vehicle.
         (b)   The motor vehicle is on real property that is located in an
unincorporated area of a township and that is either zoned for agriculture or
is used for agriculture.
         (c)   The person owns the real property described in division (F)(4)
(b) of this section, is the spouse or a child of another person who owns that
real property, is a tenant of another person who owns that real property, or is
the spouse or a child of a tenant of another person who owns that real
property.
         (d)   The person, prior to arriving at the real property described in
division (F)(4)(b) of this section, did not transport or possess a firearm in
the motor vehicle in a manner prohibited by division (B) or (C) of this section
while the motor vehicle was being operated on a street, highway or other public
or private property used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking.
      (5)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person who
transports or possesses a handgun in a motor vehicle if, at the time of that
transportation or possession, both of the following apply:
         (a)   The person transporting or possessing the handgun is either
carrying a valid concealed handgun license or is an active duty member of the
armed forces of the United States and is carrying a valid military
identification card and documentation of successful completion of firearms
training that meets or exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. §
2923.125(G)(1).
         (b)   The person transporting or possessing the handgun is not
knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
      (6)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person if
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person possesses a valid all- purpose vehicle permit issued
under R.C. § 1533.103 by the Chief of the Division of Wildlife.
         (b)   The person is on or in an all-purpose vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 1531.01 or a motor vehicle during the open hunting season for a wild
quadruped or game bird.
         (c)   The person is on or in an all-purpose vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 1531.01 on private or publicly owned lands or on or in a motor vehicle that
is parked on a road that is owned or administered by the Division of Wildlife.
   (G)   (1)   The affirmative defenses authorized in R.C. § 2923.12(D)(1) and
(D)(2) are affirmative defenses to a charge under division (B) or (C) of this
section that involves a firearm other than a handgun.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B) or (C)
of this section of improperly handling firearms in a motor vehicle that the
actor transported or had the firearm in the motor vehicle for any lawful
purpose and while the motor vehicle was on the actor’s own property, provided
that this affirmative defense is not available unless the person, immediately
prior to arriving at the actor’s own property, did not transport or possess the
firearm in a motor vehicle in a manner prohibited by division (B) or (C) of
this section while the motor vehicle was being operated on a street, highway,
or other public or private property used by the public for vehicular traffic.
   (H)   (1)   No person who is charged with a violation of division (B), (C),
or (D) of this section shall be required to obtain a concealed handgun license
as a condition for the dismissal of the charge.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty
to, or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E) of this section as it
existed prior to September 30, 2011, and if the conduct that was the basis of
the violation no longer would be a violation of division (E) of this section on
or after September 30, 2011, the person may file an application under R.C. §
2953.37 requesting the expungement of the record of conviction.
         (b)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty to,
or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B) or (C) of this section as
the division existed prior to September 30, 2011, and if the conduct that was
the basis of the violation no longer would be a violation of division (B) or
(C) of this section on or after September 30, 2011, due to the application of
division (F)(5) of this section as it exists on and after September 30, 2011,
the person may file an application under R.C. § 2953.37 requesting the
expungement of the record of conviction.
   (I)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of improperly handling
firearms in a motor vehicle. Violation of division (A) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. Violation of division (C)
of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. A violation of division
(D) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law
and, if the loaded handgun is concealed on the person’s person, it is also a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, a violation of division (E)(1) or (E)(2) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree, and, in addition to any other
penalty or sanction imposed for the violation, the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2). If at the time of
the stop of the offender for a traffic stop, for another law enforcement
purpose, or for a purpose defined in R.C. § 5503.34 that was the basis of the
violation any law enforcement officer involved with the stop or the employee of
the motor carrier enforcement unit who made the stop had actual knowledge of
the offender’s status as a licensee, a violation of division (E)(1) or (E)(2)
of this section is a minor misdemeanor, and the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall not be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2). A violation
of division (E)(4) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. A violation of division (E)(3) or (E)(5) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E)(3) or (E)(5) of
this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. In addition to any other
penalty or sanction imposed for a misdemeanor violation of division (E)(3) or
(E)(5) of this section, the offender’s concealed handgun license shall be
suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2). A violation of division (B) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (J)   If a law enforcement officer stops a motor vehicle for a traffic stop
or any other purpose, if any person in the motor vehicle surrenders a firearm
to the officer, either voluntarily or pursuant to a request or demand of the
officer, and if the officer does not charge the person with a violation of this
section or arrest the person for any offense, the person is not otherwise
prohibited by law from possessing the firearm, and the firearm is not
contraband, the officer shall return the firearm to the person at the
termination of the stop. If a court orders a law enforcement officer to return
a firearm to a person pursuant to the requirement set forth in this division,
R.C. § 2923.163(B) applies.
   (K)   As used in this section:
      AGRICULTURE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 519.01.
      COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4506.25(A).
      HIGHWAY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      MOTOR CARRIER ENFORCEMENT UNIT. Means the Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit
in the Department of Public Safety, Division of State Highway Patrol, that is
created by R.C. § 5503.34.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      OCCUPIED STRUCTURE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.01.
      STREET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      TENANT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1531.01.
      UNLOADED.
         (a)   With respect to a firearm other than a firearm described in
division (d) of this definition, means that no ammunition is in the firearm in
question, no magazine or speed loader containing ammunition is inserted into
the firearm, and one of the following applies:
            1.   There is no ammunition in a magazine or speed loader that is
in the vehicle in question and that may be used with the firearm in question.
            2.   Any magazine or speed loader that contains ammunition and that
may be used with the firearm in question is stored in a compartment within the
vehicle in question that cannot be accessed without leaving the vehicle or is
stored in a container that provides complete and separate enclosure.
         (b)   For the purposes of division (a)2. of this definition, a
“container that provides complete and separate enclosure” includes, but is not
limited to, any of the following:
            1.   A package, box, or case with multiple compartments, as long as
the loaded magazine or speed loader and the firearm in question either are in
separate compartments within the package, box, or case, or, if they are in the
same compartment, the magazine or speed loader is contained within a separate
enclosure in that compartment that does not contain the firearm and that closes
using a snap, button, buckle, zipper, hook and loop closing mechanism, or other
fastener that must be opened to access the contents or the firearm is contained
within a separate enclosure of that nature in that compartment that does not
contain the magazine or speed loader;
            2.   A pocket or other enclosure on the person of the person in
question that closes using a snap, button, buckle, zipper, hook and loop
closing mechanism, or other fastener that must be opened to access the
contents.
         (c)   For the purposes of divisions (a) and (b) of this definition,
ammunition held in stripper-clips or in en-bloc clips is not considered
ammunition that is loaded into a magazine or speed loader.
         (d)   “Unloaded” means, with respect to a firearm employing a
percussion cap, flintlock, or other obsolete ignition system, when the weapon
is uncapped or when the priming charge is removed from the pan.
   (L)   Divisions (a) and (b) of the definition of “unloaded” in division (K)
of this section do not affect the authority of a person who is carrying a valid
concealed handgun license to have one or more magazines or speed loaders
containing ammunition anywhere in a vehicle, without being transported as
described in those divisions, as long as no ammunition is in a firearm, other
than a handgun, in the vehicle other than as permitted under any other
provision of this chapter. A person who is carrying a valid concealed handgun
license may have one or more magazines or speed loaders containing ammunition
anywhere in a vehicle without further restriction, as long as no ammunition is
in a firearm, other than a handgun, in the vehicle other than as permitted
under any provision of this chapter.
(R.C. § 2923.16) (Rev. 2019)
Statutory reference:
Return of surrendered firearms by law enforcement, see R.C. § 2923.163
§ 137.05 POSSESSING CRIMINAL TOOLS.
   (A)   No person shall possess or have under his or her control any
substance, device, instrument, or article, with purpose to use it criminally.
   (B)   Each of the following constitutes prima facie evidence of criminal
purpose:
      (1)   Possession or control of any dangerous ordnance, or the materials
or parts for making a dangerous ordnance, in the absence of circumstances
indicating the dangerous ordnance, materials or parts are intended for a
legitimate use.
      (2)   Possession or control of any substance, device, instrument, or
article designed or specially adapted for criminal use.
      (3)   Possession or control of any substance, device, instrument, or
article commonly used for criminal purposes, under circumstances indicating the
item is intended for criminal use.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing criminal tools.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, possessing criminal tools is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the circumstances indicate that the
substance, device, instrument, or article involved in the offense was intended
for use in the commission of a felony, possessing criminal tools is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2923.24)
§ 137.06 FAILURE TO SECURE DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
   (A)   No person, in acquiring, possessing, carrying, or using any dangerous
ordnance, shall negligently fail to take proper precautions:
      (1)   To secure the dangerous ordnance against theft, or against its
acquisition or use by any unauthorized or incompetent person.
      (2)   To insure the safety of persons and property.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to a secure
dangerous ordnance, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2923.19)
§ 137.07 UNLAWFUL TRANSACTIONS IN WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Recklessly sell, lend, give or furnish any firearm to any person
prohibited by R.C. § 2923.13 or 2923.15, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, from acquiring or using any firearm, or recklessly sell,
lend, give or furnish any dangerous ordnance to any person prohibited by R.C. §
2923.13, 2923.15 or 2923.17, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
from acquiring or using any dangerous ordnance;
      (2)   Possess any firearm or dangerous ordnance with purpose to dispose
of it in violation of division (A)(1) of this section;
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section,
knowingly solicit, persuade, encourage, or entice a federally licensed firearms
dealer or private seller to transfer a firearm or ammunition to any person in a
manner prohibited by state or federal law;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section, with
an intent to deceive, knowingly provide materially false information to a
federally licensed firearms dealer or private seller;
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section,
knowingly procure, solicit, persuade, encourage, or entice a person to act in
violation of division (A)(3) or (A)(4) of this section;
      (6)   When transferring any dangerous ordnance to another, negligently
fail to require the transferee to exhibit such identification, license, or
permit showing the transferee to be authorized to acquire dangerous ordnance
pursuant to R.C. § 2923.17, or negligently fail to take a complete record of
the transaction and forthwith forward a copy of the record to the sheriff of
the county or Safety Director or Police Chief of the municipality where the
transaction takes place;
      (7)   Knowingly fail to report to law enforcement authorities forthwith
the loss or theft of any firearm or dangerous ordnance in the person’s
possession and under his or her control.
   (B)   Divisions (A)(3), (A)(4), and (A)(5) of this section do not apply to
any of the following:
      (1)   A law enforcement officer who is acting within the scope of the
officer’s duties;
      (2)   A person who is acting in accordance with directions given by a law
enforcement officer described in division (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful transactions in
weapons. A violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A
violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (A)(7) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      AMMUNITION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.401.
      FEDERALLY LICENSED FIREARMS DEALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5502.63.
      MATERIALLY FALSE INFORMATION. Means information regarding the transfer of
a firearm or ammunition that portrays an illegal transaction as legal or a
legal transaction as illegal.
      PRIVATE SELLER. Means a person who sells, offers for sale, or transfers a
firearm or ammunition and who is not a federally licensed firearms dealer.
(R.C. § 2923.20) (Rev. 2022)
§ 137.08 UNDERAGE PURCHASE OF FIREARM OR HANDGUN.
   (A)   No person under 18 years of age shall purchase or attempt to purchase
a firearm.
   (B)   No person under 21 years of age shall purchase or attempt to purchase
a handgun; provided, that this division does not apply to the purchase or
attempted purchase of a handgun by a person 18 years of age or older and under
21 years of age if either of the following applies:
      (1)   The person is a law enforcement officer and has received firearms
training approved by the Ohio Peace Officer Training Council or equivalent
firearms training.
      (2)   The person is an active or reserve member of the armed services of
the United States or the Ohio National Guard, or was honorably discharged from
military service in the active or reserve armed services of the United States
or the Ohio National Guard, and the person has received firearms training from
the armed services or the national guard or equivalent firearms training.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of underage
purchase of a firearm, a delinquent act that would be a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law if it could be committed by an adult. Whoever
violates division (B) of this section is guilty of underage purchase of a
handgun, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2923.211) (Rev. 2010)
Statutory reference:
Improperly furnishing firearms to a minor, felony, see R.C. § 2923.21
§ 137.09 POINTING AND DISCHARGING FIREARMS AND OTHER WEAPONS.
   (A)   Discharge of firearms on or near prohibited premises. No person shall
do any of the following:
      (1)   Without permission from the proper officials and subject to
division (B)(1) of this section, discharge a firearm upon or over a cemetery or
within 100 yards of a cemetery;
      (2)   Subject to division (B)(2) of this section, discharge of a firearm
on a lawn, park, pleasure ground, orchard, or other ground appurtenant to a
schoolhouse, church, or inhabited dwelling, the property of another, or a
charitable institution;
      (3)   Discharge a firearm upon or over a public road or highway.
   (B)   Application of division (A).
      (1)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
while on the person’s own land, discharges a firearm.
      (2)   Division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to a person who owns
any type of property described in that division and who, while on the person’s
own enclosure, discharges a firearm.
   (C)   Penalty for violation of division (A). Whoever violates division (A)
of this section is guilty of discharge of a firearm on or near prohibited
premises. A violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. A violation of division (A)(3) shall be
punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) of this section, a
violation of division (A)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   If the violation created a substantial risk of physical harm to any
person, caused serious physical harm to property, caused physical harm to any
person, or caused serious physical harm to any person, a violation of division
(A)(3) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2923.162) (Rev. 2005)
   (D)   Hunting near township park.
      (1)   No person shall hunt, shoot, or kill game within one-half mile of a
township park unless the Board of Township Park Commissioners has granted
permission to kill game not desired within the limits prohibited by this
division.
(R.C. § 3773.06)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (D)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 3773.99(A))
   (E)   Unlawful discharge. No person shall discharge any BB gun, air gun, or
firearm, or make use of any sling, bow and arrow, or crossbow, within the
corporate limits of the municipality.
   (F)   Unlawful pointing or aiming. No person shall, intentionally and
without malice, point or aim any BB gun, air gun, or firearm, or any sling, bow
and arrow, or crossbow at or toward another.
   (G)   Penalty for violations of division (E) or (F). Whoever violates
division (E) or (F) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
   (H)   Exceptions. This section shall not prohibit the firing of a military
salute or the firing of weapons by persons of the nation’s armed forces acting
under military authority, and shall not apply to law enforcement officials or
other government officials in the proper enforcement of the law, or to any
person in the proper exercise of the right of self defense, or to any person
otherwise lawfully permitted by proper federal, state or local authorities to
discharge a BB gun, air gun, or firearm, or to use a sling, bow and arrow, or
crossbow in a manner contrary to the provisions of this section. Division (E)
of this section does not extend to cases in which BB guns, air guns, or
firearms, or slings, bows and arrows, or crossbows are used in the confines of
structures or used within the confines of a person’s own property, provided
such use is under adult supervision and is approved by the municipality.
(Rev. 2003)
Statutory reference:
Improperly discharging firearm at or into habitation or school safety zone,
felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.161
§ 137.10 LICENSE OR PERMIT TO POSSESS DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
   (A)   Upon application to the sheriff of the county or Safety Director or
Police Chief of the municipality where the applicant resides or has the
applicant’s principal place of business, and upon payment of the fee specified
in division (B) of this section, a license or temporary permit shall be issued
to qualified applicants to acquire, possess, carry or use a dangerous ordnance
for the following purposes:
      (1)   Contractors, wreckers, quarriers, mine operators and other persons
regularly employing explosives in the course of a legitimate business, with
respect to explosives and explosive devices acquired, possessed, carried or
used in the course of such business.
      (2)   Farmers, with respect to explosives and explosive devices acquired,
possessed, carried or used for agricultural purposes on lands farmed by them.
      (3)   Scientists, engineers, and instructors, with respect to a dangerous
ordnance acquired, possessed, carried or used in the course of bona fide
research or instruction.
      (4)   Financial institutions and armored car company guards, with respect
to automatic firearms lawfully acquired, possessed, carried or used by any such
person while acting within the scope of the person’s duties.
      (5)   In the discretion of the issuing authority, any responsible person,
with respect to a dangerous ordnance lawfully acquired, possessed, carried or
used for a legitimate research, scientific, educational, industrial or other
proper purpose.
   (B)   Application for a license or temporary permit under this section shall
be in writing under oath to the sheriff of the county or Safety Director or
Police Chief of the municipality where the applicant resides or has the
applicant’s principal place of business. The application shall be accompanied
by an application fee of $50 when the application is for a license, and an
application fee of $5 when the application is for a temporary permit. The fees
shall be paid into the General Revenue Fund of the county or municipality. The
application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, age, address, occupation and business address of the
applicant, if the applicant is a natural person, or the name, address, and
principal place of business of the applicant if the applicant is a corporation.
      (2)   A description of the dangerous ordnance for which a permit is
requested.
      (3)   A description of the places where and the manner in which the
dangerous ordnance is to be kept, carried, and used.
      (4)   A statement of the purposes for which the dangerous ordnance is to
be acquired, possessed, carried or used.
      (5)   Such other information as the issuing authority may require in
giving effect to this section.
   (C)   Upon investigation, the issuing authority shall issue a license or
temporary permit only if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The applicant is not otherwise prohibited by law from acquiring,
having, carrying or using a dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   The applicant is 21 years of age or over, if the applicant is a
natural person.
      (3)   It appears that the applicant has sufficient competence to safely
acquire, possess, carry or use the dangerous ordnance, and that proper
precautions will be taken to protect the security of the dangerous ordnance and
ensure the safety of persons and property.
      (4)   It appears that the dangerous ordnance will be lawfully acquired,
possessed, carried and used by the applicant for a legitimate purpose.
   (D)   The license or temporary permit shall identify the person to whom it
is issued, identify the dangerous ordnance involved and state the purposes for
which the license or temporary permit is issued, state the expiration date, if
any, and list such restrictions on the acquisition, possession, carriage, or
use of the dangerous ordnance as the issuing authority considers advisable to
protect the security of the dangerous ordnance and ensure the safety of persons
and property.
   (E)   A temporary permit shall be issued for the casual use of explosives
and explosive devices, and other consumable dangerous ordnance, and shall
expire within 30 days of its issuance. A license shall be issued for the
regular use of consumable dangerous ordnance, or for any non- consumable
dangerous ordnance, which license need not specify an expiration date, but the
issuing authority may specify such expiration date, not earlier than one year
from the date of issuance, as it considers advisable in view of the nature of
the dangerous ordnance and the purposes for which the license is issued.
   (F)   The dangerous ordnance specified in a license or temporary permit may
be obtained by the holder anywhere in the state. Pursuant to R.C. § 2923.18(F),
the holder of a license may use such dangerous ordnance anywhere in the state.
The holder of a temporary permit may use such dangerous ordnance only within
the territorial jurisdiction of the issuing authority.
   (G)   The issuing authority shall forward to the State Fire Marshal a copy
of each license or temporary permit issued pursuant to this section, and a copy
of each record of a transaction in a dangerous ordnance and of each report of a
lost or stolen dangerous ordnance, given to the local law enforcement authority
as required by R.C. § 2923.20(A)(6) and (A)(7) or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. The State Fire Marshal will keep a permanent file of all
licenses and temporary permits issued pursuant to this section, and of all
records of transactions in, and losses or thefts of a dangerous ordnance
forwarded by local law enforcement authorities pursuant to this section.
(R.C. § 2923.18) (Rev. 2022)
§ 137.11 POSSESSION OF AN OBJECT INDISTINGUISHABLE FROM A FIREARM IN A SCHOOL
SAFETY ZONE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly possess an object in a school safety zone if
both of the following apply:
      (1)   The object is indistinguishable from a firearm, whether or not the
object is capable of being fired.
      (2)   The person indicates that the person possesses the object and that
it is a firearm, or the person knowingly displays or brandishes the object and
indicates that it is a firearm.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States who is authorized to carry deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance
and is acting within the scope of the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties,
a law enforcement officer who is authorized to carry deadly weapons or
dangerous ordnance, a security officer employed by a board of education or
governing body of a school during the time that the security officer is on duty
pursuant to that contract of employment, or any other person who has written
authorization from the board of education or governing body of a school to
convey deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance into a school safety zone or to
possess a deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance in a school safety zone and who
conveys or possesses the deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance in accordance with
that authorization;
         (b)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance, and who is subject to and in
compliance with the requirements of R.C. § 109.801, unless the appointing
authority of the person has expressly specified that the exemption provided in
this division (B)(1)(b) does not apply to the person.
      (2)   This section does not apply to premises upon which home schooling
is conducted. This section also does not apply to a school administrator,
teacher or employee who possesses an object that is indistinguishable from a
firearm for legitimate school purposes during the course of employment, a
student who uses an object that is indistinguishable from a firearm under the
direction of a school administrator, teacher or employee, or any other person
who, with the express prior approval of a school administrator, possesses an
object that is indistinguishable from a firearm for a legitimate purpose,
including the use of the object in a ceremonial activity, a play, re-enactment
or other dramatic presentation, school safety training, or a ROTC activity or
another similar use of the object.
      (3)   This section does not apply to a person who conveys or attempts to
convey a handgun into, or possesses a handgun in, a school safety zone if, at
the time of that conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession of the
handgun, all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person does not enter into a school building or onto school
premises and is not at a school activity.
         (b)   The person is carrying a valid concealed handgun license or the
person is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         (c)   The person is in the school safety zone in accordance with 18
U.S.C. § 922(q)(2)(B).
         (d)   The person is not knowingly in a place described in R.C. §
2923.126(B)(1) or (B)(3) through (B)(8).
      (4)   This section does not apply to a person who conveys or attempts to
convey a handgun into, or possesses a handgun in, a school safety zone if at
the time of that conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession of the handgun
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person is carrying a valid concealed handgun license or the
person is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         (b)   The person leaves the handgun in a motor vehicle.
         (c)   The handgun does not leave the motor vehicle.
         (d)   If the person exits the motor vehicle, the person locks the
motor vehicle.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal possession of an
object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety zone. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, illegal possession of an object
indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety zone is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation
of this section, illegal possession of an object indistinguishable from a
firearm in a school safety zone is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   (1)   In addition to any other penalty imposed upon a person who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this section, and subject to
division (D)(2) of this section, if the offender has not attained 19 years of
age, regardless of whether the offender is attending or is enrolled in a school
operated by a board of education or for which the State Board of Education
prescribes minimum standards under R.C. § 3301.07, the court shall impose upon
the offender a class four suspension of the offender’s probationary driver’s
license, restricted license, driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, or probationary commercial driver’s license that
then is in effect from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4) and shall
deny the offender the issuance of any permit or license of that type during the
period of the suspension. If the offender is not a resident of this state, the
court shall impose a class four suspension of the nonresident operating
privilege of the offender from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (2)   If the offender shows good cause why the court should not suspend
one of the types of licenses, permits or privileges specified in division (D)
(1) of this section or deny the issuance of one of the temporary instruction
permits specified in division (D)(1) of this section, the court in its
discretion may choose not to impose the suspension, revocation or denial
required in division (D)(1) of this section, but the court, in its discretion,
instead may require the offender to perform community service for a number of
hours determined by the court.
   (E)   As used in this section, OBJECT THAT IS INDISTINGUISHABLE FROM A
FIREARM means an object made, constructed or altered so that, to a reasonable
person without specialized training in firearms, the object appears to be a
firearm.
(R.C. § 2923.122(C) - (G)) (Rev. 2018)
Statutory reference:
Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance in a school
safety zone, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122(A) and (B)
§ 137.12 POSSESSION OF DEADLY WEAPON WHILE UNDER DETENTION.
   (A)   As used in this section, DETENTION and DETENTION FACILITY have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 2921.01.
   (B)   No person under detention at a detention facility shall possess a
deadly weapon.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possession of a deadly
weapon while under detention.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) of this section,
possession of a deadly weapon while under detention is a felony to be
prosecuted under state law.
      (2)   If the offender, at the time of the commission of the offense, was
under detention as an alleged or adjudicated delinquent child or unruly child
and if at the time the offender commits the act for which the offender was
under detention it would not be a felony if committed by an adult, possession
of a deadly weapon while under detention is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2923.131) (Rev. 2002)
Statutory reference:
Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offenses, see R.C. §
2923.131
§ 137.13 CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSES: POSSESSION OF A REVOKED OR SUSPENDED
LICENSE; ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS; POSTING OF SIGNS PROHIBITING POSSESSION.
   (A)   Possession of a revoked or suspended concealed handgun license.
      (1)   No person, except in the performance of official duties, shall
possess a concealed handgun license that was issued and that has been revoked
or suspended.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of possessing a
revoked or suspended concealed handgun license, a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 2923.1211(B), (C)) (Rev. 2014)
   (B)   Additional restrictions. Pursuant to R.C. § 2923.126:
      (1)   (a)   A concealed handgun license that is issued under R.C. §
2923.125 shall expire five years after the date of issuance. A licensee who has
been issued a license under that section shall be granted a grace period of 30
days after the licensee’s license expires during which the licensee’s license
remains valid. Except as provided in divisions (B)(2) and (B)(3) of this
section, a licensee who has been issued a concealed handgun license under R.C.
§ 2923.125 or 2923.1213 may carry a concealed handgun anywhere in this state if
the licensee also carries a valid license when the licensee is in actual
possession of a concealed handgun. The licensee shall give notice of any change
in the licensee’s residence address to the sheriff who issued the license
within 45 days after that change.
         (b)   If a licensee is the driver or an occupant of a motor vehicle
that is stopped as the result of a traffic stop or a stop for another law
enforcement purpose and if the licensee is transporting or has a loaded handgun
in the motor vehicle at that time, the licensee shall promptly inform any law
enforcement officer who approaches the vehicle while stopped that the licensee
has been issued a concealed handgun license and that the licensee currently
possesses or has a loaded handgun; the licensee shall not knowingly disregard
or fail to comply with lawful orders of a law enforcement officer given while
the motor vehicle is stopped, knowingly fail to remain in the motor vehicle
while stopped, or knowingly fail to keep the licensee’s hands in plain sight
after any law enforcement officer begins approaching the licensee while stopped
and before the officer leaves, unless directed otherwise by a law enforcement
officer; and the licensee shall not knowingly have contact with the loaded
handgun by touching it with the licensee’s hands or fingers, in any manner in
violation of R.C. § 2923.16(E), after any law enforcement officer begins
approaching the licensee while stopped and before the officer leaves.
Additionally, if a licensee is the driver or an occupant of a commercial motor
vehicle that is stopped by an employee of the motor carrier enforcement unit
for the purposes defined in R.C. § 5503.34 and if the licensee is transporting
or has a loaded handgun in the commercial motor vehicle at that time, the
licensee shall promptly inform the employee of the unit who approaches the
vehicle while stopped that the licensee has been issued a concealed handgun
license and that the licensee currently possesses or has a loaded handgun.
         (c)   If a licensee is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and if
the licensee is carrying a concealed handgun at the time the officer
approaches, the licensee shall promptly inform any law enforcement officer who
approaches the licensee while stopped that the licensee has been issued a
concealed handgun license and that the licensee currently is carrying a
concealed handgun; the licensee shall not knowingly disregard or fail to comply
with lawful orders of a law enforcement officer given while the licensee is
stopped or knowingly fail to keep the licensee’s hands in plain sight after any
law enforcement officer begins approaching the licensee while stopped and
before the officer leaves, unless directed otherwise by a law enforcement
officer; and the licensee shall not knowingly remove, attempt to remove, grasp,
or hold the loaded handgun or knowingly have contact with the loaded handgun by
touching it with the licensee’s hands or fingers, in any manner in violation of
R.C. § 2923.12(B), after any law enforcement officer begins approaching the
licensee while stopped and before the officer leaves.
      (2)   A valid concealed handgun license does not authorize the licensee
to carry a concealed handgun in any manner prohibited under R.C. § 2923.12(B)
or in any manner prohibited under R.C. § 2923.16. A valid license does not
authorize the licensee to carry a concealed handgun into any of the following
places:
         (a)   A police station, sheriff’s office, or state highway patrol
station, premises controlled by the bureau of criminal identification and
investigation; a state correctional institution, jail, workhouse, or other
detention facility; any area of an airport passenger terminal that is beyond a
passenger or property screening checkpoint or to which access is restricted
through security measures by the airport authority or a public agency; or an
institution that is maintained, operated, managed, and governed pursuant to
R.C. § 5119.14(A) or R.C. § 5123.03(A)(1);
         (b)   A school safety zone if the licensee’s carrying the concealed
handgun is in violation of R.C. § 2923.122;
         (c)   A courthouse or another building or structure in which a
courtroom is located if the licensee’s carrying the concealed handgun is in
violation of R.C. § 2923.123;
         (d)   Any premises or open air arena for which a D permit has been
issued under R.C. Chapter 4303 if the licensee’s carrying the concealed handgun
is in violation of R.C. § 2923.121;
         (e)   Any premises owned or leased by any public or private college,
university, or other institution of higher education, unless the handgun is in
a locked motor vehicle or the licensee is in the immediate process of placing
the handgun in a locked motor vehicle or unless the licensee is carrying the
concealed handgun pursuant to a written policy, rule, or other authorization
that is adopted by the institution’s board of trustees or other governing body
and that authorizes specific individuals or classes of individuals to carry a
concealed handgun on the premises;
         (f)   Any church, synagogue, mosque, or other place of worship, unless
the church, synagogue, mosque, or other place of worship posts or permits
otherwise;
         (g)   Any building that is a government facility of this state or a
political subdivision of this state and that is not a building that is used
primarily as a shelter, restroom, parking facility for motor vehicles, or rest
facility and is not a courthouse or other building or structure in which a
courtroom is located that is subject to division (B)(2)(c) of this section,
unless the governing body with authority over the building has enacted a
statute, ordinance, or policy that permits a licensee to carry a concealed
handgun into the building;
         (h)   A place in which federal law prohibits the carrying of handguns.
      (3)   (a)   Nothing in this division (B) shall negate or restrict a rule,
policy, or practice of a private employer that is not a private college,
university, or other institution of higher education concerning or prohibiting
the presence of firearms on the private employer’s premises or property,
including motor vehicles owned by the private employer. Nothing in this
division (B) shall require a private employer of that nature to adopt a rule,
policy, or practice concerning or prohibiting the presence of firearms on the
private employer’s premises or property, including motor vehicles owned by the
private employer.
         (b)   1.   A private employer shall be immune from liability in a
civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that
allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto the
premises or property of the private employer, including motor vehicles owned by
the private employer, unless the private employer acted with malicious purpose.
A private employer is immune from liability in a civil action for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by or related to
the private employer’s decision to permit a licensee to bring, or prohibit a
licensee from bringing, a handgun onto the premises or property of the private
employer.
            2.   A political subdivision shall be immune from liability in a
civil action, to the extent and in the manner provided in R.C. Chapter 2744,
for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused
by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto any premises or property
owned, leased, or otherwise under the control of the political subdivision. As
used in this division, POLITICAL SUBDIVISION has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2744.01.
            3.    An institution of higher education shall be immune from
liability in a civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or
property that allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a
handgun onto the premises of the institution, including motor vehicles owned by
the institution, unless the institution acted with malicious purpose. An
institution of higher education is immune from liability in a civil action for
any injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by
or related to the institution’s decision to permit a licensee or class of
licensees to bring a handgun onto the premises of the institution.
            4.   A nonprofit corporation shall be immune from liability in a
civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that
allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto the
premises of the nonprofit corporation, including any motor vehicle owned by the
nonprofit corporation, or to any event organized by the nonprofit corporation,
unless the nonprofit corporation acted with malicious purpose. A nonprofit
corporation is immune from liability in a civil action for any injury, death,
or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by or related to the
nonprofit corporation’s decision to permit a licensee to bring a handgun onto
the premises of the nonprofit corporation or to any event organized by the
nonprofit corporation.
         (c)   1.   a.   Except as provided in division (B)(3)(c)2. of this
section and R.C. § 2923.1214, the owner or person in control of private land or
premises, and a private person or entity leasing land or premises owned by the
state, the United States, or a political subdivision of the state or the United
States, may post a sign in a conspicuous location on that land or on those
premises prohibiting persons from carrying firearms or concealed firearms on or
onto that land or those premises. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, a person who knowingly violates a posted prohibition of that nature
is guilty of criminal trespass in violation of R.C. § 2911.21(A)(4) and is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If a person knowingly violates a
posted prohibition of that nature and the posted land or premises primarily was
a parking lot or other parking facility, the person is not guilty of criminal
trespass under R.C. § 2911.21 or under any other criminal law of this state or
criminal law, ordinance, or resolution of a political subdivision of this
state, and instead is subject only to a civil cause of action for trespass
based on the violation.
               b.   If a person knowingly violates a posted prohibition of the
nature described in this division and the posted land or premises is a child
day-care center, type A family day-care home, or type B family day- care home,
unless the person is a licensee who resides in a type A family day-care home or
type B family day-care home, the person is guilty of aggravated trespass in
violation of R.C. § 2911.211. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the person
previously has been convicted of a violation of this division or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any offense of
violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is either loaded or for
which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the weapon involved is
dangerous ordnance, the offender is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
            2.   A landlord may not prohibit or restrict a tenant who is a
licensee and who on or after September 9, 2008 enters into a rental agreement
with the landlord for the use of residential premises, and the tenant’s guest
while the tenant is present, from lawfully carrying or possessing a handgun on
those residential premises.
            3.   As used in division (B)(3)(c) of this section:
               LANDLORD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
               RENTAL AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
               RESIDENTIAL PREMISES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01,
except the term does not include a dwelling unit that is owned or operated by a
college or university.
               TENANT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
      (4)   A person who holds a valid concealed handgun license issued by
another state that is recognized by the Attorney General pursuant to a
reciprocity agreement entered into pursuant to R.C. § 109.69 or a person who
holds a valid concealed handgun license under the circumstances described in
R.C. § 109.69(B) has the same right to carry a concealed handgun in this state
as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license under R.C. § 2923.125
and is subject to the same restrictions that apply to a person who carries a
license issued under that section.
      (5)   (a)   A peace officer has the same right to carry a concealed
handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license
under R.C. § 2923.125, provided that the officer when carrying a concealed
handgun under authority of this division is carrying validating identification.
For purposes of reciprocity with other states, a peace officer shall be
considered to be a licensee in this state.
         (b)   An active duty member of the armed forces of the United States
who is carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of
successful completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training
requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1) has the same right to carry a
concealed handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun
license under R.C. § 2923.125 and is subject to the same restrictions as
specified in this division (B).
         (c)   A tactical medical professional who is qualified to carry
firearms while on duty under R.C. § 109.771 has the same right to carry a
concealed handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun
license under R.C. § 2923.125.
      (6)   (a)   A qualified retired peace officer who possesses a retired
peace officer identification card issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(b) of this
section and a valid firearms requalification certification issued pursuant to
division (B)(6)(c) of this section has the same right to carry a concealed
handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license
under R.C. § 2923.125 and is subject to the same restrictions that apply to a
person who carries a license issued under that section. For purposes of
reciprocity with other states, a qualified retired peace officer who possesses
a retired peace officer identification card issued pursuant to division (B)(6)
(b) of this section and a valid firearms requalification certification issued
pursuant to division (B)(6)(c) of this section shall be considered to be a
licensee in this state.
         (b)   1.   Each public agency of this state or of a political
subdivision of this state that is served by one or more peace officers shall
issue a retired peace officer identification card to any person who retired
from service as a peace officer with that agency, if the issuance is in
accordance with the agency’s policies and procedures and if the person, with
respect to the person’s service with that agency, satisfies all of the
following:
               a.   The person retired in good standing from service as a peace
officer with the public agency, and the retirement was not for reasons of
mental instability.
               b.   Before retiring from service as a peace officer with that
agency, the person was authorized to engage in or supervise the prevention,
detection, investigation, or prosecution of, or the incarceration of any person
for, any violation of law and the person had statutory powers of arrest.
               c.   At the time of the person’s retirement as a peace officer
with that agency, the person was trained and qualified to carry firearms in the
performance of the peace officer’s duties.
               d.   Before retiring from service as a peace officer with that
agency, the person was regularly employed as a peace officer for an aggregate
of 15 years or more, or, in the alternative, the person retired from service as
a peace officer with that agency, after completing any applicable probationary
period of that service, due to a service-connected disability, as determined by
the agency.
            2.   A retired peace officer identification card issued to a person
under division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section shall identify the person by name,
contain a photograph of the person, identify the public agency of this state or
of the political subdivision of this state from which the person retired as a
peace officer and that is issuing the identification card, and specify that the
person retired in good standing from service as a peace officer with the
issuing public agency and satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)
(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(B)1.d. of this section. In addition to the required content
specified in this division, a retired peace officer identification card issued
to a person under division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section may include the firearms
requalification certification described in division (B)(6)(c) of this section,
and if the identification card includes that certification, the identification
card shall serve as the firearms requalification certification for the retired
peace officer. If the issuing public agency issues credentials to active law
enforcement officers who serve the agency, the agency may comply with division
(B)(6)(b)1. of this section by issuing the same credentials to persons who
retired from service as a peace officer with the agency and who satisfy the
criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section,
provided that the credentials so issued to retired peace officers are stamped
with the word “RETIRED”.
            3.   A public agency of this state or of a political subdivision of
this state may charge persons who retired from service as a peace officer with
the agency a reasonable fee for issuing to the person a retired peace officer
identification card pursuant to division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section.
         (c)   1.   If a person retired from service as a peace officer with a
public agency of this state or of a political subdivision of this state and the
person satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)
(b)1.d. of this section, the public agency may provide the retired peace
officer with the opportunity to attend a firearms requalification program that
is approved for purposes of firearms requalification required under R.C. §
109.801. The retired peace officer may be required to pay the cost of the
course.
            2.   If a retired peace officer who satisfies the criteria set
forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section attends a
firearms requalification program that is approved for purposes of firearms
requalification required under R.C. § 109.801, the retired peace officer’s
successful completion of the firearms requalification program requalifies the
retired peace officer for purposes of division (B)(6) of this section for five
years from the date on which the program was successfully completed, and the
requalification is valid during that five- year period. If a retired peace
officer who satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)
(6)(b)1.d. of this section satisfactorily completes such a firearms
requalification program, the retired peace officer shall be issued a firearms
requalification certification that identifies the retired peace officer by
name, identifies the entity that taught the program, specifies that the retired
peace officer successfully completed the program, specifies the date on which
the course was successfully completed, and specifies that the requalification
is valid for five years from that date of successful completion. The firearms
requalification certification for a retired peace officer may be included in
the retired peace officer identification card issued to the retired peace
officer under division (B)(6)(b) of this section.
            3.   A retired peace officer who attends a firearms requalification
program that is approved for purposes of firearms requalification required
under R.C. § 109.801 may be required to pay the cost of the program.
      (7)   As used in division (B) of this section:
         GOVERNING BODY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 154.01.
         GOVERNMENT FACILITY OF THIS STATE OR A POLITICAL SUBDIVISION OF THIS
STATE. Means any of the following:
            1.   A building or part of a building that is owned or leased by
the government of this state or a political subdivision of this state and where
employees of the government of this state or the political subdivision
regularly are present for the purpose of performing their official duties as
employees of the state or political subdivision;
            2.   The office of a deputy registrar serving pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 4503 that is used to perform deputy registrar functions.
         NONPROFIT CORPORATION. Means any private organization that is exempt
from federal income taxation pursuant to subsection 501(a) and described in
subsection 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code.
         QUALIFIED RETIRED PEACE OFFICER. Means a person who satisfies all of
the following:
            1.   The person satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)
(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section.
            2.   The person is not under the influence of alcohol or another
intoxicating or hallucinatory drug or substance.
            3.   The person is not prohibited by federal law from receiving
firearms.
         RETIRED PEACE OFFICER IDENTIFICATION CARD. Means an identification
card that is issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(b) of this section to a person
who is a retired peace officer.
         TACTICAL MEDICAL PROFESSIONAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
109.71.
         VALIDATING IDENTIFICATION. Means photographic identification issued by
the agency for which an individual serves as a peace officer that identifies
the individual as a peace officer of the agency.
(R.C. § 2923.126) (Rev. 2022)
   (C)   Posting of signs prohibiting possession. Each person, board, or entity
that owns or controls any place or premises identified in R.C. § 2923.126(B) as
a place into which a valid license does not authorize the licensee to carry a
concealed handgun, or a designee of such a person, board, or entity, shall post
in the following one or more conspicuous locations in the premises a sign that
contains a statement in substantially the following form: “Unless otherwise
authorized by law, pursuant to the Ohio Revised Code, no person shall knowingly
possess, have under the person’s control, convey, or attempt to convey a deadly
weapon or dangerous ordnance onto these premises.”
(R.C. § 2923.1212) (Rev. 2020)
§ 137.14 DEFACED FIREARMS.
   (A)   No person shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Change, alter, remove, or obliterate the name of the manufacturer,
model, manufacturer’s serial number, or other mark of identification on a
firearm.
      (2)   Possess a firearm knowing or having reasonable cause to believe
that the name of the manufacturer, model, manufacturer’s serial number, or
other mark of identification on the firearm has been changed, altered, removed,
or obliterated.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of
defacing identification marks of a firearm. Except as otherwise provided in
this division, defacing identification marks of a firearm is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A)(1) of this section, defacing
identification marks of a firearm is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of
possessing a defaced firearm. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
possessing a defaced firearm is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
division (A)(2) of this section, possessing a defaced firearm is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any firearm on which no
manufacturer’s serial number was inscribed at the time of its manufacture.
(R.C. § 2923.201) (Rev. 2007)
CHAPTER 138: DRUG OFFENSES
Section
   
138.01   Definitions
   
138.02   Trafficking in controlled substances; gift of marihuana
   
138.03   Drug possession offenses
   
138.04   Possessing drug abuse instruments
   
138.05   Permitting drug abuse
   
138.06   Illegal cultivation of marihuana
   
138.07   Abusing harmful intoxicants
   
138.08   Illegal dispensing of drug samples
   
138.09   Federal prosecution bar to municipal prosecution
   
138.10   Nitrous oxide: improper dispensing or distribution; possession in a
motor vehicle
   
138.11   Laboratory report required
   
138.12   Counterfeit controlled substances
   
138.13   Use, possession, or sale of drug paraphernalia
   
138.14   Controlled substance or prescription labels
   
138.15   Possession, sale and disposal of hypodermics
   
138.16   Controlled substance schedules
   
138.17   Unlawful furnishing of prescription to enable persons to be issued
handicapped parking placards or license plates
   
138.18   Pseudoephedrine sales
   
138.19   Sale of pure caffeine product
Statutory reference:
Administration of epinephrine, exemption from prosecution, see R.C. § 2925.64
Controlled substances, regulation of pharmacists and other professionals, see
R.C. Chapters 3719 and 4729
Conviction of professionally licensed persons to be reported to licensing
board, see R.C. § 2925.38
Criminal and civil forfeiture of property for felony drug abuse offenses, see
R.C. Chapter 2981
Destruction of chemicals used to produce methamphetamine; preservation of
samples, see R.C. § 2925.52
Tampering with drugs, felony offense, see R.C. § 2925.24
§ 138.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words,
terms and phrases and their derivatives used in this chapter which are not
defined in this section shall have the meanings given to them in the Ohio
Revised Code.
   ADMINISTER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   ADULTERATE. To cause a drug to be adulterated as described in R.C. §
3715.63.
   BULK AMOUNT. Of a controlled substance means any of the following:
      (1)   For any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance included in
Schedule I, Schedule II, or Schedule III, with the exception of any controlled
substance analog, marihuana, cocaine, L.S.D., heroin, any fentanyl-related
compound, and hashish and except as provided in division (2), (5), or (6) of
this definition, whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   An amount equal to or exceeding ten grams or 25 unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule I opiate or opium derivative;
         (b)   An amount equal to or exceeding ten grams of a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of raw or gum
opium;
         (c)   An amount equal to or exceeding 30 grams or ten unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule I hallucinogen other than tetrahydrocannabinol or lysergic acid
amide, or a Schedule I stimulant or depressant;
         (d)   An amount equal to or exceeding 20 grams or five times the
maximum daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard
pharmaceutical reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule II opiate or opium
derivative;
         (e)   An amount equal to or exceeding five grams or ten unit doses of
a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount
of phencyclidine;
         (f)   An amount equal to or exceeding 120 grams or 30 times the
maximum daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard
pharmaceutical reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule II stimulant that is in
a final dosage form manufactured by a person authorized by the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended) and the federal
drug abuse control laws, as defined in this section, that is or contains any
amount of a Schedule II depressant substance or a Schedule II hallucinogenic
substance;
         (g)   An amount equal to or exceeding three grams of a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule
II stimulant, or any of its salts or isomers, that is not in a final dosage
form manufactured by a person authorized by the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended) and the federal drug abuse
control laws;
      (2)   An amount equal to or exceeding 120 grams or 30 times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III or IV substance other than an anabolic
steroid or a Schedule III opiate or opium derivative;
      (3)   An amount equal to or exceeding 20 grams or five times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III opiate or opium derivative;
      (4)   An amount equal to or exceeding 250 milliliters or 250 grams of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule V substance;
      (5)   An amount equal to or exceeding 200 solid dosage units, 16 grams,
or 16 milliliters of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III anabolic steroid;
      (6)   For any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is a
combination of a fentanyl-related compound and any other compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V,
if the defendant is charged with a violation of R.C. § 2925.11 and the
sentencing provisions set forth in R.C. § 2925.11(C)(10)(b) and (C)(11) will
not apply regarding the defendant and the violation, the bulk amount of the
controlled substance for purposes of the violation is the amount specified in
division (1), (2), (3), (4), or (5) of this definition for the other Schedule
III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V controlled substance that is combined with the
fentanyl-related compound.
   CERTIFIED GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE. A duly constituted and organized committee of
the Ohio State Bar Association or of one or more local bar associations of the
state that complies with the criteria set forth in Rule V, Section 6 of the
Rules for the Government of the Bar of Ohio.
   COCAINE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A cocaine salt, isomer, or derivative, a salt of a cocaine isomer
or derivative, or the base form of cocaine.
      (2)   Coca leaves or a salt, compound, derivative, or preparation of coca
leaves, including ecgonine, a salt, isomer, or derivative of ecgonine, or a
salt of an isomer or derivative of ecgonine.
      (3)   A salt, compound, derivative, or preparation of a substance
identified in division (1) or (2) of this definition that is chemically
equivalent to or identical with any of those substances, except that the
substances shall not include decocainized coca leaves or extraction of coca
leaves if the extractions do not contain cocaine or ecgonine.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A JUVENILE. An offense is “committed in the
vicinity of a juvenile” if the offender commits the offense within 100 feet of
a juvenile or within the view of a juvenile, regardless of whether the offender
knows the age of the juvenile, whether the offender knows the offense is being
committed within 100 feet of or within view of the juvenile, or whether the
juvenile actually views the commission of the offense.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SCHOOL. An offense is “committed in the
vicinity of a school” if the offender commits the offense on school premises,
in a school building, or within 1,000 feet of the boundaries of any school
premises, regardless of whether the offender knows the offense is being
committed on school premises, in a school building, or within 1,000 feet of the
boundaries of any school premises.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE ANALOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   COUNTERFEIT CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any drug that bears, or whose container or label bears, a
trademark, trade name, or other identifying mark used without authorization of
the owner of rights to the trademark, trade name, or identifying mark.
      (2)   Any unmarked or unlabeled substance that is represented to be a
controlled substance manufactured, processed, packed, or distributed by a
person other than the person that manufactured, processed, packed, or
distributed it.
      (3)   Any substance that is represented to be a controlled substance but
is not a controlled substance or is a different controlled substance.
      (4)   Any substance other than a controlled substance that a reasonable
person would believe to be a controlled substance because of its similarity in
shape, size, and color, or its markings, labeling, packaging, distribution, or
the price for which it is sold or offered for sale.
   CULTIVATE. Includes planting, watering, fertilizing or tilling.
   DANGEROUS DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DECEPTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   DISCIPLINARY COUNSEL. The disciplinary counsel appointed by the Board of
Commissioners on Grievances and Discipline of the Ohio Supreme Court under the
Rules for the Government of the Bar of Ohio.
   DISPENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   DISTRIBUTE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2913.02(A) that constitutes theft of drugs,
or any violation of R.C. § 2925.02, 2925.03, 2925.04, 2925.041, 2925.05,
2925.06, 2925.11, 2925.12, 2925.13, 2925.22, 2925.23, 2925.24, 2925.31,
2925.32, 2925.36, or 2925.37.
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former law of a municipality, state
or any other state or of the United States, that is substantially equivalent to
any section listed in division (1) of this definition.
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former law of a municipality, state
or any other state, or of the United States, of which planting, cultivating,
harvesting, processing, making, manufacturing, producing, shipping,
transporting, delivering, acquiring, possessing, storing, distributing,
dispensing, selling, inducing another to use, administering to another, using,
or otherwise dealing with a controlled substance is an element.
      (4)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing or attempting to commit, any offense under division (1), (2), or (3)
of this definition.
   DRUG DEPENDENT PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
   DRUG OF ABUSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
   FELONY DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Any drug abuse offense that would constitute a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state, or the United States.
   FENTANYL-RELATED COMPOUND. Any of the following:
      (1)   Fentanyl;
      (2)   Alpha-methylfentanyl (N-[1-(alpha-methyl- beta-phenyl)ethyl-4-
piperidyl] propionanilide; 1-(1-methyl-2- phenylethyl)-4-(N-propanilido)
piperidine);
      (3)   Alpha-methylthiofentanyl (N-[1-methyl-2-(2- thienyl)ethyl-4-
piperidinyl]-N-phenylpropanamide);
      (4)   Beta-hydroxyfentanyl (N-[1-(2-hydroxy-2- phenethyl-4-piperidinyl]-
N-phenylpropanamide);
      (5)   Beta-hydroxy-3-methylfentanyl (other name: N-[1-(2-hydroxy-2-
phenethyl)-3-methyl-4-piperidinyl]-N- phenylpropanamide);
      (6)   3-methylfentanyl (N-[3-methyl-1-(2- phenylethyl)-4-piperidyl]-N-
phenylpropanamide);
      (7)   3-methylthiofentanyl (N-[3-methyl-1-[2- (thienyl)ethyl]-4-
piperidinyl]-– phenylpropanamide);
      (8)   Para-fluorofentanyl (N-(4-fluorophenyl)-N- [1-(2-phenethyl)-4-
piperidinyl]propanamide;
      (9)   Thiofentanyl (N-phenyl-N-[1-(2- thienyl)ethyl-4-piperidinyl]-
propanamide;
      (10)   Alfentanil;
      (11)   Carfentanil;
      (12)   Remifentanil;
      (13)   Sufentanil;
      (14)   Acetyl-alpha-methylfentanyl (N-[1-(1- methyl-2-phenethyl)-4-
piperidinyl]-N-phenylacetamide); and
      (15)   Any compound that meets all of the following fentanyl
pharmacophore requirements to bind at the mu receptor, as identified by a
report from an established forensic laboratory, including acetylfentanyl,
furanylfentanyl, valerylfentanyl, butyrylfentanyl, isobutyrylfentanyl, 4-
methoxybutyrylfentanyl, para- fluorobutyrylfentanyl, acrylfentanyl, and ortho-
fluorofentanyl:
         (a)   A chemical scaffold consisting of both of the following:
            1.   A five, six, or seven member ring structure containing a
nitrogen, whether or not further substituted;
            2.   An attached nitrogen to the ring, whether or not that nitrogen
is enclosed in a ring structure, including an attached aromatic ring or other
lipophilic group to that nitrogen.
         (b)   A polar functional group attached to the chemical scaffold,
including but not limited to a hydroxyl, ketone, amide, or ester;
         (c)   An alkyl or aryl substitution off the ring nitrogen of the
chemical scaffold; and
         (d)   The compound has not been approved for medical use by the United
States food and drug administration.
   HARMFUL INTOXICANT. Does not include beer or intoxicating liquor, but means
any of the following:
      (1)   Any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance the gas, fumes, or
vapor of which when inhaled can induce intoxication, excitement, giddiness,
irrational behavior, depression, stupefaction, paralysis, unconsciousness,
asphyxiation, or other harmful physiological effects, and includes but is not
limited to any of the following:
         (a)   Any volatile organic solvent, plastic cement, model cement,
fingernail polish remover, lacquer thinner, cleaning fluid, gasoline, or other
preparation containing a volatile organic solvent.
         (b)   Any aerosol propellant.
         (c)   Any fluorocarbon refrigerant.
         (d)   Any anesthetic gas.
      (2)   Gamma Butyrolactone;
      (3)   1,4 Butanediol.
   HASHISH.
      (1)   A resin or a preparation of a resin to which both of the following
apply:
         (a)   It is contained in or derived from any part of the plant of the
genus cannabis, whether in solid form or in a liquid concentrate, liquid
extract, or liquid distillate form.
         (b)   It has a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of more than
0.3%.
      (2)   The term does not include a hemp byproduct in the possession of a
licensed hemp processor under R.C. Chapter 928, provided that the hemp
byproduct is being produced, stored, and disposed of in accordance with rules
adopted under R.C. § 928.03.
   HYPODERMIC. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   JUVENILE. A person under 18 years of age.
   LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS. Has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   L.S.D. Lysergic acid diethylamide.
   MAJOR DRUG OFFENDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   MANDATORY PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   MANUFACTURE. To plant, cultivate, harvest, process, make, prepare, or
otherwise engage in any part of the production of a drug, by propagation,
extraction, chemical synthesis, or compounding, or any combination of the same,
and includes packaging, repackaging, labeling, and other activities incident to
production.
   MANUFACTURER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   MARIHUANA. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01, except that it does
not include hashish.
   METHAMPHETAMINE. Methamphetamine, any salt, isomer, or salt of an isomer of
methamphetamine, or any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance containing
methamphetamine or any salt, isomer, or salt of an isomer of methamphetamine.
   MINOR DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSE. Either of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2925.11 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996,
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   A violation of R.C. § 2925.11 as it exists on and after July 1,
1996, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that is a misdemeanor
or a felony of the fifth degree.
   OFFICIAL WRITTEN ORDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PHARMACIST. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PHARMACY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   POSSESS or POSSESSION. Having control over a thing or substance but may not
be inferred solely from mere access to the thing or substance through ownership
or occupation of the premises upon which the thing or substance is found.
   PRESCRIPTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   PRESUMPTION FOR A PRISON TERM or PRESUMPTION THAT A PRISON TERM SHALL BE
IMPOSED. A presumption as described in R.C. § 2929.13(D) that a prison term is
a necessary sanction for a felony in order to comply with the purposes and
principles of sentencing under R.C. § 2929.11.
   PROFESSIONAL LICENSE. Any license, permit, certificate, registration,
qualification, admission, temporary license, temporary permit, temporary
certificate, or temporary registration that is described in R.C. § 2925.01(W)
(1) through (W)(37) and that qualifies a person as a professionally licensed
person.
   PROFESSIONALLY LICENSED PERSON. Any of the following:
      (1)   A person who has received a certificate or temporary certificate as
a certified public accountant or who has registered as a public accountant
under R.C. Chapter 4701 and who holds an Ohio permit issued under that chapter;
      (2)   A person who holds a certificate of qualification to practice
architecture issued or renewed and registered under R.C. Chapter 4703;
      (3)   A person who is registered as a landscape architect under R.C.
Chapter 4703 or who holds a permit as a landscape architect issued under that
chapter;
      (4)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4707;
      (5)   A person who has been issued a certificate of registration as a
registered barber under R.C. Chapter 4709;
      (6)   A person licensed and regulated to engage in the business of a debt
pooling company by a legislative authority, under authority of R.C. Chapter
4710;
      (7)   A person who has been issued a cosmetologist’s license, hair
designer’s license, manicurist’s license, esthetician’s license, natural hair
stylist’s license, advanced cosmetologist’s license, advanced hair designer’s
license, advanced manicurist’s license, advanced esthetician’s license,
advanced natural hair stylist’s license, cosmetology instructor’s license, hair
design instructor’s license, manicurist instructor’s license, esthetics
instructor’s license, natural hair style instructor’s license, independent
contractor’s license, or tanning facility permit under R.C. Chapter 4713;
      (8)   A person who has been issued a license to practice dentistry, a
general anesthesia permit, a conscious sedation permit, a limited resident’s
license, a limited teaching license, a dental hygienist’s license, or a dental
hygienist’s teacher’s certificate under R.C. Chapter 4715;
      (9)   A person who has been issued an embalmer’s license, a funeral
director’s license, a funeral home license, or a crematory license, or who has
been registered for an embalmer’s or funeral director’s apprenticeship under
R.C. Chapter 4717;
      (10)   A person who has been licensed as a registered nurse or practical
nurse, or who has been issued a certificate for the practice of nurse-midwifery
under R.C. Chapter 4723;
      (11)   A person who has been licensed to practice optometry or to engage
in optical dispensing under R.C. Chapter 4725;
      (12)   A person licensed to act as a pawnbroker under R.C. Chapter 4727;
      (13)   A person licensed to act as a precious metals dealer under R.C.
Chapter 4728;
      (14)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 as a pharmacist or
pharmacy intern or registered under that chapter as a registered pharmacy
technician, certified pharmacy technician, or pharmacy technician trainee;
      (15)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 as a manufacturer of
dangerous drugs, outsourcing facility, third-party logistics provider,
repackager of dangerous drugs, wholesale distributor of dangerous drugs, or
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs;
      (16)   A person who is authorized to practice as a physician assistant
under R.C. Chapter 4730;
      (17)   A person who has been issued a license to practice medicine and
surgery, osteopathic medicine and surgery, or podiatric medicine and surgery
under R.C. Chapter 4731 or has been issued a certificate to practice a limited
branch of medicine under that chapter;
      (18)   A person licensed as a psychologist or school psychologist under
R.C. Chapter 4732;
      (19)   A person registered to practice the profession of engineering or
surveying under R.C. Chapter 4733;
      (20)   A person who has been issued a license to practice chiropractic
under R.C. Chapter 4734;
      (21)   A person licensed to act as a real estate broker or real estate
salesperson under R.C. Chapter 4735;
      (22)   A person registered as a registered environmental health
specialist under R.C. Chapter 4736;
      (23)   A person licensed to operate or maintain a junkyard under R.C.
Chapter 4737;
      (24)   A person who has been issued a motor vehicle salvage dealer’s
license under R.C. Chapter 4738;
      (25)   A person who has been licensed to act as a steam engineer under
R.C. Chapter 4739;
      (26)   A person who has been issued a license or temporary permit to
practice veterinary medicine or any of its branches, or who is registered as a
graduate animal technician under R.C. Chapter 4741;
      (27)   A person who has been issued a hearing aid dealer’s or fitter’s
license or trainee permit under R.C. Chapter 4747;
      (28)   A person who has been issued a class A, class B, or class C
license or who has been registered as an investigator or security guard
employee under R.C. Chapter 4749;
      (29)   A person licensed to practice as a nursing home administrator
under R.C. Chapter 4751;
      (30)   A person licensed to practice as a speech- language pathologist or
audiologist under R.C. Chapter 4753;
      (31)   A person issued a license as an occupational therapist or physical
therapist under R.C. Chapter 4755;
      (32)   A person who is licensed as a licensed professional clinical
counselor, licensed professional counselor, social worker, independent social
worker, independent marriage and family therapist, or marriage and family
therapist, or registered as a social work assistant under R.C. Chapter 4757;
      (33)   A person issued a license to practice dietetics under R.C. Chapter
4759;
      (34)   A person who has been issued a license or limited permit to
practice respiratory therapy under R.C. Chapter 4761;
      (35)   A person who has been issued a real estate appraiser certificate
under R.C. Chapter 4763;
      (36)   A person who has been issued a home inspector license under R.C.
Chapter 4764;
      (37)   A person who has been admitted to the bar by order of the Ohio
Supreme Court in compliance with its prescribed and published rules.
   PUBLIC PREMISES. Any hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall, or other
place of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort.
   SALE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   SAMPLE DRUG. A drug or pharmaceutical preparation that would be hazardous to
health or safety if used without the supervision of a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs, or a drug of abuse, and that, at
one time, had been placed in a container plainly marked as a sample by a
manufacturer.
   SCHEDULE I, SCHEDULE II, SCHEDULE III, SCHEDULE IV or SCHEDULE V. Have the
same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   SCHOOL. Any school operated by a board of education, any community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314, or any nonpublic school for which the
State Board of Education prescribes minimum standards under R.C. § 3301.07,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training
provided by the school is being conducted at the time a criminal offense is
committed.
   SCHOOL BUILDING. Any building in which any of the instruction,
extracurricular activities, or training provided by a school is conducted,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training
provided by the school is being conducted in the school building at the time a
criminal offense is committed.
   SCHOOL PREMISES. Either of the following:
      (1)   The parcel of real property on which any school is situated,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training
provided by the school is being conducted on the premises at the time a
criminal offense is committed.
      (2)   Any other parcel of real property that is owned or leased by a
board of education of a school, the governing authority of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314, or the governing body of a nonpublic
school for which the State Board of Education prescribes minimum standards
under R.C. § 3301.07 and on which some of the instruction, extracurricular
activities, or training of the school is conducted, whether or not any
instruction, extracurricular activities, or training provided by the school is
being conducted on the parcel of real property at the time a criminal offense
is committed.
   STANDARD PHARMACEUTICAL REFERENCE MANUAL. The current edition, with
cumulative changes if any, of references that are approved by the State Board
of Pharmacy.
   UNIT DOSE. An amount or unit or a compound, mixture, or preparation
containing a controlled substance that is separately identifiable and in a form
that indicates that it is the amount or unit by which the controlled substance
is separately administered to or taken by an individual.
   WHOLESALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
(R.C.§
2925.01) (Rev. 2021)
§ 138.02 TRAFFICKING IN CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES; GIFT OF MARIHUANA.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Sell or offer to sell a controlled substance or a controlled
substance analog;
      (2)   Prepare for shipment, ship, transport, deliver, prepare for
distribution, or distribute a controlled substance or a controlled substance
analog, when the offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
controlled substance or a controlled substance analog is intended for sale or
resale by the offender or another person.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Manufacturers, licensed health professionals authorized to
prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, and other persons whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731,
and 4741.
      (2)   If the offense involves an anabolic steroid, any person who is
conducting or participating in a research project involving the use of an
anabolic steroid if the project has been approved by the United States Food and
Drug Administration.
      (3)   Any person who sells, offers for sale, prescribes, dispenses, or
administers for livestock or other nonhuman species an anabolic steroid that is
expressly intended for administration through implants to livestock or other
nonhuman species and approved for that purpose under the “Federal Food, Drug
and Cosmetic Act” (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended), and is sold, offered
for sale, prescribed, dispensed, or administered for that purpose in accordance
with that Act.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of the
following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (C)(2) and (C)(3) of this
section, trafficking in controlled substances is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the offense
involves a gift of 20 grams or less of marihuana, trafficking in marihuana is a
minor misdemeanor upon a first offense and a misdemeanor of the third degree
upon a subsequent offense. If the offense involves a gift of 20 grams or less
of marihuana and if the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school or in
the vicinity of a juvenile, trafficking in marihuana is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl-related compound
and marihuana, one of the following applies:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of trafficking in marihuana and shall be
punished under division (C)(2) of this section. The offender is not guilty of
trafficking in a fentanyl-related compound and shall not be charged with,
convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.03(C)(9) for trafficking in a
fentanyl-related compound.
         (b)   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of trafficking in a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.03(C)(9).
   (D)   As used in this section, “drug” includes any substance that is
represented to be a drug.
(R.C. § 2925.03(A) - (C), (I)) (Rev. 2020)
Statutory reference:
Felony drug trafficking offenses, see R.C. § 2925.03(C)
§ 138.03 DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly obtain, possess, or use a controlled
substance or a controlled substance analog.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   Manufacturers, licensed health professionals authorized to
prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, and other persons whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731,
and 4741.
         (b)   If the offense involves an anabolic steroid, any person who is
conducting or participating in a research project involving the use of an
anabolic steroid if the project has been approved by the United States Food and
Drug Administration.
         (c)   Any person who sells, offers for sale, prescribes, dispenses, or
administers for livestock or other nonhuman species an anabolic steroid that is
expressly intended for administration through implants to livestock or other
nonhuman species and approved for that purpose under the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act, and is sold, offered for sale, prescribed, dispensed, or
administered for that purpose in accordance with that Act.
         (d)   Any person who obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs if the prescription was issued for a legitimate medical purpose and not
altered, forged, or obtained through deception or commission of a theft
offense. As used in this division (B)(1)(d), “deception” and “theft offense”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (2)   (a)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section:
            COMMUNITY ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 5119.01.
            COMMUNITY CONTROL SANCTION. Has the same meanings as in R.C. §
2929.01
            DRUG TREATMENT PROGRAM. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 2929.01.
            HEALTH CARE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2919.16.
            MINOR DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSE. A violation of this section or R.C.
§ 2925.11 that is a misdemeanor or a felony of the fifth degree.
            PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
            POST-RELEASE CONTROL SANCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2967.28.
            PUBLIC AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2930.01.
            QUALIFIED INDIVIDUAL. A person who is not on community control or
post-release control and is a person acting in good faith who seeks or obtains
medical assistance for another person who is experiencing a drug overdose, a
person who experiences a drug overdose and who seeks medical assistance for
that overdose, or a person who is the subject of another person seeking or
obtaining medical assistance for that overdose as described in division (B)(2)
(b) of this section.
            SEEK OR OBTAIN MEDICAL ASSISTANCE. Includes, but is not limited to
making a 9-1-1 call, contacting in person or by telephone call an on- duty
peace officer, or transporting or presenting a person to a health care
facility.
         (b)   Subject to division (B)(2)(f) of this section, a qualified
individual shall not be arrested, charged, prosecuted, convicted, or penalized
pursuant to this chapter for a minor drug possession offense if all of the
following apply:
            1.   The evidence of the obtaining, possession, or use of the
controlled substance or controlled substance analog that would be the basis of
the offense was obtained as a result of the qualified individual seeking the
medical assistance or experiencing an overdose and needing medical assistance.
            2.   Subject to division (B)(2)(g) of this section, within 30 days
after seeking or obtaining the medical assistance, the qualified individual
seeks and obtains a screening and receives a referral for treatment from a
community addiction services provider or a properly credentialed addiction
treatment professional.
            3.   Subject to division (B)(2)(g) of this section, the qualified
individual who obtains a screening and receives a referral for treatment under
division (B)(2)(b)2. of this section, upon the request of any prosecuting
attorney, submits documentation to the prosecuting attorney that verifies that
the qualified individual satisfied the requirements of that division. The
documentation shall be limited to the date and time of the screening obtained
and referral received.
         (c)   If a person is found to be in violation of any community control
sanction and if the violation is a result of either of the following, the court
shall first consider ordering the person’s participation or continued
participation in a drug treatment program or mitigating the penalty specified
in R.C. § 2929.13, 2929.15, or 2929.25, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, whichever is applicable, after which the court has the
discretion either to order the person’s participation or continued
participation in a drug treatment program or to impose the penalty with the
mitigating factor specified in any of those applicable sections:
            1.   Seeking or obtaining medical assistance in good faith for
another person who is experiencing a drug overdose;
            2.   Experiencing a drug overdose and seeking medical assistance
for that overdose or being the subject of another person seeking or obtaining
medical assistance for that overdose as described in division (B)(2)(b) of this
section.
         (d)   If a person is found to be in violation of any post-release
control sanction and if the violation is a result of either of the following,
the court or the parole board shall first consider ordering the person’s
participation or continued participation in a drug treatment program or
mitigating the penalty specified in R.C. § 2929.141 or 2967.28, whichever is
applicable, after which the court or the parole board has the discretion either
to order the person’s participation or continued participation in a drug
treatment program or to impose the penalty with the mitigating factor specified
in either of those applicable sections:
            1.   Seeking or obtaining medical assistance in good faith for
another person who is experiencing a drug overdose;
            2.   Experiencing a drug overdose and seeking medical assistance
for that emergency or being the subject of another person seeking or obtaining
medical assistance for that overdose as described in division (B)(2)(b) of this
section.
         (e)   Nothing in division (B)(2)(b) of this section shall be construed
to do any of the following:
            1.   Limit the admissibility of any evidence in connection with the
investigation or prosecution of a crime with regards to a defendant who does
not qualify for the protections of division (B)(2)(b) of this section or with
regards to any crime other than a minor drug possession offense committed by a
person who qualifies for protection pursuant to division (B)(2)(b) of this
section for a minor drug possession offense;
            2.   Limit any seizure of evidence or contraband otherwise
permitted by law;
            3.   Limit or abridge the authority of a peace officer to detain or
take into custody a person in the course of an investigation or to effectuate
an arrest for any offense except as provided in that division;
            4.   Limit, modify, or remove any immunity from liability available
pursuant to law in effect prior to September 13, 2016 to any public agency or
to an employee of any public agency.
         (f)   Division (B)(2)(b) of this section does not apply to any person
who twice previously has been granted an immunity under division (B)(2)(b) of
this section. No person shall be granted an immunity under division (B)(2)(b)
of this section more than two times.
         (g)   Nothing in this section shall compel any qualified individual to
disclose protected health information in a way that conflicts with the
requirements of the “Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of
1996”, 104 Pub. L. No. 191, 110 Stat. 2021, 42 U.S.C. §§ 1320d et seq., as
amended, and regulations promulgated by the United States Department of Health
and Human Services to implement the act or the requirements of 42 C.F.R. Part
2.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of one of the
following:
      (1)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule I or Schedule II, with the
exception of marihuana or hashish, whoever violates division (A) of this
section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V,
whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of drugs.
The penalty for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2)(b) of this
section, possession of drugs is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the
offender previously has been convicted of a drug abuse offense, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds the bulk
amount, possession of drugs is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the violation is marihuana or a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance containing marihuana other than hashish,
whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of
marihuana. The penalty for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) or (C)(3)(c)
of this section, possession of marihuana is a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 100 grams
but is less than 200 grams, possession of marihuana is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
         (c)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 200 grams,
possession of marihuana is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (4)   If the drug involved in the violation is hashish or a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance containing hashish, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of hashish. The penalty
for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(4)(b) or (C)(4)(c)
of this section, possession of hashish is a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds five grams
but is less than ten grams of hashish in a solid form or equals or exceeds one
gram but is less than two grams of hashish in a liquid concentrate, liquid
extract, or liquid distillate form, possession of hashish is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
         (c)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds ten grams
of hashish in a solid form or equals or exceeds two grams of hashish in a
liquid concentrate, liquid extract, or liquid distillate form, possession of
hashish is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl-related compound
and marihuana, one of the following applies:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(5)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of possession of marihuana and shall be
punished as provided in division (C)(3) of this section. Except as otherwise
provided in division (C)(5)(b) of this section, the offender is not guilty of
possession of a fentanyl-related compound under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) and shall
not be charged with, convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) for
possession of a fentanyl-related compound.
         (b)   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of possession of a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11).
      (6)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl-related compound
and any Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V controlled substance that is
not a fentanyl-related compound, one of the following applies:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(6)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of possession of drugs and shall be punished as
provided in division (C)(2) of this section. Except as otherwise provided in
division (C)(6)(b) of this section, the offender is not guilty of possession of
a fentanyl-related compound under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) and shall not be
charged with, convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) for
possession of a fentanyl-related compound.
         (b)   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of possession of a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11).
   (D)   Arrest or conviction for a minor misdemeanor violation of this section
does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s criminal
record, including any inquiries contained in any application for employment,
license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s
appearance as a witness.
   (E)   (1)   In addition to any prison term or jail term authorized or
required by division (C) of this section and R.C. §§ 2929.13, 2929.14, 2929.22,
2929.24, and 2929.25, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
in addition to any other sanction that is imposed for the offense under this
section, R.C. §§ 2929.11 through 2929.18, or R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court that sentences
an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (A)
of this section may suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit for not more than five years. However, if the offender
pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another state or the
United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the violation,
the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or permit for not more than five years.
      (2)   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition to
any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
   (F)   (1)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
      (2)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (F) of this section, the
sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.11) (Rev. 2020)
Statutory reference:
Felony drug possession offenses, see R.C. § 2925.11(C)
§ 138.04 POSSESSING DRUG ABUSE INSTRUMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make, obtain, possess, or use any
instrument, article, or thing the customary and primary purpose of which is for
the administration or use of a dangerous drug, other than marihuana, when the
instrument involved is a hypodermic or syringe, whether or not of crude or
extemporized manufacture or assembly, and the instrument, article, or thing
involved has been used by the offender to unlawfully administer or use a
dangerous drug, other than marihuana, or to prepare a dangerous drug, other
than marihuana, for unlawful administration or use.
   (B)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, licensed health
professionals authorized to prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies,
and other persons whose conduct was in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719,
4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, and 4741.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing drug abuse
instruments, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a drug abuse offense, violation of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (D)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.12) (Rev. 2020)
§ 138.05 PERMITTING DRUG ABUSE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner, operator, or person in charge of a
locomotive, watercraft, aircraft, or other vehicle, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, shall knowingly permit the vehicle to be used for the commission of a
felony drug abuse offense.
   (B)   No person, who is the owner, lessee, or occupant, or who has custody,
control, or supervision of premises, or real estate, including vacant land,
shall knowingly permit his or her premises, or real estate, including vacant
land, to be used for the commission of a felony drug abuse offense by another
person.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of permitting drug abuse.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, permitting
drug abuse is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Permitting drug abuse is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the felony drug abuse offense in question is a
violation of R.C. § 2925.02, 2925.03, or 2925.04, or if the felony drug abuse
offense in question is a violation of R.C. § 2925.041 and the offender had
actual knowledge, at the time the offender permitted the vehicle, premises, or
real estate to be used as described in division (A) or (B) of this section,
that the person who assembled or possessed the chemicals in question in
violation of R.C. § 2925.041 had assembled or possessed them with the intent to
manufacture a controlled substance in Schedule I or Schedule II in violation of
R.C. § 2925.04.
   (D)   Any premises or real estate that is permitted to be used in violation
of division (B) of this section constitutes a nuisance subject to abatement
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2925.13(A) - (C), (F)) (Rev. 2019)
§ 138.06 ILLEGAL CULTIVATION OF MARIHUANA.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cultivate marihuana.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any person listed in R.C. § 2925.03(B)
(1), (B)(2) or (B)(3), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, to
the extent and under the circumstances described in that division.
   (C)   Whoever commits a violation of division (A) of this section is guilty
of illegal cultivation of marihuana.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in the following divisions, illegal
cultivation of marihuana is a minor misdemeanor or, if the offense was
committed in the vicinity of a school or in the vicinity of a juvenile, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   If the amount of marihuana involved equals or exceeds 100 grams but
is less than 200 grams, illegal cultivation of marihuana is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree or, if the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school
or in the vicinity of a juvenile, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (3)   If the amount of marihuana involved equals or exceeds 200 grams,
illegal cultivation of marihuana is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   Arrest or conviction for a minor misdemeanor violation of this section
does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s criminal
record, including any inquiries contained in any application for employment,
license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s
appearance as a witness.
(R.C. § 2925.04(A), (B), (C)(5), (G)) (Rev. 2019)
Statutory reference:
Illegal manufacturing of controlled substances, felony, see R.C. § 2925.04
Sale or use of drugs not approved by Food and Drug Administration, felony, see
R.C. § 2925.09
§ 138.07 ABUSING HARMFUL INTOXICANTS.
   (A)   Except for lawful research, clinical, medical, dental, or veterinary
purposes, no person, with purpose to induce intoxication or similar
physiological effects, shall obtain, possess, or use a harmful intoxicant.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of abusing harmful
intoxicants, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a drug abuse offense, abusing harmful intoxicants is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to the September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (C)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.31) (Rev. 2020)
§ 138.08 ILLEGAL DISPENSING OF DRUG SAMPLES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly furnish a sample drug to another person.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to manufacturers,
wholesalers, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, licensed health professionals
authorized to prescribe drugs, and other persons whose conduct is in accordance
with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4725, 4729, 4730, 4731, and 4741.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal dispensing of
drug samples.
      (2)   If the drug involved in the offense is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule I or Schedule II, with the
exception of marihuana, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the offense is a dangerous drug or a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule
IV or Schedule V, or is marihuana, the penalty for the offense shall be
determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in the following division, illegal
dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
         (b)   If the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school or in
the vicinity of a juvenile, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2925.36(A) - (C)) (Rev. 2019)
Statutory reference:
Felony offenses, see R.C. § 2925.36(C)(2)
§ 138.09 FEDERAL PROSECUTION BAR TO MUNICIPAL PROSECUTION.
   No person shall be prosecuted for a violation of this chapter if the person
has been acquitted or convicted under the federal drug abuse control laws of
the same act or omission which, it is alleged, constitutes a violation of this
chapter.
(R.C. §§ 2925.50, 3719.19) (Rev. 2002)
§ 138.10 NITROUS OXIDE: IMPROPER DISPENSING OR DISTRIBUTION; POSSESSION IN A
MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   Improper dispensing or distribution.
      (1)   No person who dispenses or distributes nitrous oxide in cartridges
shall fail to comply with either of the following:
         (a)   The record-keeping requirements established under division (A)
(3) of this section.
         (b)   The labeling and transaction identification requirements
established under division (A)(4) of this section.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(1)(b) of this section is
guilty of improperly dispensing or distributing nitrous oxide, a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
      (3)   Beginning July 1, 2001, a person who dispenses or distributes
nitrous oxide shall record each transaction involving the dispensing or
distribution of the nitrous oxide on a separate card. The person shall require
the purchaser to sign the card and provide a complete residence address. The
person dispensing or distributing the nitrous oxide shall sign and date the
card. The person shall retain the card recording a transaction for one year
from the date of the transaction. The person shall maintain the cards at the
person’s business address and make them available during normal business hours
for inspection and copying by officers or employees of the State Board of
Pharmacy or of other law enforcement agencies that are authorized to
investigate violations of this code, R.C. Chapters 2925, 3719, or 4729, or
federal drug abuse control laws. The cards used to record each transaction
shall inform the purchaser of the following:
         (a)   That nitrous oxide cartridges are to be used only for purposes
of preparing food;
         (b)   That inhalation of nitrous oxide can have dangerous health
effects; and
         (c)   That it is a violation of state law to distribute or dispense
cartridges of nitrous oxide to any person under age 21, punishable as a felony
of the fifth degree.
      (4)   (a)   Each cartridge of nitrous oxide dispensed or distributed in
this municipality shall bear the following printed warning: “Nitrous oxide
cartridges are to be used only for purposes of preparing food. Nitrous oxide
cartridges may not be sold to persons under age 21. Do not inhale contents.
Misuse can be dangerous to your health.”
         (b)   Each time a person dispenses or distributes one or more
cartridges of nitrous oxide, the person shall mark the packaging containing the
cartridges with a label or other device that identifies the person who
dispensed or distributed the nitrous oxide and the person’s business address.
(R.C. § 2925.32(B)(4), (D)(2), (F), (G)) (Rev. 2001)
   (B)   Possession in a motor vehicle.
      (1)   As used in this section, MOTOR VEHICLE, STREET and HIGHWAY have the
same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      (2)   Unless authorized by this code or by state law, no person shall
possess an open cartridge of nitrous oxide in either of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   While operating or being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on
a street, highway, or other public or private property open to the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking.
         (b)   While being in or on a stationary motor vehicle on a street,
highway, or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular traffic or parking.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of possessing nitrous
oxide in a motor vehicle, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (4)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for
possessing nitrous oxide in a motor vehicle, the court may suspend for not more
than five years the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit.
(R.C. § 2925.33) (Rev. 2017)
Statutory reference:
Trafficking in harmful intoxicants, see R.C. § 2925.32
§ 138.11 LABORATORY REPORT REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of this chapter or
R.C. Chapters 2925 or 3719, a laboratory report from the Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation or a laboratory operated by another law
enforcement agency, or a laboratory established by or under the authority of an
institution of higher education that has its main campus in this state and that
is accredited by the Association of American Universities or the North Central
Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools, primarily for the purpose of
providing scientific service to law enforcement agencies, and signed by the
person performing the analysis, stating that the substance that is the basis of
the alleged offense has been weighed and analyzed and stating the findings as
to the content, weight, and identity of the substance and that it contains any
amount of a controlled substance and the number and description of unit
dosages, is prima facie evidence of the content, identity, and weight or the
existence and number of unit dosages of the substance. In any criminal
prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 2925.041 or a violation of this chapter,
R.C. Chapter 2925 or R.C. Chapter 3719 that is based on the possession of
chemicals sufficient to produce a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance
included in Schedule I, II, III, IV, or V, a laboratory report from the Bureau
or from any laboratory that is operated or established as described in this
division that is signed by the person performing the analysis, stating that the
substances that are the basis of the alleged offense have been weighed and
analyzed and stating the findings as to the content, weight, and identity of
each of the substances, is prima facie evidence of the content, identity, and
weight of the substances.
      (2)   Attached to that report shall be a copy of a notarized statement by
the signer of the report giving the name of the signer and stating that the
signer is an employee of the laboratory issuing the report and that performing
the analysis is a part of the signer’s regular duties, and giving an outline of
the signer’s education, training, and experience for performing an analysis of
materials included under this section. The signer shall attest that
scientifically accepted tests were performed with due caution, and that the
evidence was handled in accordance with established and accepted procedures
while in the custody of the laboratory.
   (B)   The prosecuting attorney shall serve a copy of the report on the
attorney of record for the accused, or on the accused if the accused has no
attorney, prior to any proceeding in which the report is to be used against the
accused other than at a preliminary hearing or grand jury proceeding where the
report may be used without having been previously served upon the accused.
   (C)   The report shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents,
identity, and weight or the existence and number of unit dosages of the
substance if the accused or the accused’s attorney demands the testimony of the
person signing the report, by serving the demand upon the prosecuting attorney,
within seven days from the accused or the accused’s attorney’s receipt of the
report. The time may be extended by a trial judge in the interests of justice.
   (D)   Any report issued for use under this section shall contain notice of
the right of the accused to demand, and the manner in which the accused shall
demand, the testimony of the person signing the report.
   (E)   Any person who is accused of a violation of this chapter or R.C.
Chapters 2925 or 3719 is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have a portion of the substance that is, or of each of the
substances that are, the basis of the alleged violation preserved for the
benefit of independent analysis performed by a laboratory analyst employed by
the accused person, or, if the accused is indigent, by a qualified laboratory
analyst appointed by the court. Such portion shall be a representative sample
of the entire substance that is, or of each of the substances that are, the
basis of the alleged violation and shall be of sufficient size, in the opinion
of the court, to permit the accused’s analyst to make a thorough scientific
analysis concerning the identity of the substance or substances. The
prosecuting attorney shall provide the accused’s analyst with the sample
portion at least 14 days prior to trial, unless the trial is to be held in a
court not of record or unless the accused person is charged with a minor
misdemeanor, in which case the prosecuting attorney shall provide the accused’s
analyst with the sample portion at least three days prior to trial. If the
prosecuting attorney determines that such a sample portion cannot be preserved
and given to the accused’s analyst, the prosecuting attorney shall so inform
the accused person, or the accused’s attorney. In such a circumstance, the
accused person is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have the accused’s privately employed or court appointed analyst
present at an analysis of the substance that is, or the substances that are,
the basis of the alleged violation, and, upon further written request, to
receive copies of all recorded scientific data that result from the analysis
and that can be used by an analyst in arriving at conclusions, findings, or
opinions concerning the identity of the substance or substances subject to the
analysis.
   (F)   In addition to the rights provided under division (E) of this section,
any person who is accused of a violation of this chapter or R.C. Chapters 2925
or 3719 that involves a bulk amount of a controlled substance, or any multiple
thereof, or who is accused of a violation of R.C. § 2925.11 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, other than a minor misdemeanor violation, that
involves marihuana, is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have a laboratory analyst of the accused’s choice, or, if the
accused is indigent, a qualified laboratory analyst appointed by the court,
present at a measurement or weighing of the substance that is the basis of the
alleged violation. Also, the accused person is entitled, upon further written
request, to receive copies of all recorded scientific data that result from the
measurement or weighing and that can be used by an analyst in arriving at
conclusions, findings, or opinions concerning the weight, volume, or number of
unit doses of the substance subject to the measurement or weighing.
(R.C. § 2925.51) (Rev. 2002)
   (G)   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required under
R.C. §§ 2929.18 and 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required
under any provision of law, the court imposing sentence upon an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a drug abuse offense may order the offender to
pay to the state, municipal, or county law enforcement agencies that handled
the investigation and prosecution all of the costs that the state, municipal
corporation, or county reasonably incurred in having tests performed under this
section or R.C. § 2925.51 or in any other manner on any substance that was the
basis of, or involved in, the offense to determine whether the substance
contained any amount of a controlled substance if the results of the tests
indicate that the substance tested contained any controlled substance. No court
shall order an offender under this section to pay the costs of tests performed
on a substance if the results of the tests do not indicate that the substance
tested contained any controlled substance. The court shall hold a hearing to
determine the amount of costs to be imposed under this section. The court may
hold the hearing as part of the sentencing hearing for the offender.
(R.C. § 2925.511) (Rev. 2007)
§ 138.12 COUNTERFEIT CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly possess any counterfeit controlled
substance.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be guilty of
possession of counterfeit controlled substances, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2925.37(A), (G)) (Rev. 2019)
Statutory reference:
Trafficking and other felony counterfeit controlled substance offenses, see
R.C. § 2925.37(H) - (M)
§ 138.13 USE, POSSESSION, OR SALE OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   As used in this section, DRUG PARAPHERNALIA means any equipment,
product, or material of any kind that is used by the offender, intended by the
offender for use, or designed for use, in propagating, cultivating, growing,
harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing,
preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing,
concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the
human body, a controlled substance in violation of this chapter. The term
includes but is not limited to any of the following equipment, products, or
materials that are used by the offender, intended by the offender for use, or
designed by the offender for use, in any of the following manners:
      (1)   A kit for propagating, cultivating, growing, or harvesting any
species of a plant that is a controlled substance or from which a controlled
substance can be derived.
      (2)   A kit for manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
processing, or preparing a controlled substance.
      (3)   Any object, instrument, or device for manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing, or preparing methamphetamine.
      (4)   An isomerization device for increasing the potency of any species
of a plant that is a controlled substance.
      (5)   Testing equipment for identifying, or analyzing the strength,
effectiveness, or purity of, a controlled substance.
      (6)   A scale or balance for weighing or measuring a controlled
substance.
      (7)   A diluent or adulterant, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose, or lactose, for cutting a controlled substance.
      (8)   A separation gin or sifter for removing twigs and seeds from, or
otherwise cleaning or refining, marihuana.
      (9)   A blender, bowl, container, spoon, or mixing device for compounding
a controlled substance.
      (10)   A capsule, balloon, envelope, or container for packaging small
quantities of a controlled substance.
      (11)   A container or device for storing or concealing a controlled
substance.
      (12)   A hypodermic syringe, needle, or instrument for parenterally
injecting a controlled substance into the human body.
      (13)   An object, instrument, or device for ingesting, inhaling, or
otherwise introducing into the human body, marihuana, cocaine, hashish, or
hashish oil, such as a metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or
ceramic pipe, with or without a screen, permanent screen, hashish head, or
punctured metal bowl; water pipe; carburetion tube or device; smoking or
carburetion mask; roach clip or similar object used to hold burning material,
such as a marihuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be
held in the hand; miniature cocaine spoon, or cocaine vial; chamber pipe;
carburetor pipe; electric pipe; air driver pipe; chillum; bong; or ice pipe or
chiller.
   (B)   In determining if any equipment, product, or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, the following:
      (1)   Any statement by the owner or by anyone in control of the
equipment, product, or material, concerning its use.
      (2)   The proximity in time or space of the equipment, product, or
material, or of the act relating to the equipment, product, or material, to a
violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2925.
      (3)   The proximity of the equipment, product, or material to any
controlled substance.
      (4)   The existence of any residue of a controlled substance on the
equipment, product, or material.
      (5)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of the owner, or of
anyone in control, of the equipment, product, or material, to deliver it to any
person whom he or she knows intends to use the equipment, product, or material
to facilitate a violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter
2925. A finding that the owner or anyone in control of the equipment, product,
or material is not guilty of a violation of any other provision of this chapter
or R.C. Chapter 2925 does not prevent a finding that the equipment, product, or
material was intended or designed by the offender for use as drug
paraphernalia.
      (6)   Any oral or written instruction provided with the equipment,
product, or material concerning its use.
      (7)   Any descriptive material accompanying the equipment, product, or
material and explaining or depicting its use.
      (8)   National or local advertising concerning the use of the equipment,
product, or material.
      (9)   The manner and circumstances in which the equipment, product, or
material is displayed for sale.
      (10)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of the sales of the
equipment, product, or material to the total sales of the business enterprise.
      (11)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses of the equipment,
product, or material in the community.
      (12)   Expert testimony concerning the use of the equipment, product, or
material.
   (C)   (1)   Subject to division (D)(2) of this section, no person shall
knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use, drug paraphernalia.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly sell, or possess or manufacture with
purpose to sell, drug paraphernalia, if he or she knows or reasonably should
know that the equipment, product, or material will be used as drug
paraphernalia.
      (3)   No person shall place an advertisement in any newspaper, magazine,
handbill, or other publication that is published and printed and circulates
primarily within this state, if he or she knows that the purpose of the
advertisement is to promote the illegal sale in this municipality or in this
state of the equipment, product, or material that the offender intended or
designed for use as drug paraphernalia.
   (D)   (1)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, licensed health
professionals authorized to prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies,
and other persons whose conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715,
4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, and 4741. This section shall not be construed to
prohibit the possession or use of a hypodermic as authorized by R.C. §
3719.172.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a person’s use,
or possession with purpose to use, any drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a
product, or material of any kind that is used by the person, intended by the
person for use, or designed for use in storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the human body
marihuana.
   (E)   Notwithstanding R.C. Chapter 2981, any drug paraphernalia that was
used, possessed, sold, or manufactured in violation of this section shall be
seized, after a conviction for that violation, shall be forfeited, and upon
forfeiture shall be disposed of pursuant to R.C. § 2981.12(B).
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (C)(1) of this section is guilty of
illegal use or possession of drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (F)(3) of this section, whoever
violates division (C)(2) of this section is guilty of dealing in drug
paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C)(2) of this section by selling drug
paraphernalia to a juvenile is guilty of selling drug paraphernalia to
juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (C)(3) of this section is guilty of
illegal advertising of drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (G)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.14) (Rev. 2020)
   (H)   Illegal use or possession of marihuana drug paraphernalia.
      (1)   As used in this division (H), DRUG PARAPHERNALIA has the same
meaning as in division (A) of this section.
      (2)   In determining if any equipment, product, or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, all factors identified in division (B) of this
section.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use, any
drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a product, or material of any kind that
is used by the person, intended by the person for use, or designed for use in
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing into the human body marihuana.
      (4)   This division (H) does not apply to any person identified in
division (D)(1) of this section, and it shall not be construed to prohibit the
possession or use of a hypodermic as authorized by R.C. § 3719.172.
      (5)   Division (E) of this section applies with respect to any drug
paraphernalia that was used or possessed in violation of this section.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (H)(3) of this section is guilty of
illegal use or possession of marihuana drug paraphernalia, a minor misdemeanor.
      (7)   (a)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender
for a violation division (H) of this section, the court may suspend for not
more than five years the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit. However, if the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a
violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance
or the law of another state or the United States arising out of the same set of
circumstances as the violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the
offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction
imposed for a violation of division (H) of this section, the court immediately
shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
         (b)   1.   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under division (H)
of this section prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the
sentencing court requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an
offender who pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another
state or the United States that arose out of the same set of circumstances as
the violation for which the offender’s license or permit was suspended under
division (H) of this section shall not file such a motion.
            2.   Upon the filing of a motion under division (H)(7)(b) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.141) (Rev. 2020)
§ 138.14 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE OR PRESCRIPTION LABELS.
   (A)   Whenever a manufacturer sells a controlled substance, and whenever a
wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility sells a controlled substance in
a package the wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility has prepared, the
manufacturer or the wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility, as the
case may be, shall securely affix to each package in which the controlled
substance is contained a label showing in legible English the name and address
of the vendor and the quantity, kind, and form of controlled substance
contained therein. No person, except a pharmacist for the purpose of dispensing
a controlled substance upon a prescription shall alter, deface, or remove any
label so affixed. As used in this division, “repackager” and “outsourcing
facility” have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   (B)   No person shall alter, deface or remove any label affixed pursuant to
R.C. § 3719.08 as long as any of the original contents remain.
(R.C. § 3719.08(A), (E)) (Rev. 2018)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this
section, or R.C. § 3719.07 or 3719.08, or a drug abuse offense, a violation of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the
violation involves the sale, offer to sell, or possession of a Schedule I or II
controlled substance, with the exception of marihuana, and if the offender, as
a result of the violation, is a major drug offender, then R.C. § 3719.99(D)
applies.
(R.C. § 3719.99(C)) (Rev. 1999)
§ 138.15 POSSESSION, SALE AND DISPOSAL OF HYPODERMICS.
   (A)   Possession of a hypodermic is authorized for the following:
      (1)   A manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in hypodermics, or
medication packaged in hypodermics, and any authorized agent of employee of
that manufacturer, distributor or dealer, in the regular course of business;
      (2)   A terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, in the regular course of
business;
      (3)   A person authorized to administer injections, in the regular course
of the person’s profession or employment;
      (4)   A person, when the hypodermic in his possession was lawfully
obtained and is kept and used for the purpose of self-administration of insulin
or other drug prescribed for the treatment of disease by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs;
      (5)   A person whose use of a hypodermic is for legal research, clinical,
educational or medicinal purposes;
      (6)   A farmer, for the lawful administration of a drug to an animal;
      (7)   A person whose use of a hypodermic is for lawful professional,
mechanical, trade or craft purposes.
   (B)   No manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in, hypodermics or
medication packaged in hypodermics, or their authorized agents or employees,
and no terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, shall display any hypodermic
for sale. No person authorized to possess a hypodermic pursuant to division (A)
of this section shall negligently fail to take reasonable precautions to
prevent any hypodermic in the person’s possession from theft or acquisition by
any unauthorized person.
(R.C. § 3719.172(A), (B))
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (B) of this section, R.C. § 3719.05, 3719.06,
3719.13, 3719.172(B), or 3719.31, or a drug abuse offense, a violation of
division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 3719.99(E)) (Rev. 1999)
Statutory reference:
Felony offenses, see R.C. § 3719.172(C) and (D)
§ 138.16 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE SCHEDULES.
   Controlled Substance Schedules I, II, III, IV, and V, as established in R.C.
§ 3719.41 and amended by R.C. §§ 3719.43 and 3719.44, are hereby adopted by
reference, and shall be treated as if set forth in full herein.
(Rev. 2020)
§ 138.17 UNLAWFUL FURNISHING OF PRESCRIPTION TO ENABLE PERSONS TO BE ISSUED
HANDICAPPED PARKING PLACARDS OR LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)   No physician or chiropractor shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Furnish a person with a prescription in order to enable the person
to be issued a removable windshield placard, temporary removable windshield
placard, or license plates under R.C. § 4503.44, knowing that the person does
not meet any of the criteria contained in R.C. § 4503.44(A)(1).
      (2)   Furnish a person with a prescription described in division (A)(1)
of this section and knowingly misstate on the prescription the length of time
the physician or chiropractor expects the person to have the disability that
limits or impairs the person’s ability to walk in order to enable the person to
retain a placard issued under R.C. § 4503.44 for a period of time longer than
that which would be estimated by a similar practitioner under the same or
similar circumstances.
(R.C. §§ 4731.481, 4734.161) (Rev. 2001)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. §§ 4731.99(F), 4734.99(B))
Cross-reference:
Parking privileges for persons with disabilities, see §
76.05
§ 138.18 PSEUDOEPHEDRINE SALES.
   (A)   Unlawful purchases.
      (1)   As used in divisions (A), (B), (C) and (D) of this section:
         CONSUMER PRODUCT. Any food or drink that is consumed or used by humans
and any drug, including a drug that may be provided legally only pursuant to a
prescription, that is intended to be consumed or used by humans.
         EPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of ephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or salts
of optical isomers.
         EPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains ephedrine.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of pseudoephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or
salts of optical isomers.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains
pseudoephedrine.
         RETAILER. A place of business that offers consumer products for sale
to the general public.
         SINGLE-INGREDIENT PREPARATION. A compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that contains a single active ingredient.
         TERMINAL DISTRIBUTOR OF DANGEROUS DRUGS. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 4729.01.
      (2)   (a)   1.   No individual shall knowingly purchase, receive, or
otherwise acquire an amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
that is greater than either of the following unless the pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product is dispensed by a pharmacist pursuant to a valid
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs and the conduct of the pharmacist and the licensed health professional
authorized to prescribe drugs is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715,
4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741:
               a.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single day;
               b.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
            2.   The limits specified in divisions (A)(2)(a)1.a. and (A)(2)
(a)1.b. of this section apply to the total amount of base pseudoephedrine or
base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product,
respectively. The limits do not apply to the product’s overall weight.
         (b)   It is not a violation of division (B)(1) of this section for an
individual to receive or accept more than an amount of pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product specified in division (A)(2)(a)1.a. or (A)(2)(a)1.b. of
this section if the individual is an employee of a retailer or terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs, and the employee receives or accepts from the
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs the pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product in a sealed container in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (3)   (a)   No individual under 18 years of age shall knowingly purchase,
receive, or otherwise acquire a pseudoephedrine product, or ephedrine product
unless the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product is dispensed by a
pharmacist pursuant to a valid prescription issued by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs and the conduct of the pharmacist
and the licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs is in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741.
         (b)   Division (A)(3)(a) of this section does not apply to an
individual under 18 years of age who purchases, receives, or otherwise acquires
a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product from any of the following:
            1.   A licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs
or pharmacist who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides the pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to that individual and whose conduct is in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741;
            2.   A parent or guardian of that individual who provides the
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            3.   A person, as authorized by that individual’s parent or
guardian, who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides the pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            4.   A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs who
provides the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to that individual if
the individual is an employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of
dangerous drugs and the individual receives or accepts from the retailer or
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs the pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product in a sealed container in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (4)   No individual under 18 years of age shall knowingly show or give
false information concerning the individual’s name, age, or other
identification for the purpose of purchasing, receiving, or otherwise acquiring
a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product.
      (5)   No individual shall knowingly fail to comply with the requirements
of R.C. § 3715.051(B).
      (6)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawful purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (A)(3)(a) of this section is guilty of
underage purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if it could be
committed by an adult.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of using
false information to purchase a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the first degree if it could be
committed by an adult.
      (9)   Whoever violates division (A)(5) of this section is guilty of
improper purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2925.55) (Rev. 2014)
   (B)   Unlawful retail sales.
      (1)   (a)   1.   Except as provided in division (B)(1)(b) of this
section, no retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs or an employee
of a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall knowingly sell,
offer to sell, hold for sale, deliver, or otherwise provide to any individual
an amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product that is greater than
either of the following:
               a.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single day;
               b.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
            2.   The maximum amounts specified in divisions (B)(1)(a)1.a. and
(B)(1)(a)1.b. of this section apply to the total amount of base pseudoephedrine
or base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product,
respectively. The maximum amounts do not apply to the product’s overall weight.
         (b)   1.   Division (B)(1)(a) of this section does not apply to any
quantity of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product dispensed by a
pharmacist pursuant to a valid prescription issued by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs if the conduct of the pharmacist and
the licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs is in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741.
            2.   It is not a violation of division (B)(1)(a) of this section
for a retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, or employee of either
to provide to an individual more than an amount of pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product specified in division (B)(1)(a)1.a. or (B)(1)(a)1.b. of this
section under either of the following circumstances:
               a.   The individual is an employee of the retailer or terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs, and the employee receives or accepts from the
retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, or employee the
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product in a sealed container in
connection with manufacturing, warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging,
loading, or unloading of the product;
               b.   A stop-sale alert is generated after the submission of
information to the national precursor log exchange under the conditions
described in R.C. § 3715.052(A)(2).
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this section, no
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs or an employee of a
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall sell, offer to sell,
hold for sale, deliver, or otherwise provide a pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product to an individual who is under 18 years of age.
         (b)   Division (B)(2)(a) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
            1.   A licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs
or pharmacist who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides a pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to an individual under 18 years of age and whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731,
or 4741;
            2.   A parent or guardian of an individual under 18 years of age
who provides a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            3.   A person who, as authorized by the individual’s parent or
guardian, dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides a pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product to an individual under 18 years of age;
            4.   The provision by a retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs, or employee of either of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
in a sealed container to an employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of
dangerous drugs who is under 18 years of age in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (3)   No retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall fail
to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 3715.051(A) or R.C. § 3715.052(A)(2).
      (4)   No retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall fail
to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 3715.052(A)(1).
      (5)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawfully selling a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (B)(2)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawfully selling a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to a minor, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section is guilty of
improper sale of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a misdemeanor
of the second degree.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (B)(4) of this section is guilty of
failing to submit information to the national precursor log exchange, a
misdemeanor for which the offender shall be fined not more than $1,000 per
violation.
(R.C. § 2925.56) (Rev. 2014)
   (C)   Transaction scans.
      (1)   As used in this division and division (D) of this section:
         CARD HOLDER. Means any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a seller, or an agent or employee
of a seller, to purchase or receive any pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product from the seller, agent, or employee.
         IDENTIFICATION CARD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2927.021.
         SELLER. Means a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs.
         TRANSACTION SCAN. Means the process by which a seller or an agent or
employee of a seller checks by means of a transaction scan device the validity
of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card that is
presented as a condition for purchasing or receiving any pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product.
         TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2927.021.
      (2)   (a)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may perform a
transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the validity of
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a
card holder as a condition for selling, giving away, or otherwise distributing
to the card holder a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product.
         (b)   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (C)(2)(a) of this section fails to match the information printed
on the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information
so printed is false or fraudulent, neither the seller nor any agent or employee
of the seller shall sell, give away, or otherwise distribute any
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the card holder.
         (c)   Division (C)(2)(a) of this section does not preclude a seller or
an agent or employee of a seller as a condition for selling, giving away, or
otherwise distributing a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the
person presenting the document from using a transaction scan device to check
the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or an identification card if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip
that may be scanned by the device.
      (3)   Rules adopted by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. §
4301.61(C) apply to the use of transaction scan devices for purposes of this
division (C) and division (D) of this section.
      (4)   (a)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except the following:
            1.   The name, address, and date of birth of the person listed on
the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by
a card holder;
            2.   The expiration date, identification number, and issuing agency
of the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by a card holder.
         (b)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use the
information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to be
recorded and maintained under division (C)(4)(a) of this section except for
purposes of division (D) of this section, R.C. § 2925.58, or R.C. § 3715.052(A)
(1).
         (c)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use a
transaction scan device for a purpose other than the purpose specified in
division (C)(2)(a) of this section.
         (d)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall sell or
otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising, or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by division (D) of this section
or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (C) or division (D) of this section
relieves a seller or an agent or employee of a seller of any responsibility to
comply with any other applicable state or federal laws or rules governing the
sale, giving away, or other distribution of pseudoephedrine products or
ephedrine products.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (C)(2)(b) or (C)(4) of this section is
guilty of engaging in an illegal pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender a civil penalty of
up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the Court shall pay each
collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into the County
Treasury.
(R.C. § 2925.57) (Rev. 2014)
   (D)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may not be found
guilty of a charge of a violation of division (B) of this section in which the
age of the purchaser or other recipient of a pseudoephedrine product is an
element of the alleged violation if the seller, agent, or employee raises and
proves as an affirmative defense that all of the following occurred:
         (a)   A card holder attempting to purchase or receive a
pseudoephedrine product presented a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
an identification card.
         (b)   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that
the license or card was valid.
         (c)   The pseudoephedrine product was sold, given away, or otherwise
distributed to the card holder in reasonable reliance upon the identification
presented and the completed transaction scan.
      (2)   In determining whether a seller or an agent or employee of a seller
has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (D)(1) of this section,
the trier of fact in the action for the alleged violation of division (B) of
this section shall consider any written policy that the seller has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of division (B) of this
section. For purposes of division (D)(1)(c) of this section, the trier of fact
shall consider that reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan may require a seller or an agent or employee of
a seller to exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a
transaction scan device does not excuse a seller or an agent or employee of a
seller from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
         (a)   Whether a person to whom the seller or agent or employee of a
seller sells, gives away, or otherwise distributes a pseudoephedrine product is
18 years of age or older;
         (b)   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
      (3)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by
division (D)(1) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a
deputy registrar who issued an identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50
through 4507.52 shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of
that issuance in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles in the action.
(R.C. § 2925.58) (Rev. 2007)
   (E)   Retailer’s duties.
      (1)   As used in divisions (E) and (F) of this section:
         CONSUMER PRODUCT. Any food or drink that is consumed or used by humans
and any drug, including a drug that may be provided legally only pursuant to a
prescription, that is intended to be consumed or used by humans.
         DRUG. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         EPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of ephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or salts
of optical isomers.
         EPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains ephedrine.
         LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. An officer or employee of any agency or
authority of the United States, a state, a territory, a political subdivision
of a state or territory, or an Indian tribe, who is empowered by the law to
investigate or conduct an official inquiry into a potential violation of law or
prosecute or otherwise conduct a criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding
arising from an alleged violation of law.
         LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS. Has the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         NATIONAL PRECURSOR LOG EXCHANGE or EXCHANGE. The electronic system for
tracking sales of pseudoephedrine products and ephedrine products on a national
basis that is administered by the National Association of Drug Diversion
Investigators or a successor organization.
         PHARMACIST. A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 to engage in the
practice of pharmacy.
         PHARMACY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PRESCRIBER. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PRESCRIPTION. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PROOF OF AGE. A driver’s license, a commercial driver’s license, a
military identification card, a passport, or an identification card issued
under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52 that shows a person is 18 years of age or
older.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of pseudoephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or
salts of optical isomers.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains
pseudoephedrine.
         RETAILER. A place of business that offers consumer products for sale
to the general public.
         SINGLE-INGREDIENT PREPARATION. A compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that contains a single active ingredient.
         STOP-SALE ALERT. A notification sent from the national precursor log
exchange to a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs indicating
that the completion of a sale of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
would result in a violation of R.C. § 2925.56(A)(1) or federal law.
         TERMINAL DISTRIBUTOR OF DANGEROUS DRUGS. Has the same meanings as in
R.C. § 4729.01.
         WHOLESALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
      (2)   A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs that sells,
offers to sell, holds for sale, delivers, or otherwise provides a
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the public shall do all of the
following:
         (a)   Segregate pseudoephedrine products or ephedrine products from
other merchandise so that no member of the public may procure or purchase such
products without the direct assistance of a pharmacist or other authorized
employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs;
         (b)   With regard to each time a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product is sold or otherwise provided without a valid prescription:
            1.   Determine, by examination of a valid proof of age, that the
purchaser or recipient is at least 18 years of age;
            2.   a.   Using any information available, including information
from the national precursor log exchange if the information is accessible, make
a reasonable attempt to ensure that no individual purchases or receives an
amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product that is greater than
either of the following:
                  i.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single
day;
                  ii.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
               b.   The maximum amounts specified in divisions (E)(2)(b)2.a.i.
and (E)(2)(b)2.a.ii. of this section apply to the total amount of base
pseudoephedrine or base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product, respectively. The maximum amounts do not apply to the product’s
overall weight.
         (c)   Maintain a log book of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product purchases, in accordance with R.C. § 3715.051;
         (d)   If required to comply with section R.C. § 3715.052, submit the
information specified in divisions (A)(1)(a) to (A)(1)(d) of that section to
the national precursor log exchange.
      (3)   Prescriptions, orders, and records maintained pursuant to this
section and stocks of pseudoephedrine products and ephedrine products shall be
open for inspection to federal, state, county, and municipal officers, and
employees of the State Board of Pharmacy whose duty it is to enforce the laws
of this state or of the United States relating to controlled substances. Such
prescriptions, orders, records, and stocks shall be open for inspection by the
State Medical Board and its employees for purposes of enforcing R.C. Chapter
4731.
(R.C. § 3715.05) (Rev. 2014)
   (F)   Theft or loss; reporting requirements.
      (1)   Each retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, pharmacy,
prescriber, or wholesaler that sells, offers to sell, holds for sale, delivers,
or otherwise provides any pseudoephedrine product and that discovers the theft
or loss of any pseudoephedrine product in an amount of more than nine grams per
incident of theft or loss shall notify all of the following upon discovery of
the theft or loss:
         (a)   The State Board of Pharmacy, by telephone immediately upon
discovery of the theft or loss;
         (b)   Law enforcement authorities. If the incident is a theft and the
theft constitutes a felony, the retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs, pharmacy, prescriber, or wholesaler shall report the theft to the law
enforcement authorities in accordance with R.C. § 2921.22.
      (2)   Within 30 days after making a report by telephone to the State
Board of Pharmacy pursuant to division (F)(1)(a) of this section, a retailer,
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, pharmacy, prescriber, or wholesaler
shall send a written report to the State Board of Pharmacy.
      (3)   The reports required under this section shall identify the product
that was stolen or lost, the amount of the product stolen or lost, and the date
and time of discovery of the theft or loss.
(R.C. § 3715.06) (Rev. 2007)
§ 138.19 SALE OF PURE CAFFEINE PRODUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section, PURE CAFFEINE PRODUCT means:
      (1)   Subject to division (A)(2) of this section, a product that consists
solely or primarily of caffeine and is manufactured into a crystalline, liquid,
or powdered form.
      (2)   The phrase does not include any of the following that contains
caffeine and is formulated, manufactured, and labeled in accordance with the
laws and regulations enforced by the United States Food and Drug
Administration:
         (a)   Coffee, tea, any soft drink, any energy drink, or any other
caffeine-containing beverage;
         (b)   Any energy product.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, no person shall
knowingly sell or offer for sale a pure caffeine product.
   (C)   Division (B) of this section does not prohibit a person from selling
or offering for sale any product manufactured in a unit-dose form such as a
pill, tablet, or caplet, but only if each unit dose of the product contains not
more than 250 milligrams of caffeine.
   (D)   Nothing in this section prohibits either of the following:
      (1)   Possession of a product described in division (C) of this section;
      (2)   Possession of a pure caffeine product by any of the following:
         (a)   A food processing establishment, as defined in R.C. § 3715.021;
         (b)   A manufacturer of a drug that is available without a
prescription;
         (c)   A laboratory that holds a current, valid category III terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs license issued by the state board of pharmacy
under R.C. § 4729.54;
         (d)   A laboratory of any agency or department of this state that
performs testing, analysis, and other laboratory services on behalf of the
state;
         (e)   A postal or delivery service that transports or delivers a pure
caffeine product to an entity specified in divisions (D)(2)(a) to (D)(2)(d) of
this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegal
sale of pure caffeine, a minor misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor
of the third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 2925.34) (Rev. 2020)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING CODES
      
151.   UNSAFE BUILDINGS
      
152.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS
      
153.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
      
154.   SUBDIVISIONS AND IMPROVEMENTS
      
155.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODES
Section
Codes Adopted
   
150.01   Ohio Basic Building Code
   
150.02   BOCA Basic/National Fire Prevention Code, 1984 edition
Enforcement
   
150.15   Enforcement of Ohio Basic Building Code
CODES ADOPTED
§ 150.01 OHIO BASIC BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   The Ohio Basic Building Code, as the same may be altered from time to
time, is hereby adopted, and the provisions thereof shall apply and be in full
force and effect within the village.
   (B)   The purpose of the Ohio Basic Building Code is to regulate
construction, alterations, and maintenance of buildings of every nature and
kind, other than residential buildings with three or less units, to provide
minimum standards for the same, and to ensure the health and safety of the
citizens through adequate and proper controls. A complete copy of the Code is
on file with the Fiscal Officer of the Council for inspection by the public and
is available for distribution to the public at cost. Also, copies of the Code
are on file in the County Law Library.
(Ord. 34-79, passed 8-1-1979)
§ 150.02 BOCA BASIC/NATIONAL FIRE PREVENTION CODE, 1984 EDITION.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted The BOCA Basic/National Fire Prevention Code,
6th Edition, 1984 as published by the Building Officials and Code
Administrators International, Inc. for the purpose of prescribing regulations
to safeguard life and property from the hazards of fire and explosion and the
Code shall be known as the “Fire Prevention Code of the Village of Bellville,
Ohio,” and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions,
and terms of The BOCA Basic/National Fire Prevention Code, 6th Edition, 1984,
are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in
this section.
   (B)   The Chief of the Jefferson Township Fire Department shall be and is
designated the enforcement authority of the Fire Prevention Code of the
village.
   (C)   A complete copy of The BOCA Basic/National Fire Prevention Code, Sixth
Edition, 1984 shall be kept on file with the Fiscal Officer at the village
office for public inspection, and a complete copy of the Code shall be filed at
the County Law Library and the Fiscal Officer shall have copies available for
public distribution at cost.
   (D)   The fee for issuing permits pursuant to § F-103.2 of the Fire
Prevention Code of the village shall be and is $10.
   (E)   The penalty for a violation of the Fire Prevention Code of the village
as provided by § F-105.5.1 shall be a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(Ord. 5-85, passed 5-7-1985) Penalty, see §
10.99
ENFORCEMENT
§ 150.15 ENFORCEMENT OF OHIO BASIC BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to enter into a written
agreement with the Board of County Commissioners authorizing the County
Division of Building Regulations to administer, inspect, and enforce the
provisions of the Ohio Basic Building Code within the village.
   (B)   The agreement shall be for one year, and shall thereafter continue in
effect until 90-days’ written notice to terminate is given by either party.
(Ord. 35-79, passed 8-1-1979)
CHAPTER 151: UNSAFE BUILDINGS
Section
   
151.01   Purpose and authority
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Administration and enforcement
   
151.04   Inspection authority
   
151.05   Notice and order; contents
   
151.06   Service of notice and order
   
151.07   Appeals
   
151.08   Proceedings and authority of Council
   
151.09   Execution of order
   
151.10   Photographs
   
151.11   Suspension of order
   
151.12   Expenses of notice
§ 151.01 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to authority granted by Section 3, Article
XVIII of the Ohio Constitution, and R.C. §§ 715.26, 715.261, 715.29, and 715.44
for the purpose of safeguarding life, property and health and for the promotion
of the peace, health, safety, and welfare of this municipality and its
inhabitants.
(Ord. 61-04, passed 12-6-2004)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Village Administrator or Mayor of the Municipality.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING. Any building, wall, shed, fence, or other human-made
structure which is, in whole or part:
      (1)   Insecure, unsafe, structurally defective, and unsafe to health,
life, and other property from any cause;
      (2)   Unsafe to the public health because of any condition which may
cause or aid in the inception or spread of disease, or injury to the health of
the occupants thereof or its neighboring structures; or
      (3)   Especially liable to fire, or maintains or creates a fire hazard to
the premises or to adjoining property for any cause.
   DEMOLISH or DEMOLITION. The tearing down and removal, so as to require
reassembly as new construction if rebuilt, of any dangerous building, shed,
fence, or other human-made structure permanently affixed to the soil, whose
original construction cost was $500 or more.
   ORDER. Any lawful order issued by the Administrative Administrator.
   ORIGINAL CONSTRUCTION COST.  The fair market value of the building or
structure at the time of its original construction.
   PARTY WALL. A wall, part of a building, or fence constructed upon and
straddling the common lot line between two adjoining properties under different
ownership and serving both of the adjoining properties.
   PERMANENTLY AFFIXED TO THE SOIL. Construction or erection designed so as to
not anticipate removal from the original site during the reasonable life of the
building or structure.
   PERSON. Includes individual, partnership, firm, association, corporation, or
other legal entity.
(Ord. 61-04, passed 12-6-2004)
§ 151.03 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   Administration and enforcement of this chapter shall be the duty and
responsibility of the Administrative Administrator.
(Ord. 61-04, passed 12-6-2004)
§ 151.04 INSPECTION AUTHORITY.
   The Village Administrator is hereby authorized and directed to make
inspections to determine the condition of buildings or other structures in
order that he or she may perform his or her duty of safeguarding life and
property within the municipality. For the purpose of making these inspections,
the personnel, upon showing appropriate identification, are hereby authorized
to enter, examine, and survey at any reasonable hour any building, structure,
or premises. The owner, occupant, or person in charge of the building,
structure, or premises shall give the personnel free access to the building,
structure, or premises at any reasonable hour for the purpose of the
inspection, examination, and survey; provided, the owner, occupant, or person
in charge may demand 48-hours’ written notice of the inspection. Upon refusal
of a right of entry, the Administrator is authorized to seek a search warrant
or other appropriate court order in order to obtain access to any building
within this municipality.
(Ord. 61-04, passed 12-6-2004)
§ 151.05 NOTICE AND ORDER; CONTENTS.
   When, from an inspection of a building, structure or premises, the
Administrator has determined that a building, structure, or premises is
insecure, unsafe, structurally defective, especially liable to fire, or
endangers life, health, or other buildings or property, he or she shall issue a
notice and order to the owner or the person in charge and to the occupant of
the building, structure, or premises which shall be substantially in the
following form:
   (A)   Designation of the property to whom the notice and order is directed
and the status of the party in relation to the structure, building, or
premises;
   (B)   A clear and accurate description of the building, structure, or
premises to which the notice and order is applicable, including the number and
street address of the same when so identifiable;
   (C)   A recitation that the premises, building, or structure described in
division (B) above was inspected, the date of the inspection, and the names of
the person or persons that conducted the inspection;
   (D)   A recitation that the building, structure, or premises described in
division (B) above has been determined, upon and after inspection thereof, to
be insecure, unsafe, structurally defective, or especially liable to fire, or
endangers life, health, or other buildings or property;
   (E)   A specific itemization of the defects and conditions in the building,
structure, or premises which required the determination made in division (D)
above;
   (F)   An order to the owner, person in charge, or occupant that the
building, structure, or premises described in division (B) above be vacated,
repaired, torn down, demolished, or removed, or that all dangerous conditions
be remedied as the determination made in division (D) above may require. When
the order requires repairs or the remedying of dangerous conditions, the
specific repairs and remedies shall be enumerated;
   (G)   State the date by which time the owner, occupant, or person in charge
of the building, structure, or other premises must comply with the order;
   (H)   Advise the owner, occupant, or person in charge that the order may be
appealed under the provisions of §
151.07; and
   (I)   A recitation that upon failure to comply with the order within the
time stated, or with the order as affirmed or modified upon appeal, the
Administrator will cause the order to be executed through the use of municipal
forces, materials, and equipment, or by contract for labor, materials, and
equipment, or both, all at the expense of the owner, person in charge, or
occupant, and that the costs and expenses may be certified to the County
Auditor as a lien or special charge against the real estate and collected as
are other taxes.
(Ord. 61-04, passed 12-6-2004)
§ 151.06 SERVICE OF NOTICE AND ORDER.
   The notice and order provided in §
151.05 shall be made against, and served personally or by certified mail,
return receipt requested, upon the owner, person in charge, operator, and
occupant of the building, structure, or premises to which the order relates.
When the notice and order provided in §
151.05 cannot be served personally and certified mail service is returned
because of inability to deliver, the notice required shall be published once a
week for three consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in this
municipality. A copy of the newspaper, with the publication of the notice
marked, shall be mailed to the party at his or her last known address within
the county where the premises are situated to which the order and notice
relate, and also to his or her last known address elsewhere, if known, and the
notice shall be deemed received as of the date of the last publication.
(Ord. 61-04, passed 12-6-2004)
§ 151.07 APPEALS.
   Any owner, person in charge, or occupant of a building, other structure, or
premises aggrieved by an order issued pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter may appeal the order to Council by filing a notice of appeal within ten
days of the service of the order upon him or her with the Administrator. The
Administrator shall transmit the file relating to the order to Council, which
order shall be defended by the Administrator. The Administrator shall serve
written notice, by personal service or by certified mail, upon the appellant of
the time, place, and date of the hearing upon appeal. Council shall proceed to
hear the appeal at any regular or special meeting of the Commission within 30
days after notice of appeal has been filed by the appellant, providing that
notice of the date of hearing shall be served upon the appellant not less than
five days prior to the time the hearing is commenced. Failure of the appellant
to appear at the time and place set for the hearing shall be deemed to be a
withdrawal of the appeal and Council shall affirm the order of the
Administrator.
(Ord. 61-04, passed 12-6-2004)
§ 151.08 PROCEEDINGS AND AUTHORITY OF COUNCIL.
   (A)   The proceedings of Council upon the hearing of an appeal, including
its findings and its decision and its reasons therefor, shall be summarized and
reduced to writing and entered as a matter of public record in the office of
the Administrator. A copy of the summarization shall be served upon the
appellant personally or by certified mail. The findings, decision, and reasons
of Council may incorporate by reference the notice and order of the
Administrator, and the record of Council upon the appeal and shall include a
copy of every notice and order issued in connection with the matter.
   (B)   Council, upon completion of the hearing of the appeal, may affirm,
modify, revoke, or vacate the order appealed, and unless revoked or vacated,
the appellant shall comply with the same as affirmed or modified within a time
to be set by Council.
(Ord. 61-04, passed 12-6-2004)
§ 151.09 EXECUTION OF ORDER.
   Whoever fails to comply with an order issued under the provisions of this
chapter from which no appeal has been taken, or with the order as finally
affirmed or modified upon completion of appellate proceedings, with the time
fixed in that order or order of affirmance or modification, then the
Administrator may cause the building, other structure, or premises to be
repaired, torn down, demolished, removed, or the dangerous conditions remedied
through the use of municipal employees, equipment, and material in accordance
and consonance with the order, order of affirmance or modified order, if notice
has been given as required by R.C. § 715.26; provided, that the Administrator
may execute the order under a contract for labor, materials, and equipment
awarded by him or her for that purpose, or by a combination of municipal forces
and the contract.
(Ord. 61-04, passed 12-6-2004)
§ 151.10 PHOTOGRAPHS.
   (A)   Prior to execution of an order under the provisions of §
151.09, the Administrator shall cause not less than three photographs to be
taken and processed which shall accurately identify the building, structure, or
premises to be repaired, torn down, demolished, or removed and the geographic
location of the same. The photographs shall be taken on or about the date upon
which the Administrator issued his or her notice and order under §
151.05, and shall accurately portray the defects and conditions of the
building, structure, or premises which render the same to be insecure, unsafe,
structurally defective, or especially liable to fire, or which endanger health,
life, or other buildings or property.
   (B)   The Administrator shall cause accurate records to be maintained which
will enable identification to be made of the photographs referred to in
division (A) hereof, the date and time taken, the person taking the same,
witnesses to the taking, weather conditions, and other pertinent data.
   (C)   In lieu of photographs, the Administrator is authorized to utilize
other visual means with a record thereof, which will permanently and accurately
portray the condition and defects of the building, structure, or premises.
   (D)   The photographs or other visual means referred to in this section
shall be submitted to Council prior to execution of any order to tear down,
demolish, or remove under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 61-04, passed 12-6-2004)
§ 151.11 SUSPENSION OF ORDER.
   The filing of any notice of appeal under the provisions of this chapter
shall suspend the operation of the order from which appeal is taken during the
pendency of the appeal.
(Ord. 61-04, passed 12-6-2004)
§ 151.12 EXPENSES OF NOTICE.
   (A)   When the order is executed through the use of municipal employees,
equipment, and materials, the Administrator shall keep an accurate record of
the expenses and costs of executing the order. Costs include the expense of
service of notices, publication of notices, and requests for bids, and all
other costs and expenses arising and necessary in execution of the order.
   (B)   Upon completion of the execution of the order, whether through
municipal forces, equipment, and materials, or by contract, or by both, the
Administrator shall make written demand upon the owner, person in charge, or
occupant to whom the order was directed, for payment within 30 days of the
total costs involved in executing the order. The demand shall itemize the
expenses and costs to the municipality if the order was executed through the
use of municipal employees, equipment, and materials, or shall recite the
contract price, if so executed, or both, if executed by combination, and shall
be served upon the owner, person in charge, or occupant by certified mail. If
the person to whom the demand for payment is directed fails, neglects, or
refuses to make payment within the time stated, the Administrator shall cause
the same to be certified to the County Auditor pursuant to and in accordance
with the provisions of R.C. § 715.261, for entry upon the tax duplicate
pertaining to the premises.
(Ord. 61-04, passed 12-6-2004)
CHAPTER 152: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Authorization
   
152.002   Findings of fact
   
152.003   Statement of purpose
   
152.004   Methods of reducing flood loss
   
152.005   Lands to which these regulations apply
   
152.006   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
152.007   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.008   Interpretation
   
152.009   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.010   Definitions
Administration
   
152.020   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator
   
152.021   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
152.022   Floodplain development permits
   
152.023   Application required
   
152.024   Review and approval of a floodplain development permit application
   
152.025   Inspections
   
152.026   Post-construction certifications required
   
152.027   Revoking a floodplain development permit
   
152.028   Exemption from filing a development permit
   
152.029   Map maintenance activities
   
152.030   Data use and flood map interpretation
   
152.031   Substantial damage determinations
Use and Development Standards for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.045   Generally
   
152.046   Use regulations
   
152.047   Water and wastewater systems
   
152.048   Subdivisions and large developments
   
152.049   Residential structures
   
152.050   Nonresidential structures
   
152.051   Accessory structures
   
152.052   Recreational vehicles
   
152.053   Above-ground gas or liquid storage tanks
   
152.054   Assurance of flood carrying capacity
Appeals and Variances
   
152.065   Appeals Board established
   
152.066   Powers and duties
   
152.067   Appeals
   
152.068   Variances
   
152.069   Procedure at hearings
   
152.070   Appeal to the court
Enforcement
   
152.080   Compliance required
   
152.081   Notice of violation
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 AUTHORIZATION.
   Article XVIII, § 3 of the Ohio Constitution grants municipalities the legal
authority to adopt land use and control measures for promoting the health,
safety, and general welfare of its citizens.
(Ord. 2011-114, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 152.002 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The village has special flood hazard areas that are subject to periodic
inundation which may result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base.
Additionally, structures that are inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or
otherwise protected from flood damage also contribute to the flood loss. In
order to minimize the threat of the damages and to achieve the purposes
hereinafter set forth, these regulations are adopted.
(Ord. 2011-114, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 152.003 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of these regulations to promote the public health, safety,
and general welfare, and to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the proper use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to protect property and
minimize future flood blight areas;
   (G)   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions;
   (H)   Minimize the impact of development on adjacent properties within and
near flood prone areas;
   (I)   Ensure that the flood storage and conveyance functions of the
floodplain are maintained;
   (J)   Minimize the impact of development on the natural, beneficial values
of the floodplain;
   (K)   Prevent floodplain uses that are either hazardous or environmentally
incompatible; and
   (L)   Meet community participation requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 2011-114, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 152.004 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSS.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, these regulations include methods and
provisions for:
   (A)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve those uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels,
and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel flood
waters;
   (D)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, excavating, and other
development which may increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers, which
will unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards in
other areas.
(Ord. 2011-114, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 152.005 LANDS TO WHICH THESE REGULATIONS APPLY.
   These regulations shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within
the jurisdiction of the village as identified in §
152.006, including any additional areas of special flood hazard annexed by the
village.
(Ord. 2011-114, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 152.006 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   (A)   For the purposes of these regulations, the following studies and/or
maps are adopted:
      (1)   Flood Insurance Study Richland County, Ohio and Incorporated Areas,
and Flood Insurance Rate Map Richland County, Ohio and Incorporated Areas, both
effective April 4, 2011;
      (2)   Other studies and/or maps, which may be relied upon for
establishment of the flood protection elevation, delineation of the 100-year
floodplain, floodways, or delineation of other areas of special flood hazard,
include: none; and
      (3)   Any hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analysis authored by a
registered professional engineer in this state which has been approved by the
village as required by §
152.048.
   (B)   Any revisions to the aforementioned maps and/or studies are hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of these regulations. The maps
and/or studies are on file at the Bellville Municipal Building, 44 West Main
Street, Bellville, Ohio.
(Ord. 2011-114, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 152.007 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   These regulations are not intended to repeal any existing ordinances,
including subdivision regulations, zoning, or building codes. In the event of a
conflict between these regulations and any other ordinance, the more
restrictive shall be followed. These regulations shall not impair any deed
restriction covenant or easement but the land subject to those interests shall
also be governed by the regulations.
(Ord. 2011-114, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 152.008 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of these regulations, all provisions
shall be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes. Where a provision of these regulations may be in conflict with
a state or federal law, the state or federal law shall take precedence over
these regulations.
(Ord. 2011-114, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 152.009 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by these regulations is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. These regulations do
not imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within those areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. These
regulations shall not create liability on the part of the village, any officer
or employee thereof, or the Federal Emergency Management Agency, for any flood
damage that results from reliance on these regulations or any administrative
decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 2011-114, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 152.010 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in these
regulations shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in
common usage and to give these regulations the most reasonable application.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure on the same lot with, and of a nature
customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal structure.
   APPEAL. A request for review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of these regulations or a request for a
variance.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. The BASE FLOOD may also be referred to as the 1% CHANCE ANNUAL
FLOOD or 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   BASE (100-YEAR) FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The water surface elevation of the
base flood in relation to a specified datum, usually the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum of 1929 or the North American Vertical Datum of 1988, and
usually expressed in feet mean sea level (MSL). In Zone AO areas, the BASE
FLOOD ELEVATION is the natural grade elevation plus the depth number (from one
to three feet).
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ENCLOSURE BELOW THE LOWEST FLOOR. See definition of lowest floor.
   EXECUTIVE ORDER 11988 (FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT). Issued by President Carter in
1977, this order requires that no federally assisted activities be conducted in
or have the potential to affect identified special flood hazard areas, unless
there is no practicable alternative.
   FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA). The agency with the overall
responsibility for administering the National Flood Insurance Program.
   FILL. A deposit of earth material placed by artificial means.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). Usually the initial map, produced by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, or U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development, for a community depicting approximate special flood hazard areas.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development has delineated the areas of special flood hazard.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RISK ZONES. Zone designations on FHBMs and FIRMs that
indicate the magnitude of the flood hazard in specific areas of a community.
Following are the zone definitions.
      (1)   ZONE A. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year flood;
base flood elevations are not determined.
      (2)   ZONES A1-30 AND ZONE AE. Special flood hazard areas inundated by
the 100-year flood; base flood elevations are determined.
      (3)   ZONE AO. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood; with flood depths of one to three feet (usually sheet flow on sloping
terrain); average depths are determined.
       (4)   ZONE AH. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood; flood depths of one to three feet (usually areas of ponding); base flood
elevations are determined.
      (5)   ZONE A99. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood to be protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood protection
system under construction; no base flood elevations are determined.
      (6)   ZONE B AND ZONE X (SHADED).  Areas of 500-year flood; areas subject
to the 100-year flood with average depths of less than one foot or with
contributing drainage area less than one square mile; and areas protected by
levees from the base flood.
      (7)   ZONE C AND ZONE X (UNSHADED). Areas determined to be outside the
500-year floodplain.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report in which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development has provided flood profiles, floodway boundaries (sometimes shown
on flood boundary and floodway maps), and the water surface elevations of the
base flood.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION, or FPE, is the
base flood elevation plus two feet of freeboard. In areas where no base flood
elevations exist from any authoritative source, the FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION
can be historical flood elevations, or base flood elevations determined and/or
approved by the Floodplain Administrator.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that have been reserved in order to pass the base flood discharge.
      (1)   A FLOODWAY is typically determined through a hydraulic and
hydrologic engineering analysis such that the cumulative increase in the water
surface elevation of the base flood discharge is no more than a designated
height. In no case shall the designated height be more than one foot at any
point within the community.
      (2)   The FLOODWAY is an extremely hazardous area, and is usually
characterized by any of the following: moderate to high velocity flood waters,
high potential for debris and projectile impacts, and moderate to high erosion
forces.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for the purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for
the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than
the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such
as wave action, obstructed bridge openings, debris and ice jams, and the
hydrologic effect of urbanization in a watershed.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE.  Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listings on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on the state’s inventory of historic places
maintained by the Ohio Historic Preservation Office; or
      (4)   Individually listed on the inventory of historic places maintained
by the village’s historic preservation program, which program is certified by
the Ohio Historic Preservation Office.
   HYDROLOGIC AND HYDRAULIC ENGINEERING ANALYSIS. An analysis performed by a
professional engineer, registered in this state, in accordance with standard
engineering practices as accepted by FEMA, used to determine flood elevations
and/or floodway boundaries.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official FEMA determination, by letter, to
amend or revise effective flood insurance rate maps, flood boundary and
floodway maps, and flood insurance studies. LOMCs are broken down into the
following categories:
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated special flood
hazard area. A LOMA amends the current effective flood insurance rate map and
establishes that a specific property is not located in a special flood hazard
area.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that, usually due to human-made changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations, and planimetric features. One
common type of LOMR, a LOMR-F, is a determination concerning whether a
structure or parcel has been elevated by fill above the base flood elevation
and is, therefore, excluded from the special flood hazard area.
      (3)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). A formal review and
comment by FEMA as to whether a proposed project complies with the minimum
National Flood Insurance Program floodplain management criteria. A CLOMR does
not amend or revise effective flood insurance rate maps, flood boundary and
floodway maps, or flood insurance studies.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement) of a structure. This definition excludes an enclosure below the
LOWEST FLOOR which is an unfinished or flood resistant enclosure usable solely
for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, provided that the enclosure is built in accordance with the
applicable design requirements specified in these regulations for enclosures
below the LOWEST FLOOR.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle. For the purposes of
these regulations, a MANUFACTURED HOME includes manufactured homes and mobile
homes as defined in R.C. Chapter 3733.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. As specified in the Ohio Administrative Code
(O.A.C.) 3701-27-01, any tract of land upon which three or more manufactured
homes used for habitation are parked, either free of charge or for revenue
purposes, and includes any roadway, building, structure, vehicle, or enclosure
used or intended for use as part of the facilities of the park. A tract of land
that is subdivided and the individual lots are not for rent or rented, but are
for sale or sold for the purpose of installation of manufactured homes on the
lots, is not a MANUFACTURED HOME PARK, even though three or more manufactured
homes are parked thereon, if the roadways are dedicated to the local government
authority.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The NFIP is a federal program
enabling property owners in participating communities to purchase insurance
protection against losses from flooding. This insurance is designed to provide
an insurance alternative to disaster assistance to meet the escalating costs of
repairing damage to buildings and their contents caused by floods.
Participation in the NFIP is based on an agreement between local communities
and the federal government that states if a community will adopt and enforce
floodplain management regulations to reduce future flood risks to all
development in special flood hazard areas, the federal government will make
flood insurance available within the community as a financial protection
against flood loss.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the initial effective date of the village’s flood insurance rate
map, March 16, 1989, and includes any subsequent improvements to the
structures.
   PERSON. Includes any individual or group of individuals, corporation,
partnership, association, or any other entity, including state and local
governments and agencies. An “agency” is further defined in R.C. § 111.15 as
any governmental entity of the state and includes but is not limited to any
board, department, division, commission, bureau, society, council, institution,
state college or university, community college district, technical college
district, or state community college. Agency does not include the general
assembly, the controlling board, the adjutant general’s department, or any
court.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four-hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ARCHITECT. A person registered to engage in the
practice of architecture under the provisions of R.C. §§ 4703.01 to 4703.19.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. A person registered as a professional
engineer under R.C. Chapter 4733.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL SURVEYOR. A person registered as a professional
surveyor under R.C. Chapter 4733.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Also known as AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD, it
is the land in the floodplain subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in
any given year.
      (1)   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS are designated by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency on flood insurance rate maps, flood insurance studies, flood
boundary and floodway maps and flood hazard boundary maps as Zones A, AE, AH,
AO, A1-30, and A99.
      (2)   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS may also refer to areas that are flood
prone and designated from other federal state or local sources of data,
including but not limited to historical flood information reflecting high water
marks, previous flood inundation areas, and flood prone soils associated with a
watercourse.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual START OF CONSTRUCTION, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation
of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of
excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent
construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and
filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor
does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or
the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of a building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, manufactured home, or gas or liquid
storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include:
      (1)   Any improvement to a structure that is considered new construction;
      (2)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified prior to the application for a development permit by
the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (3)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration would not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the standards of these regulations
consistent with the variance conditions herein.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with these regulations.
(Ord. 2011-114, passed 2-15-2011)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.020 DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Administrator is hereby appointed to administer and implement these
regulations and is referred to herein as the Village Administrator.
(Ord. 2011-114, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 152.021 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include but are not limited to:
   (A)   Evaluate applications for permits to develop in special flood hazard
areas;
   (B)   Interpret floodplain boundaries and provide flood hazard and flood
protection elevation information;
   (C)   Issue permits to develop in special flood hazard areas when the
provisions of these regulations have been met, or refuse to issue the same in
the event of noncompliance;
   (D)   Inspect buildings and lands to determine whether any violations of
these regulations have been committed;
   (E)   Make and permanently keep all records for public inspection necessary
for the administration of these regulations, including flood insurance rate
maps, letters of map amendment and revision, records of issuance and denial of
permits to develop in special flood hazard areas, determinations of whether
development is in or out of special flood hazard areas for the purpose of
issuing floodplain development permits, elevation certificates, variances, and
records of enforcement actions taken for violations of these regulations;
   (F)   Enforce the provisions of these regulations;
   (G)   Provide information, testimony, or other evidence as needed during
variance hearings;
   (H)   Coordinate map maintenance activities and FEMA follow-up; and
   (I)   Conduct substantial damage determinations to determine whether
existing structures, damaged from any source and in special flood hazard areas
identified by FEMA, must meet the development standards of these regulations.
(Ord. 2011-114, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 152.022 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to begin construction or other
development activity, including but not limited to filling; grading;
construction; alteration, remodeling, or expanding any structure; or alteration
of any watercourse wholly within, partially within or in contact with any
identified special flood hazard area, as established in §
152.006, until a floodplain development permit is obtained from the Floodplain
Administrator. The floodplain development permit shall show that the proposed
development activity is in conformity with the provisions of these regulations.
No permit shall be issued by the Floodplain Administrator until the
requirements of these regulations have been met.
(Ord. 2011-114, passed 2-15-2011) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.023 APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   An application for a floodplain development permit shall be required
for all development activities located wholly within, partially within, or in
contact with an identified special flood hazard area. The application shall be
made by the owner of the property or his or her authorized agent, herein
referred to as the applicant, prior to the actual commencement of the
construction on a form furnished for that purpose. Where it is unclear whether
a development site is in a special flood hazard area, the Floodplain
Administrator may require an application for a floodplain development permit to
determine the development’s location.
   (B)   Applications shall include but not be limited to:
      (1)   Site plans drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions,
and topography of the area in question; the location of existing or proposed
structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities, and the location
of the foregoing;
      (2)   Elevation of the existing natural ground where structures are
proposed;
      (3)   Elevation of the lowest floor, including basement, of all proposed
structures;
      (4)   Any other material and information as may be requested by the
Floodplain Administrator to determine conformance with, and provide enforcement
of these regulations; and
      (5)   Technical analyses conducted by the appropriate design professional
registered in the state and submitted with an application for a floodplain
development permit when applicable:
         (a)   Floodproofing certification for nonresidential floodproofed
structure as required in §
152.050;
         (b)   Certification that fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor
of a structure not meeting the design requirements of §
152.049(E) are designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces;
         (c)   Description of any watercourse alteration or relocation that the
flood carrying capacity of the watercourse will not be diminished, and
maintenance assurances as required in §
152.054(C);
         (d)   A hydrologic and hydraulic analysis demonstrating that the
cumulative effect of proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood by more than one foot in special flood hazard areas
where the Federal Emergency Management Agency has provided base flood
elevations but no floodway as required by §
152.054(B);
         (e)   A hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analysis showing impact
of any development on flood heights in an identified floodway as required by §
152.054(A); and
         (f)   Generation of base flood elevation(s) for subdivision and large-
scale developments as required by §
152.048.
(Ord. 2011-114, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 152.024 REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF A FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Review.
      (1)   After receipt of a complete application, the Floodplain
Administrator shall review the application to ensure that the standards of
these regulations have been met. No floodplain development permit application
shall be reviewed until all information required in §
152.023 has been received by the Floodplain Administrator.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator shall review all floodplain
development permit applications to assure that all necessary permits have been
received from those federal, state or local governmental agencies from which
prior approval is required. The applicant shall be responsible for obtaining
permits as required including permits issued by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers under Section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act and Section 404 of the
Clean Water Act, and the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency under Section 401
of the Clean Water Act.
   (B)   Approval. Within 30 days after the receipt of a complete application,
the Floodplain Administrator shall either approve or disapprove the
application. If an application is approved, a floodplain development permit
shall be issued. All floodplain development permits shall be conditional upon
the commencement of work within one year. A floodplain development permit shall
expire one year after issuance unless the permitted activity has been
substantially begun and is thereafter pursued to completion.
(Ord. 2011-114, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 152.025 INSPECTIONS.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall make periodic inspections at appropriate
times throughout the period of construction in order to monitor compliance with
permit conditions.
(Ord. 2011-114, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 152.026 POST-CONSTRUCTION CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   The following as-built certifications are required after a floodplain
development permit has been issued:
   (A)   For new or substantially improved residential structures, or
nonresidential structures that have been elevated, the applicant shall have a
Federal Emergency Management Agency elevation certificate completed by a
registered surveyor to record as-built elevation data. For elevated structures
in Zone A and Zone AO areas without a base flood elevation, the elevation
certificate may be completed by the property owner or owner’s representative;
and
   (B)   For all development activities subject to the standards of §
152.030(A), a letter of map revision.
(Ord. 2011-114, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 152.027 REVOKING A FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be revocable if, among other things,
the actual development activity does not conform to the terms of the
application and permit granted thereon. In the event of the revocation of a
permit, an appeal maybe taken to the Appeals Board in accordance with §§
152.065 through
152.070.
(Ord. 2011-114, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 152.028 EXEMPTION FROM FILING A DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   An application for a floodplain development permit shall not be
required for:
      (1)   Maintenance work such as roofing, painting, and basement sealing,
or for small nonstructural development activities (except for filling and
grading) valued at less than $5,000;
      (2)   Development activities in an existing or proposed manufactured home
park that are under the authority of the Ohio Department of Health and subject
to the flood damage reduction provisions of the O.A.C. § 3701;
      (3)   Major utility facilities permitted by the Ohio Power Siting Board
under R.C. § 4906;
      (4)   Hazardous waste disposal facilities permitted by the Hazardous
Waste Siting Board under R.C. § 3734; or
      (5)   Development activities undertaken by a federal agency and which are
subject to Federal Executive Order 11988 - Floodplain Management.
   (B)   Any proposed action exempt from filing for a floodplain development
permit is also exempt from the standards of these regulations.
(Ord. 2011-114, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 152.029 MAP MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES.
   To meet National Flood Insurance Program minimum requirements to have flood
data reviewed and approved by FEMA, and to ensure that the village’s flood
maps, studies, and other data identified in §
152.006 accurately represent flooding conditions so appropriate floodplain
management criteria are based on current data, the following map maintenance
activities are identified:
   (A)   Requirement to submit new technical data.
      (1)   For all development proposals that impact floodway delineations or
base flood elevations, the community shall ensure that technical data
reflecting those changes be submitted to FEMA within six months of the date the
information becomes available. These development proposals include:
         (a)   Floodway encroachments that increase or decrease base flood
elevations or alter floodway boundaries;
         (b)   Fill sites to be used for the placement of proposed structures
where the applicant desires to remove the site from the special flood hazard
area;
         (c)   Alteration of watercourses that result in a relocation or
elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts; and
         (d)   Subdivision or large scale development proposals requiring the
establishment of base flood elevations in accordance with §
152.048.
      (2)   It is the responsibility of the applicant to have technical data,
required in accordance with division (A) above, prepared in a format required
for a conditional letter of map revision or letter of map revision, and
submitted to FEMA. Submittal and processing fees for these map revisions shall
be the responsibility of the applicant.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall require a conditional letter of
map revision prior to the issuance of a floodplain development permit for:
         (a)   Proposed floodway encroachments that increase the base flood
elevation; and
         (b)   Proposed development which increases the base flood elevation by
more than one foot in areas where FEMA has provided base flood elevations but
no floodway.
      (4)   Floodplain development permits issued by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be conditioned upon the applicant obtaining a letter of map
revision from FEMA for any development proposal subject to division (A)(1) of
this section.
   (B)   Right to submit new technical data. The Floodplain Administrator may
request changes to any of the information shown on an effective map that does
not impact floodplain or floodway delineations or base flood elevations, such
as labeling or planimetric details. A submission shall include appropriate
supporting documentation made in writing by the Mayor of the village, and may
be submitted at any time.
   (C)   Annexation/detachment. Upon occurrence, the Floodplain Administrator
shall notify FEMA in writing whenever the boundaries of the village have been
modified by annexation or the community has assumed authority over an area, or
no longer has authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations
for a particular area. In order that the village’s flood insurance rate map
accurately represent the village’s boundaries, include within the notification
a copy of a map of the village suitable for reproduction, clearly showing the
new corporate limits or the new area for which the village has assumed or
relinquished floodplain management regulatory authority.
(Ord. 2011-114, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 152.030 DATA USE AND FLOOD MAP INTERPRETATION.
   The following guidelines shall apply to the use and interpretation of maps
and other data showing areas of special flood hazard.
   (A)   In areas where FEMA has not identified special flood hazard areas, or
in FEMA identified special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation and
floodway data have not been identified, the Floodplain Administrator shall
review and reasonably utilize any other flood hazard data available from a
federal, state, or other source.
   (B)   Base flood elevations and floodway boundaries produced on FEMA flood
maps and studies shall take precedence over base flood elevations and floodway
boundaries by any other source that reflect a reduced floodway width and/or
lower base flood elevations. Other sources of data, showing increased base
flood elevations and/or larger floodway areas than are shown on FEMA flood maps
and studies, shall be reasonably used by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   When preliminary flood insurance rate maps and/or flood insurance
study have been provided by FEMA:
      (1)   Upon the issuance of a letter of final determination by the FEMA,
the preliminary flood hazard data shall be used and replace all previously
existing flood hazard data provided from FEMA for the purposes of administering
these regulations; and/or
      (2)   Prior to the issuance of a letter of final determination by FEMA,
the use of preliminary flood hazard data shall only be required where no base
flood elevations and/or floodway areas exist or where the preliminary base
flood elevations or floodway area exceed the base flood elevations and/or
floodway widths in existing flood hazard data provided from FEMA. This
preliminary data may be subject to change and/or appeal to FEMA.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator shall make interpretations, where needed,
as to the exact location of the flood boundaries and areas of special flood
hazard. A person contesting the determination of the location of the boundary
shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as
provided in §§
152.065 through
152.070.
   (E)   Where a map boundary showing an area of special flood hazard and field
elevations disagree, the base flood elevations or flood protection elevations
(as found on an elevation profile, floodway data table, established high water
marks, and the like) shall prevail.
(Ord. 2011-114, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 152.031 SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE DETERMINATIONS.
   (A)   Damages to structures may result from a variety of causes including
flood, tornado, wind, heavy snow, fire, and the like. After a damage event, the
Floodplain Administrator shall:
      (1)   Determine whether damaged structures are located in special flood
hazard areas;
      (2)   Conduct substantial damage determinations for damaged structures
located in special flood hazard areas; and
      (3)   Make reasonable attempt to notify owners of substantially damaged
structures of the need to obtain a floodplain development permit prior to
repair, rehabilitation, or reconstruction.
   (B)   Additionally, the Floodplain Administrator may implement other
measures to assist with the substantial damage determination and subsequent
repair process. These measures include issuing press releases, public service
announcements, and other public information materials related to the floodplain
development permits and repair of damaged structures; coordinating with other
federal, state, and local agencies to assist with substantial damage
determinations; providing owners of damaged structures materials and other
information related to the proper repair of damaged structures in special flood
hazard areas; and assist owners of substantially damaged structures with
increased cost of compliance insurance claims.
(Ord. 2011-114, passed 2-15-2011)
USE AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.045 GENERALLY.
   The following use and development standards apply to development wholly
within, partially within, or in contact with any special flood hazard area as
established in §
152.006 or §
152.030(A).
(Ord. 2011-114, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 152.046 USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Permitted uses. All uses not otherwise prohibited in this section or
any other applicable land use regulation adopted by the village are allowed,
provided they meet the provisions of these regulations.
   (B)   Prohibited uses. 
      (1)   Private water supply systems in all special flood hazard areas
identified by FEMA, permitted under R.C. Chapter 3701; and
      (2)   Infectious waste treatment facilities in all special flood hazard
areas, permitted under R.C. Chapter 3734.
(Ord. 2011-114, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 152.047 WATER AND WASTEWATER SYSTEMS.
   The following standards apply to all water supply, sanitary sewerage, and
waste disposal systems not otherwise regulated by the Ohio Revised Code:
   (A)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems;
   (B)   New and replacement sanitary sewerage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into floodwaters; and
   (C)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 2011-114, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 152.048 SUBDIVISIONS AND LARGE DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage and are subject to all applicable standards in these
regulations;
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage;
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage;
   (D)   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data
are not available, the applicant shall provide a hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analysis that generates base flood elevations for all subdivision
proposals and other proposed developments containing at least 50 lots or five
acres, whichever is less; and
   (E)   The applicant shall meet the requirement to submit technical data to
FEMA in §
152.029(A)(1)(d) when a hydrologic and hydraulic analysis is completed that
generates base flood elevations as required by division (D) of this section.
(Ord. 2011-114, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 152.049 RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
Where a structure, including its foundation members, is elevated on fill to or
above the base flood elevation, the requirements for anchoring (this division
(A)) and construction materials resistant to flood damage (division (B) below)
are satisfied.
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with methods and materials resistant to flood damage.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or elevated so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure, including manufactured homes, shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated to or above the flood protection elevation. Where flood
protection elevation data are not available the structure shall have the lowest
floor, including basement, elevated at least two feet above the highest
adjacent natural grade.
   (E)   New construction and substantial improvements, including manufactured
homes, that do not have basements and that are elevated to the flood protection
elevation using pilings, columns, posts, or solid foundation perimeter walls
with openings sufficient to allow unimpeded movement of floodwaters may have an
enclosure below the lowest floor, provided the enclosure meets the following
standards:
      (1)   Be used only for the parking of vehicles, building access, or
storage; and
      (2)   Be designed and certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls
by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters; or
      (3)   Have a minimum of two openings on different walls having a total
net area not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area,
and the bottom of all the openings being no higher than one foot above grade.
The openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other coverings or
devices, provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.
   (F)   Manufactured homes shall be affixed to a permanent foundation and
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy. Methods of anchoring may include but are not limited to use of over-
the-top or frame ties to ground anchors.
   (G)   Repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon a determination
that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s
continued designation as a historic structure and is the minimum necessary to
preserve the historic character and design of the structure, shall be exempt
from the development standards of this section.
(Ord. 2011-114, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 152.050 NONRESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial, or other nonresidential structure shall meet the requirements of §
152.049(A) through (C) and (E) through (G).
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial, or other nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest
floor, including basement, elevated to or above the level of the flood
protection elevation; or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall meet all of the following standards:
      (1)   Be dry floodproofed so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water to the level of the flood
protection elevation;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
      (3)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect,
through the use of a Federal Emergency Management Agency floodproofing
certificate, that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with
divisions (B)(1) and (2) above.
   (C)   Where flood protection elevation data are not available, the structure
shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated at least two feet
above the highest adjacent natural grade.
(Ord. 2011-114, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 152.051 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Relief to the elevation or dry floodproofing standards may be granted
for accessory structures containing no more than 600 square feet.
   (B)   The structures must meet the following standards:
      (1)   They shall not be used for human habitation;
      (2)   They shall be constructed of flood resistant materials;
      (3)   They shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the
minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      (4)   They shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
      (5)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated or floodproofed to or above the level of the flood protection
elevation; and
      (6)   They shall meet the opening requirements of §
152.049(E)(3).
(Ord. 2011-114, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 152.052 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   Recreational vehicles must meet at least one of the following standards:
   (A)   They shall not be located on sites in special flood hazard areas for
more than 180 days;
   (B)   They must be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
   (C)   They must meet all standards of §
152.049.
(Ord. 2011-114, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 152.053 ABOVE-GROUND GAS OR LIQUID STORAGE TANKS.
   All above-ground gas or liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to prevent
flotation or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic
loads.
(Ord. 2011-114, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 152.054 ASSURANCE OF FLOOD CARRYING CAPACITY.
   Pursuant to the purpose and methods of reducing flood damage stated in these
regulations, the following additional standards are adopted to assure that the
reduction of the flood carrying capacity of watercourses is minimized.
   (A)   Development in floodways.
      (1)   In floodway areas, development shall cause no increase in flood
levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge. Prior to issuance of
a floodplain development permit, the applicant must submit a hydrologic and
hydraulic analysis, conducted by a registered professional engineer,
demonstrating that the proposed development would not result in any increase in
the base flood elevation; or
      (2)   Development in floodway areas causing increases in the base flood
elevation may be permitted, provided all of the following are completed by the
applicant:
         (a)   Meet the requirements to submit technical data in §
152.029(A);
         (b)   An evaluation of alternatives which would not result in
increased base flood elevations and an explanation why these alternatives are
not feasible;
         (c)   Certification that no structures are located in areas that would
be impacted by the increased base flood elevation;
         (d)   Documentation of individual legal notices to all impacted
property owners within and outside the community, explaining the impact of the
proposed action on their property; and
         (e)   Concurrence of the Mayor of the village and the Chief Executive
Officer of any other communities impacted by the proposed actions.
   (B)   Development in riverine areas with base flood elevations but no
floodways.
      (1)   In riverine special flood hazard areas identified by FEMA, where
base flood elevation data are provided but no floodways have been designated,
the cumulative effect of any proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, shall not increase the base flood
elevation more than one foot at any point. Prior to issuance of a floodplain
development permit, the applicant must submit a hydrologic and hydraulic
analysis, conducted by a registered professional engineer, demonstrating that
this standard has been met; or
      (2)   Development in riverine special flood hazard areas identified by
FEMA where base flood elevation data are provided but no floodways have been
designated causing more than one foot increase in the base flood elevation may
be permitted, provided all of the following are completed by the applicant:
         (a)   An evaluation of alternatives which would result in an increase
of one foot or less of the base flood elevation and an explanation why these
alternatives are not feasible; and
         (b)   Division (A)(2) above, items (a) and (c) through (e).
   (C)   Alterations of a watercourse. For the purpose of these regulations, a
watercourse is ALTERED when any change occurs within its banks. The extent of
the banks shall be established by a field determination of the “bankfull
stage.” The field determination of “bankfull stage” shall be based on methods
presented in Chapter 7 of the USDA Forest Service General Technical Report RM-
245, Stream Channel Reference Sites: An Illustrated Guide to Field Technique or
other applicable publication available from a federal, state, or other
authoritative source. For all proposed developments that alter a watercourse,
the following standards apply:
      (1)   The bankfull flood carrying capacity of the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse shall not be diminished. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit, the applicant must submit a description of the
extent to which any watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of the
proposed development, and certification by a registered professional engineer
that the bankfull flood carrying capacity of the watercourse will not be
diminished.
      (2)   Adjacent communities, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and the
Ohio Department of Natural Resources, Division of Water, must be notified prior
to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse. Evidence of this notification
must be submitted to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      (3)   The applicant shall be responsible for providing the necessary
maintenance for the altered or relocated portion of the watercourse so that the
flood carrying capacity will not be diminished. The Floodplain Administrator
may require the permit holder to enter into an agreement with the village
specifying the maintenance responsibilities. If an agreement is required, it
shall be made a condition of the floodplain development permit.
      (4)   The applicant shall meet the requirements to submit technical data
in §
152.029(A)(1)(c) when an alteration of a watercourse results in the relocation
or elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts.
(Ord. 2011-114, passed 2-15-2011)
APPEALS AND VARIANCES
§ 152.065 APPEALS BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Council shall appoint an Appeals Board consisting of three resident
electors of the village. The members shall serve four-year terms, after which
time they shall be reappointed or replaced by Council. Each member shall serve
until his or her successor is appointed.
   (B)   A chairperson shall be elected by the members of the Appeals Board.
Meetings of the Appeals Board shall be held as needed and shall be held at the
call of the Chairperson, or in his or her absence, the Acting Chairperson. All
meetings of the Appeals Board shall be open to the public except that the Board
may deliberate in executive sessions as part of quasi-judicial hearings in
accordance with law. The Appeals Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings
showing the vote of each member upon each question and shall keep records of
all official actions. Records of the Appeals Board shall be kept and filed in
the office of the Fiscal Officer of Council at the Bellville Municipal
Building, 44 West Main Street, Bellville, Ohio.
(Ord. 2011-114, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 152.066 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Appeals Board shall hear and decide appeals where it is alleged
there is an error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by
the Floodplain Administrator in the administration or enforcement of these
regulations.
   (B)   Authorize variances in accordance with §
152.068.
(Ord. 2011-114, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 152.067 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person affected by any notice and order, or other official action
of the Floodplain Administrator may request and shall be granted a hearing on
the matter before the Appeals Board, provided that the person shall file,
within ten days of the date of the notice and order, or other official action,
a brief statement of the grounds for the hearing or for the mitigation of any
item appearing on any order of the Floodplain Administrator’s decision. The
appeal shall be in writing, signed by the applicant, and be filed with the
Floodplain Administrator. Upon receipt of the appeal, the Floodplain
Administrator shall transmit the notice and all pertinent information on which
the Floodplain Administrator’s decision was made to the Appeals Board.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the notice of appeal, the Appeals Board shall fix a
reasonable time for the appeal, give notice in writing to parties in interest,
and decide the appeal within a reasonable time after it is submitted.
(Ord. 2011-114, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 152.068 VARIANCES.
   Any person believing that the use and development standards of these
regulations would result in unnecessary hardship may file an application for a
variance. The Appeals Board shall have the power to authorize, in specific
cases, variances from the standards of these regulations, not inconsistent with
federal regulations, that will not be contrary to the public interest where,
owing to special conditions of the lot or parcel, a literal enforcement of the
provisions of these regulations would result in unnecessary hardship.
   (A)   Application for a variance.
      (1)   Any owner, or agent thereof, of property for which a variance is
sought shall make an application for a variance by filing it with the
Floodplain Administrator, who upon receipt of the variance shall transmit it to
the Appeals Board.
      (2)   The application at a minimum shall contain the following
information: name, address, and telephone number of the applicant; legal
description of the property; parcel map; description of the existing use;
description of the proposed use; location of the floodplain; description of the
variance sought; and reason for the variance request.
   (B)   Notice for public hearing. The Appeals Board shall schedule and hold a
public hearing within 30 days after the receipt of an application for a
variance from the Floodplain Administrator. Prior to the hearing, a notice of
the hearing shall be given in one or more newspapers of general circulation in
the community at least ten days before the date of the hearing.
   (C)   Public hearing. At the hearing the applicant shall present statements
and evidence as the Appeals Board requires. In considering the variance
applications, the Appeals Board shall consider and make findings of fact on all
evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified in other sections of
these regulations, and the following factors:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of the damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use that
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      (6)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (D)   Variances. 
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship due to the physical characteristics of the property.
Increased cost or inconvenience of meeting the requirements of these
regulations does not constitute an exceptional hardship to the applicant;
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights beyond that which is allowed in these regulations;
additional threats to public safety; extraordinary public expense, nuisances,
fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict with existing local laws;
         (d)   A determination that the structure or other development is
protected by methods to minimize flood damages; or
         (e)   A determination that the variance is the minimum necessary,
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
      (2)   Upon consideration of the above factors and the purposes of these
regulations, the Appeals Board may attach conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of these regulations.
   (E)   Other conditions for variances.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (2)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing items in divisions (C)(1) to (C)(11)
above have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond one-half
acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
      (3)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation and the cost of flood insurance will
be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest floor
elevation.
(Ord. 2011-114, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 152.069 PROCEDURE AT HEARINGS.
   (A)   All testimony shall be given under oath.
   (B)   A complete record of the proceedings shall be kept, except
confidential deliberations of the Board, but including all documents presented
and a verbatim record of the testimony of all witnesses.
   (C)   The applicant shall proceed first to present evidence and testimony in
support of the appeal or variance.
   (D)   The Administrator may present evidence or testimony in opposition to
the appeal or variance.
   (E)   All witnesses shall be subject to cross-examination by the adverse
party or his or her counsel.
   (F)   Evidence that is not admitted may be proffered and shall become part
of the record for appeal.
   (G)   The Board shall issue subpoenas upon written request for the
attendance of witnesses. A reasonable deposit to cover the cost of issuance and
service shall be collected in advance.
   (H)   The Board shall prepare conclusions of fact supporting its decision.
The decision may be announced at the conclusion of the hearing and thereafter
issued in writing or the decision may be issued in writing within a reasonable
time after the hearing.
(Ord. 2011-114, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 152.070 APPEAL TO THE COURT.
   Those aggrieved by the decision of the Appeals Board may appeal the decision
to the County Court of Common Pleas, as provided in R.C. Chapter 2506.
(Ord. 2011-114, passed 2-15-2011)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.080 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, erected, constructed,
reconstructed, repaired, extended, converted, enlarged or altered without full
compliance with the terms of these regulations and all other applicable
regulations which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of these regulations,
unless specifically exempted from filing for a development permit as stated in
§
152.028.
   (B)   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit shall be a violation
of these regulations and shall be punishable in accordance with §
152.999.
   (C)   Floodplain development permits issued on the basis of plans and
applications approved by the Floodplain Administrator authorize only the use,
and arrangement, set forth in the approved plans and applications or amendments
thereto. Use, arrangement, or construction contrary to that authorized shall be
deemed a violation of these regulations and punishable in accordance with §
152.999.
(Ord. 2011-114, passed 2-15-2011) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.081 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Whenever the Floodplain Administrator determines that there has been a
violation of any provision of these regulations, he or she shall give notice of
the violation to the person responsible therefor and order compliance with
these regulations as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   The notice and order shall:
      (1)   Be put in writing on an appropriate form;
      (2)   Include a list of violations, referring to the section or sections
of these regulations that have been violated, and order remedial action, which,
if taken, will effect compliance with the provisions of these regulations;
      (3)   Specify a reasonable time for performance;
      (4)   Advise the owner, operator, or occupant of the right to appeal; and
      (5)   Be served on the owner, occupant, or agent in person.
   (C)   However, this notice and order shall be deemed to be properly served
upon the owner, occupant, or agent if a copy thereof is sent by registered or
certified mail to the person’s last known mailing address, residence, or place
of business, and/or a copy is posted in a conspicuous place in or on the
dwelling affected.
(Ord. 2011-114, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of these regulations or failure to comply with
any of its requirements shall be deemed to be a strict liability offense, and
shall constitute a fourth degree misdemeanor. Any person who violates these
regulations or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall upon
conviction thereof be fined or imprisoned as provided by the laws of the
village. Each day the violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the village from taking any
other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. The
village shall prosecute any violation of these regulations in accordance with
the penalties stated herein.
(Ord. 2011-114, passed 2-15-2011)
CHAPTER 153: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Authority and title
   
153.002   Purpose
   
153.003   Scope
   
153.004   Requirements
   
153.005   Waivers
   
153.006   Surveillance and compliance
   
153.007   Stormwater and sediment complaint
   
153.008   Plan review
   
153.009   Permits
   
153.010   Fees
   
153.011   Assurance of completion
   
153.012   Relationship to subdivision regulations
   
153.013   Definitions
Stormwater Runoff Control; Management Plan
   
153.030   Purpose
   
153.031   Calculating stormwater runoff
   
153.032   Criteria
   
153.033   Methods
   
153.034   Maintenance of stormwater drainage facilities and control structures
   
153.035   Preparing a stormwater management plan
   
153.036   Data collection
   
153.037   Runoff calculations before development
   
153.038   Data analysis
   
153.039   Drainage system development
   
153.040   Plan for runoff control
   
153.041   Runoff calculations and control criteria
   
153.042   Develop design details
   
153.043   Submission of a stormwater management plan
   
153.044   Checklist for engineering details
Drainage Plan
   
153.065   Preparing a drainage plan
   
153.066   Data collection
   
153.067   Runoff calculations before development
   
153.068   Runoff calculations and control criteria
   
153.069   Plan for runoff control
   
153.070   Develop design details
   
153.071   Submission of a drainage plan
   
153.072   Checklist for stormwater control plans
   
Appendix A: Stormwater Management Procedures Flowchart
   
Appendix B: Application and Permit Form
   
Appendix C: Sample Site Plan for a Permit Requiring Neither a Management or
Drainage Plan
Cross-reference:
   Storm water utility charge, see §
52.01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 AUTHORITY AND TITLE.
   (A)   These rules and regulations have been developed under authority of
R.C. Chapter 7.
   (B)   The official title of these rules shall be known as the “Village of
Bellville, Ohio Stormwater Management Rules and Regulations.” However, simply
“Stormwater Rules and Regulations” may be used as a short title.
(Ord. 16-96, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 153.002 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The village has adopted stormwater management rules and regulations to
establish feasible and economically reasonable standards to achieve a level of
management and conservation practices which will abate erosion of the soil and
abate the degradation of the waters of the state by soil sediment in
conjunction with nonfarm, earth-disturbing activities.
   (B)   It is the further intent of these rules and regulations to:
      (1)   Permit development without increasing downstream flooding, erosion,
or sedimentation;
      (2)   Reduce damage to receiving streams and impairment of their capacity
which may be caused by increases in the quantity and/or rate of water
discharged; and
      (3)   Establish a basis for the design of all storm drainage systems
which will preserve the rights and options of both the dominant and servient
property owners and help assure the long-term adequacy of storm drainage
systems.
(Ord. 16-96, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 153.003 SCOPE.
   Stormwater management rules and regulations shall apply to all nonfarm,
earth-disturbing activities performed within the village except the following:
   (A)   Strip mining operations regulated under R.C. Chapter 1513;
   (B)   Surface mining operations regulated under R.C. Chapter 1514;
   (C)   Public transportation, utilities, and drainage improvements or
maintenance thereof undertaken by a government agency or political subdivision
in accordance with a statement of their standard policies that have been
approved by the Board of County Commissioners or the Chief of the Division of
Soil and Water Districts; and
   (D)   Earth-disturbing activities involving less than 1,000 square feet.
(Ord. 16-96, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 153.004 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any person performing any nonfarm, earth-disturbing activity that
disturbs 20,000 square feet or more on five or more contiguous acres of land
owned by one person or operated as one development unit shall be required to
file a stormwater management plan and obtain a stormwater management permit.
   (B)   Any person performing any nonfarm, earth-disturbing activity that
disturbs 20,000 square feet or more on less than five contiguous acres of land
owned by one person or operated as one development unit is required to submit a
drainage plan and obtain a stormwater management permit, but is not required to
submit a stormwater management plan.
   (C)   Any person performing any nonfarm, earth-disturbing activity that
disturbs less than 20,000 square feet is required to obtain a stormwater
management permit but is not required to submit a drainage plan or a stormwater
management plan. However, all nonfarm, earth-disturbing activities are not
exempt from compliance with all other criteria as outlined in this text and
Village Administrator (VA) can be consulted to determine what type of controls
are necessary to comply with these rules and regulations. See the flowchart in
Appendix A to this chapter.
   (D)   Any person performing any nonfarm activity resulting in the
construction on impervious land surface exceeding 5,000 square feet shall be
required to file a stormwater management plan and obtain a stormwater
management permit.
(Ord. 16-96, passed 4-15-1996; Ord. 31-02, passed 10-7-2002)
§ 153.005 WAIVERS.
   (A)   It is conceivable that earth-disturbing activities not automatically
subject to exemptions by §
153.003 may exist such that the submission of a stormwater management or
drainage plan serves no real purpose. This activity shall be eligible for a
waiver from the requirement of submitting a plan and/or other requirements of
this text.
   (B)   To obtain a waiver, the developer shall submit a written request to
the Village Administrator. This request shall include sufficient data to
determine that granting a waiver will not result in excessive stormwater runoff
or rate of runoff.
(Ord. 16-96, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 153.006 SURVEILLANCE AND COMPLIANCE.
   The VA or his or her designated representative may inspect land disturbance
areas to determine that these rules and regulations are being complied with. If
it is determined that a violation of these rules and regulations exists, the
responsible person shall be notified of the deficiencies or noncompliance by
the VA in writing by certified mail. If after a reasonable time, one week,
after receipt of the letter for voluntary compliance, the deficiency or
noncompliance has not been corrected, the VA shall seek an injunction or other
appropriate relief to secure compliance with these rules and regulations. In
granting relief the court may order the construction of control improvements or
implementation of other control measures.
(Ord. 16-96, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 153.007 STORMWATER AND SEDIMENT COMPLAINT.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a complaint, the VA shall inspect the site and file a
report containing his or her finding. If the VA determines that the activity
does comply, the complainant shall be given written notice and action shall
stop at this point. However, if the VA finds that a violation has occurred,
action as outlined in §
153.006 shall be started.
   (B)   During the complaint review, the VA may request recommendations from
the Village Engineer and the County Regional Planning Commission.
(Ord. 16-96, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 153.008 PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   The VA shall review the stormwater management plan or drainage plan
within 30 days of receipt and indicate his or her approval or disapproval to
the person who filed the plan. Indication of disapproval shall include the plan
deficiencies and the procedure for filing a revised plan. Pending preparation
and approval of a revised plan, earth-disturbing activities shall not be
allowed until the deficiencies have been properly addressed.
   (B)   During the plan review, the VA may request recommendations pertaining
to the proposed plan from the Village Engineer and the County Regional Planning
Commission. The Village Engineer shall be responsible for review and approval
of all hydrological and runoff calculations as well as design and construction
inspection for all stormwater management facilities.
(Ord. 16-96, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 153.009 PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit application forms will be made available in the office of the
VA. Information required will be sufficient for the VA to determine if a
stormwater management or drainage plan is necessary and that the developer
intends to comply with these regulations.
   (B)   At a minimum the application shall include the following:
      (1)   Name, address, and phone number of property owner or other person
responsible for the activity;
      (2)   Location of the activity;
      (3)   Description of the activity:
         (a)   Type of activity;
         (b)   Area to be disturbed;
         (c)   Area to be rendered permanently impervious; and
         (d)   Size of parcel or lot on which activity will occur.
      (4)   If no plan is required, a signed statement that the responsible
person will comply with these rules and regulations.
   (C)   The VA will review the permit application and if no stormwater
management plan or drainage plan is required, issue a permit within 30 working
days. In the event that a plan is required, the permit will be issued upon
approval of detail design, payment of required review inspection fees and
posting of required bonds.
(Ord. 16-96, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 153.010 FEES.
   (A)   Permit fees. 
      (1)   Permit fees in the amount fixed by resolution of the Council shall
be paid to the VA’s office when a permit is issued.
      (2)   No permit fee will be required for the following: nonfarm, earth-
disturbing activities which have been provided for in an already approved
stormwater management plan (i.e., home construction on a lot in an approved
subdivision with an approved stormwater management plan.)
   (B)   Plan checking and field inspection fees. The person who obtains a
stormwater management permit upon approval of a stormwater management plan or
drainage plan, which involves design and construction of stormwater management
facilities, shall submit design plans, quantities, and itemized cost estimates
for the facilities, prepared by a professional registered engineer to the
Village Engineer for review and approval. A certified check in the amount of
$150 or 1% of the construction costs estimates, whichever is greater, shall be
paid to the Village Engineer to offset the costs of plan review and field
inspection of the construction to assure its conformance with the plans. The
check shall be made out to the “Village of Bellville, Ohio.”
(Ord. 16-96, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 153.011 ASSURANCE OF COMPLETION.
   (A)   The assurance of completion of the stormwater drainage facilities and
control structures included in a stormwater management plan or drainage plan
which has been developed and approved under these regulations shall be
satisfied by the furnishing of a 100% performance, or surety bond. The Village
Engineer shall approve the sufficiency of the bond and the Village Solicitor
shall approve the bond as to form.
   (B)   If it can be shown that assurance of completion is being provided
through another regulation of the village, this section of the stormwater
management regulations may be waived by the VA.
(Ord. 16-96, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 153.012 RELATIONSHIP TO SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   If a stormwater management plan or drainage plan developed under these
regulations is in conflict with requirements of the village’s subdivision
regulations, an exception may be made to the subdivision regulations by the VA
where it is determined that the exception will enhance the management of
stormwater and not be detrimental to the health, safety, and general well-being
of life and inhabitants within the county.
   (B)   A subdivision plat prepared in conjunction with a stormwater
management or drainage plan shall include the necessary covenants and
restrictions to assure compliance with these regulations and conformance to the
approved stormwater management or drainage plan.
(Ord. 16-96, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 153.013 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, certain rules or word usage apply to
the text as follows.
      (1)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense; and the
singular includes the plural, unless the context clearly indicates the
contrary.
      (2)   The term “shall” is always mandatory and not discretionary; the
word “may” is permissive.
      (3)   The word or term not interpreted or defined by this section shall
be used with a meaning of common or standard utilization, so as to give these
rules and regulations their most reasonable application.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DEVELOPMENT AREA. Any contiguous (abutting) area owned by one person or
operated as one development unit and used or being developed for nonfarm
commercial, industrial, residential, or other nonfarm purposes upon which
earth-disturbing activities are planned or underway.
      DRAINAGE AREA.
         (a)   The contributing area to a single drainage basin, expressed in
acres, square miles, or other unit or area. Also called CATCHMENT AREA,
WATERSHED, and RIVER BASIN. 
         (b)   The area served by a drainage system receiving storm and surface
water or by a watercourse.
      DRAINAGEWAY. A route or course along which water moved or may move to
drain an area.
      EARTH-DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any grading, excavating, filling, or other
alteration of the earth’s surface where natural or human-made ground cover is
destroyed and which may result in increased rate and/or volume or runoff and/or
contribute to erosion and sediment pollution.
      FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas.
      PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, agency,
unincorporated association, municipal corporation, county or state agency, the
federal government, or any combination thereof.
      POST-DEVELOPMENT. The state of condition of the earth’s surface after
urbanization occurs. Other terms are DEVELOPED, FUTURE, and AFTER DEVELOPMENT.
      PRE-DEVELOPMENT. The state of condition of the earth’s surface averaged
over the last five years. Other terms are BEFORE DEVELOPMENT.
      PRIMARY DRAINAGE SYSTEM. The part of the storm drainage system which is
used regularly for collecting, transporting, and disposing of storm runoff,
snow melt, and miscellaneous minor flows. The capacity of the primary drainage
design storm which may have a frequency of occurrence of once in two, five, or
ten years. The primary system is also termed the CONVENIENCE SYSTEM, MINOR
SYSTEM, or the STORM SEWER SYSTEM, and may include many features ranging from
curbs and gutters to storm sewer pipes and open drainageways.
      SECONDARY DRAINAGE SYSTEM. The storm drainage system which carries the
runoff from a storm having a frequency of occurrence of once in 100 years. The
secondary system will function whether or not it has been planned and designed,
and whether or not improvements are situated wisely in respect to it. The
secondary system usually includes many features such as streets, ravines, and
major drainage channel. Storm sewer systems may reduce the flow in many parts
of the primary system by storing and transporting water underground.
      STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM. The surface and subsurface system for the removal
of water from the land, including both the natural elements of streams,
gullies, ravines, marshes, swales, and ponds, whether of intermittent or
continuous natural and human-made elements which include conduits and
appurtenant features, culverts, ditches, channels, storage facilities, streets,
and the storm sewer system.
      STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FACILITIES. The drainage system and control
facilities necessary to meet the runoff criteria of these regulations.
      VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR. The person designated by the Village Mayor to
manage, conduct, and control village utilities and improvements pursuant to
R.C. § 735.273.
(Ord. 16-96, passed 4-15-1996)
STORMWATER RUNOFF CONTROL; MANAGEMENT PLAN
§ 153.030 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Stormwater management rules and regulations have been adopted for the
purpose of regulating nonfarm, earth-disturbing activities to control sediment
pollution caused by accelerated soil erosion.
   (B)   Stormwater management is premised on the fact that nonfarm, earth-
disturbing activities which increase the rate and/or volume of runoff will also
increase the rate of erosion and volume of sedimentation. Therefore, earth-
disturbing activities which increase the rate and/or volume of runoff shall be
required to control the discharge rate of runoff prior to its release to off-
site land.
   (C)   The purpose of controlling the release rate is as follows:
      (1)   Permit development without increasing the flooding of the lands;
      (2)   Reduce damage to receiving streams and impairment of their
capacity; and
      (3)   Establish a basis for design of a stormwater drainage control
system which will preserve the rights and options of both the dominant and
servient property owners.
   (D)   These rules and regulations shall apply to all nonfarm, earth-
disturbing activities within the village except those activities as outlined in
§
153.003.
(Ord. 16-96, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 153.031 CALCULATING STORMWATER RUNOFF.
   The amount of stormwater runoff depends on a great number of factors. Some
of these factors are reasonably fixed and subject to accurate determination,
such as watershed size and shape, ground slope, and natural ponding. Others are
seasonably variable, such as frozen soil, soil moisture condition, evaporation,
or transpiration. Still others vary by land use, such as type of ground cover
and impervious areas or method of cultivation. Finally, rainfall is extremely
variable as to seasonal conditions and other variable factors. Despite the
indeterminate nature of these factors, methods for obtaining useful information
about stormwater runoff have been developed. One of the four methods described
in Urban Hydrology for Small Watersheds, Technical Release Number 55, by the
Soil Conservation Service of the United States Department of Agriculture and
its Ohio Supplement shall be used to determine stormwater runoff.
(Ord. 16-96, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 153.032 CRITERIA.
   Stormwater runoff control addresses both peak rate and total volume of
runoff.
   (A)   The peak rate of runoff from an area after development shall not
exceed the peak rate of runoff from the same area before development for all
storms up to a 100-year frequency, 24-hour storm. In addition, if it is found a
proposed development will increase the volume of runoff from an area, the peak
rate of runoff from certain more frequent storms must be controlled further.
There are two reasons why increases in volume of runoff require a control
standard more restrictive than controlling just the predevelopment conditions.
First, increases in volume mean runoff will be flowing for a longer period of
time. When routed through a watershed, these longer flows may join at some
point downstream; thereby creating peak flows and the problems associated with
peak flow (flooding). This is known as the “routing problem.” Second, longer
flow periods of large runoff quantities place a highly erosive stress on
natural channels. This stress can be minimized by reducing the rate of
discharge. The permissible peak rate shall be determined as follows.
      (1)   Determine the total volume of runoff from a one-year frequency, 24-
hour storm occurring over the area before and after development.
      (2)   Determine the percent of increase in volume due to development and
using this percentage, pick the critical storm from the following table:
If the percentage of increase in volume of runoff is: The critical storm for
                                                      discharge limitation will
Equal to or greater than and less than                be:

--                       10                           1 year
10                       20                           2 years
20                       50                           5 years
50                       100                          10 years
100                      250                          25 years
250                      500                          50 years
500                      --                           100 years
 
   (B)   The peak rate of runoff from the critical storm occurring over the
development shall not exceed the peak rate of runoff from a one-year frequency
storm occurring over the same area under predevelopment conditions. Storms of
less frequent occurrence (longer return period) than the critical storm shall
have peak rate of runoff not greater than for the same storm under
predevelopment conditions. As an example, if the total volume is shown to be
increased by 35%, the critical storm is a five-year storm. The peak rate of
runoff for all storms up to this intensity shall be controlled so as not to
exceed the peak rate of runoff from a one-year frequency storm under
predevelopment conditions in the area. The runoff from a more intense storm
need only be controlled so as not to exceed the predevelopment peak rate from
the same frequency of storm.
   (C)   Storage volume does not have to be provided for off-site upstream
areas. Flow from these areas will be routed through the drainage system in the
development under consideration at a rate determined in the same manner as the
on-site system. Off-site land use averaged over the last five preceding years
before the development shall be considered as the predevelopment condition for
the purpose of calculating changes in runoff.
(Ord. 16-96, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 153.033 METHODS.
   (A)   The runoff control criteria of this section necessitates the use of
stormwater runoff control facilities in many development situations. While the
success of the facilities for accomplishing a desirable level of runoff control
cannot be denied, it is often found these same facilities have the potential
for adding to neighborhood plight or a threat to public health and safety.
   (B)   It is not necessary that the “cure” be worse than the “disease.”
Stormwater storage facilities can be functional and wholly unobstrusive. Their
presence can offer an added amenity to the urban environment. This positive
impact can be achieved by adherence to four basic steps in the implementation
of stormwater runoff control facilities. These are:
      (1)   Proper selection of runoff control mechanisms;
      (2)   Proper design of facility;
      (3)   Construction of facility in strict adherence to design; and
      (4)   Regular maintenance program and designated responsibility for
maintenance.
(Ord. 16-96, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 153.034 MAINTENANCE OF STORMWATER DRAINAGE FACILITIES AND CONTROL STRUCTURES.
   (A)   When stormwater drainage facilities and control structures that
benefit more than one property owner are of a permanent nature, the village
will assume responsibility for the structures once they have been constructed
and are functioning according to approved plans and once a perpetual
maintenance agreement, under R.C. § 6131.63, has been filed and approved.
   (B)   Ownership and/or easements for the purpose of maintenance shall be
granted to the village for access to all structures and facilities for which
the village is assuming permanent maintenance responsibility.
   (C)   Financing of the permanent maintenance of the control structures and
facilities shall be handled through a perpetual maintenance agreement, whereby
all benefiting property owners of the improvement will be assessed their
proportionate share of the maintenance costs. These assessments will be
certified in accordance with R.C. § 6131.63.
(Ord. 16-96, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 153.035 PREPARING A STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   A stormwater management plan is required on large developments. The plan
development process is one which provokes thought and consideration of
management alternatives relative to stormwater early in the overall site
development process.
(Ord. 16-96, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 153.036 DATA COLLECTION.
   Inventory shall be made of the existing site conditions to gather
information which will help persons develop the most effective stormwater
management plan. The information obtained should be plotted on a map and
verbally explained in the narrative and calculations portion of the plan.
   (A)   Topography. A 100-scale topographic map of the site should be prepared
to show the existing contour elevations at two-foot intervals or other
intervals as deemed necessary by the VA. When drainage areas are large and
cover areas off-site, a USGS map may be used to show these off-site drainage
areas.
   (B)   Drainage patterns. All existing drainage swales and patterns should be
located and clearly marked on the topographic map.
   (C)   Soils. Major solid type(s) on the site should be determined and shown
on the topographic map. Soil information can be obtained from the Soil Survey
of Richland County, issued September 1975. Soil information should be plotted
directly onto the map or an overlay of the same scale for ease of
interpretation.
   (D)   Ground cover. The existing vegetation on the site should be shown on
the topographic map. Such features as tree clusters, grassy areas, and unique
vegetation should be located on the map. In addition, existing denuded or
exposed soil areas should be indicated on the map.
(Ord. 16-96, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 153.037 RUNOFF CALCULATIONS BEFORE DEVELOPMENT.
   With the completion of the data collection activity, the peak rate of runoff
and runoff volume for the pre-development situation can be determined for the
one-year storm.
(Ord. 16-96, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 153.038 DATA ANALYSIS.
   (A)   When all of the data collected has been considered together, a picture
of the site potential and limitations should begin to emerge. The drainage
engineer should be able to determine those areas of the site which have
potentially critical drainage hazards.
   (B)   The following are some important points to consider in site analysis.
      (1)   Topography. The primary topographic considerations are slope
steepness and slope length. Because of the adverse effect of long and steep
slope on runoff, special care should be used in these potentially critical
areas.
      (2)   Natural drainage. Natural drainage patterns exist on the land and
should be identified on the plan so they can be incorporated into the proposed
drainage system. Where it is possible, natural drainageways should be used to
convey the runoff to avoid the expense and problems of constructing artificial
drainage systems. Care should also be taken to be sure that the existing
natural drainage system is not overloaded.
      (3)   Soils. The major soil consideration from a runoff control
standpoint is rate of infiltration of rainwater. Soils of the county have been
grouped into hydrologic soil classes, which can be used to help determine the
areas where critical runoff will occur.
      (4)   Ground cover. The type of existing ground cover greatly affects the
amount of existing runoff from any given area. By knowing the types of existing
ground cover and the proposed types, critical areas of runoff can be
determined.
(Ord. 16-96, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 153.039 DRAINAGE SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   After analyzing the data and determining the site limitations, the
drainage engineer can then develop a drainage system. He or she should work
with the site planner and attempt to locate the buildings, roads, and parking
lots to exploit the strengths of the site and overcome the drainage limitations
of the site.
   (B)   The following are some points to consider in making these decisions:
      (1)   Fit drainage systems to terrain. The drainage engineer should
attempt to tailor the drainage system to the existing site conditions. This
will avoid unnecessary land disturbance and therefore help reduce the increase
in runoff.
      (2)   Confine construction to areas not in drainageways. Any land
disturbance in drainageways will necessitate the installation of more costly
control measures.
      (3)   Cluster building sites together. Clustering building sites together
outside of natural drainageways minimizes the amount of disturbed cover and
helps reduce the increase in runoff.
      (4)   Minimize impervious areas. Keep paved areas such as parking lots
and roads to a minimum. The more land that is kept in vegetative cover, the
more water will have a chance to infiltrate, thus minimizing runoff.
(Ord. 16-96, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 153.040 PLAN FOR RUNOFF CONTROL.
   When the general layout of the site has been decided upon, a plan to control
runoff from the site must be formulated.
   (A)   Divide the site into drainage areas. Determine how much and where the
runoff will travel over the site. Consider how runoff can be controlled in each
drainage area. Remember, in most cases it is easier to control runoff in
smaller areas than to try to handle the entire site at some location downstream
as it leaves the site.
   (B)   Select runoff control practices. Runoff control practices can be
divided into three broad categories: vegetative controls, structural controls,
and management measures. Local or state handbooks should be used to select and
design appropriate vegetative and structural practices. Management measures are
common-sense types of controls used to help minimize the need for physical
practices.
      (1)   Vegetative control. Keep in mind that the first line of defense is
to prevent increase in volume or rate of runoff. This is accomplished by
protecting the soil surface as much as possible and not decreasing the overland
flow time.
      (2)   Structural controls. Where large increases in runoff occur,
structural practices are generally the only way to control runoff. It is very
important that structural practices be selected, designed, and constructed
according to standards and specifications of the engineer of jurisdiction.
Improper use or inadequate installation can create problems which are greater
than the structure was designed to solve.
      (3)   Management measures. Good site design and construction management
is as important as any physical practices used for runoff control. The
following are only some management considerations:
         (a)   Design site to help reduce runoff in open areas and not increase
it;
         (b)   Use stage construction;
         (c)   Use as few pipe systems as possible; and
         (d)   Allow runoff to travel around within the site and not just
straight through.
(Ord. 16-96, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 153.041 RUNOFF CALCULATIONS AND CONTROL CRITERIA.
   (A)   Once the developer has made a decision on how the site is to be
developed and on the drainage system that is going to be used, the runoff
calculations can be made, control criteria that has to be met can be determined
and a check can be made to determine if the proposed drainage system meets that
criteria. If the runoff criteria have not been met, then it may be necessary
for the developer to go through an iterative process of revising development
plans and making runoff calculations until the runoff criteria can be met.
   (B)   Following are the recommended steps in making runoff calculations for
a proposed development plan.
      (1)   Determine critical storm by calculating the volume of runoff from
the one-year storm after development and comparing it to the volume of runoff
from the one-year storm before development (§
153.037). The percentage increase will determine the critical storm (§
153.032). The allowable peak rate of discharge from the site for all more
frequent storms up to the critical storm is then limited to the peak rate of
discharge from the one-year storm before development.
      (2)   Calculate volume of runoff and peak rate of discharge from the
critical storm after development and compare with the allowable peak rate of
runoff and storage capacity of any proposed structures.
      (3)   Calculate volume of runoff and peak rate of discharge from all
storms more intense than the critical storm for both before and after
development conditions. After-development peak rates of runoff must be less
than or equal to before-development peak rates of runoff. Check capacity of
control structures. For the purpose of these regulations, the following storms
shall be considered one-year, two-year, five-year, ten years, 25 years, 50
years, and 100 years.
(Ord. 16-96, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 153.042 DEVELOP DESIGN DETAILS.
   Once a development plan and drainage system that meets the runoff criteria
has been decided upon, the detail design plans for the drainage facilities and
control structures should be developed. Detail design plans shall be developed
according to generally accepted engineering principles and approved by the
Village Engineer. It is important at this point in time to work closely with
the Village Engineer to make sure that all facilities and structures are being
designed according to standards and criteria that exist for these types of
facilities and structures within that jurisdiction.
(Ord. 16-96, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 153.043 SUBMISSION OF A STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   The plan submission shall consist of three parts, a narrative, site plan,
and engineering details. The narrative verbally explains the problems and the
solutions with all necessary documentation. The site plan is a series of maps
pictorially explaining the information in the narrative. The engineering
details are detail drawings, calculations, and specifications on the stormwater
control structures and drainage facilities to be constructed as part of the
development.
(Ord. 16-96, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 153.044 CHECKLIST FOR ENGINEERING DETAILS.
NARRATIVE
___________ Project description - Briefly describe the nature and purpose of the
            land-disturbing activity and the amount of grading involved.
___________ Existing site conditions - A description of the existing topography,
            vegetation, and drainage.
            Adjacent areas - A description of neighboring areas such as streams,
___________ lakes, residential areas, roads, and the like which might be affected
            by the land disturbance.
            Soils - A brief description of the soils on the site giving such
___________ information as soil name, mapping unit, erodibility, permeability,
            depth, texture, and soil structure.
___________ Critical areas - A description of areas on the site which have
            potentially serious runoff problems.
___________ Runoff control measures - A description of the methods which will be
            used to control runoff on the site.
            Stormwater management considerations - Would the development of the
___________ site result in increased peak rates of runoff? Would this result in
            flooding or channel degradation downstream? If so, consideration
            shall be given to stormwater control structures on the site.
___________ Maintenance - A schedule of regular inspections and repair of erosion
            and sediment control structures should be set forth.
___________ Calculations - Runoff calculations
SITE PLAN
___________ Vicinity map - A small map locating the site in relation to the
            surrounding area.
___________ Existing contours - The existing contours of the site should be shown
            on a map.
___________ Existing vegetation - The existing tree lines, grassy areas, or
            unique vegetation should be shown on a map.
___________ Soils - The boundaries of the different soil types should be shown on
            a map.
___________ Indicate north - The direction of north in relation to the site
            should be shown.
___________ Critical runoff areas - Areas with potentially serious runoff
            problems should be shown on a map.
___________ Existing drainage patterns - The dividing lines and the direction of
            flow for the different drainage areas should be shown on a map.
___________ Development plan - Location and size of all areas to be rendered
            impervious.
___________ Final contours - Changes to the existing contours should be shown on
            a map.
___________ Limits of clearing and grading - Areas which are to be cleared and
            graded should be outlined on a map.
            Location of drainage facilities control structures - The locations of
___________ the drainage facilities and control structures to be used on the site
            should be shown on a map. Facilities or structures subject to §
            153.034 shall be delineated.
ENGINEERING DETAILS
            The following shall be submitted for drainage facilities or control
            structures to be constructed:
___________ Design calculations
___________ Design drawings
___________ Specifications
___________ Quantities
 
(Ord. 16-96, passed 4-15-1996)
DRAINAGE PLAN
§ 153.065 PREPARING A DRAINAGE PLAN.
   Smaller site developments can result in major increases in runoff, but the
alternatives for handling them are usually limited. Wherever possible we would
encourage the developer to go through all of the steps under §
153.044. However, in the situation where there is only one alternative for
surface development on a small site and it is merely a matter of designing a
drainage system to meet the runoff criteria, we only require submission of
sufficient information to show that the criteria are being met and that the
drainage facilities and control structures have been designed to standard.
(Ord. 16-96, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 153.066 DATA COLLECTION.
   In order to analyze the before-development condition, the same data that is
required for a management plan is required for a drainage plan. Follow §
153.036.
(Ord. 16-96, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 153.067 RUNOFF CALCULATIONS BEFORE DEVELOPMENT.
   With the completion of the data collection activity, the peak rate of runoff
and runoff volume for the pre-development situation can be determined for the
one-year storms.
(Ord. 16-96, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 153.068 RUNOFF CALCULATIONS AND CONTROL CRITERIA.
   In most cases for small sites, the developer will know how the surface of
the site is to be developed. He or she can then go directly to calculation of
increase of runoff and determination of runoff criteria following the steps in
§
153.040.
(Ord. 16-96, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 153.069 PLAN FOR RUNOFF CONTROL.
   (A)   From the results of §
153.068, the developer can determine the type and magnitude of control
practices he or she will need, in most cases being some type of structural
control. These controls should be located on the site plan and runoff
calculations checked.
   (B)   The Village of Bellville may allow the use of alternative actions when
it determines that off-site alternatives for comprehensive stormwater
management would result in an improvement of water quality and a reduction in
stormwater quantity. Alternative actions may include, but are not limited to
the following. All engineering actions shall be approved by the Village
Administrator and Village Engineer:
      (1)   Fees, in an amount specified by the Village of Bellville to be
applied to community-wide stormwater management facilities.
      (2)   Implementation of off-site stormwater management facilities and/or
the retrofit of an existing practice to increase quality and quantity control.
      (3)   Stream, floodplain, or wetland restoration.
      (4)   Acquisition or conservation easements on protected open space
significantly contributing to stormwater control such as wetland restoration.
   (C)   Such alternatives described in division (B) shall meet the following
standards:
      (1)   Shall achieve the same level of stormwater quantity and quality
control that would be achieved by the on-site controls required under this
regulation.
      (2)   Implemented in the same Hydrologic Unit Code (HUC) 12 watershed
unit as the proposed development project.
      (3)   An inspection and maintenance agreement as described in Chapter
937.08.D.10 is established to secure operations and treatment in perpetuity.
(Ord. 16-96, passed 4-15-1996; Ord. 16-2017, passed 2-21-2017)
§ 153.070 DEVELOP DESIGN DETAILS.
   Once a development plan and drainage system that meets the runoff criteria
has been decided upon, then detail design plans for the drainage facilities and
structures should be developed. It is important at this point in time to work
closely with the Village Engineer to make sure that all facilities and
structures are being designed according to any standards and criteria that may
exist for these types of structures within the village.
(Ord. 16-96, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 153.071 SUBMISSION OF A DRAINAGE PLAN.
   The plan submission shall consist of three parts, a narrative, site plan,
and engineering details. The narrative verbally describes the site, the
project, and the control practices to be employed. The site plan is a series of
maps pictorially explaining the information in the narrative. The engineering
details are detail drawings, calculations, and specifications on the drainage
facilities and control structures to be constructed as part of the development.
(Ord. 16-96, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 153.072 CHECKLIST FOR STORMWATER CONTROL PLANS.
NARRATIVE
___________ Project description - Briefly describe the nature and purpose of
            the land disturbing activity and the amount of grading involved.
___________ Existing site conditions - A description of the existing
            topography, vegetation, and drainage.
___________ Runoff control measures - A description of the methods which will
            be used to control runoff on the site.
___________ Maintenance - A schedule of regular inspection and repair of
            erosion and sediment control structures should be set forth.
___________ Calculations - Runoff calculations
SITE PLAN
___________ Vicinity map - A small map locating the site in relation to the
            surrounding area.
___________ Existing contours - The existing contours of the site should be
            shown on a map.
___________ Existing vegetation - The existing tree lines, grassy areas, or
            unique vegetation should be shown on a map.
___________ Soils - The boundaries of the different soil types should be shown
            on a map.
___________ Indicate north - The direction of north in relation to the site
            should be shown.
___________ Existing drainage patterns - The dividing lines and the direction
            of flow for the different drainage areas should be shown on a map.
___________ Development plan - Location and size of all areas to be rendered
            impervious.
___________ Limits of clearing and grading - Areas which are to be cleared and
            graded should be outlined on a map.
            Location of drainage facilities and control structures - The
            locations of the drainage facilities and control structures to be
___________ used on the site should be shown on a map. Facilities or structures
            subject to §
            153.034 shall be delineated.
ENGINEERING DETAILS
            The following shall be submitted for drainage facilities or control
            structures to be constructed:
___________ Design calculations
___________ Design drawings
___________ Specifications
___________ Quantities
 
(Ord. 16-96, passed 4-15-1996)
APPENDIX A: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES FLOWCHART
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-23.jpg]
 
(Ord. 16-96, passed 4-15-1996)
APPENDIX B: APPLICATION AND PERMIT FORM
Editor's Note: Appendix B is available in PDF, click HERE
   Application Number ___________________
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
APPLICATION & PERMIT
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT RULES & REGULATIONS
Village of Bellville, Ohio
1.   Applicant    Name:
_______________________________________________________________
            Street Address:
________________________________________________________
            City, State, Zip:
_______________________________________________________
            Telephone:
____________________________________________________________
2.   Property Location
            Street Address or Lot No.:
______________________________________________
            City or Village:
________________________________________________________
            Section:_________________________ Township:
____________________________
            Owner’s
Name_________________________________________________________
            Street Address:
________________________________________________________
            City, State, Zip:
_______________________________________________________
            Property Size (Acres):
__________________________________________________
3.   Description of nonfarm earth-disturbing activity to be performed on the
above property:_______
   ____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
   Area to be disturbed (Square Feet):
___________________________________________________
   Area to be rendered impermeable (Square Feet):
________________________________________
4.   Attach a site plan and any other additional information (i.e., lot survey,
and the like), that you have available that might help depict your intention
and how the end product of this activity will look.
5.   I, the undersigned, being responsible for the above described earth-
disturbing activity, understand that the activity is subject to and must comply
with the Stormwater Management Rules and Regulations of the Village of
Bellville, Ohio.
Signature:____________________________________________________________________
Title (Owner, Developer, other):
__________________________________________________
Street Address:________________________________________________________________
City, State, Zip:
_______________________________________________________________
Date: _______________________________________________________________________
   ******************
   PERMIT FEE OF $25 MUST ACCOMPANY APPLICATION
   ******************
   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The above application has been reviewed and the applicant has been:
      Permit issued
      No permit required
      Advised that a Stormwater Management Plan must be submitted, reviewed,
and approved prior to the issuance of a permit on ________________________.
      Advised that a Drainage Plan must be submitted, reviewed, and approved
prior to the issuance of a permit on _____________________________________.
      Advised that there is an existing approved Stormwater Management Plan for
this site that must be complied with.
      Advised that no plan is required, but applicant is not exempt from
compliance to the regulations.
                        _________________________________________________________
                        Village Administrator
                        _________________________________________________________
                        Date
COMMENTS:
(Ord. 16-96, passed 4-15-1996)
APPENDIX C: SAMPLE SITE PLAN FOR A PERMIT REQUIRING NEITHER A MANAGEMENT OR
DRAINAGE PLAN
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-28.jpg]
 
(Ord. 16-96, passed 4-15-1996)
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISIONS AND IMPROVEMENTS
Section
Title, Scope and Jurisdiction
   
154.001   Official name
   
154.002   Purpose
   
154.003   Jurisdiction
   
154.004   Administration
   
154.005   Interpretation
   
154.006   Separability
   
154.007   Relation to other laws
   
154.008   Amendments
   
154.009   Public improvement standards for all land; adopted
Construction of Language and Definitions
   
154.020   Construction of language
   
154.021   Definitions
Subdivision Procedures
   
154.035   Purpose
   
154.036   Minor subdivision
   
154.037   Major subdivision review procedure
   
154.038   Preliminary plan stage
   
154.039   Final subdivision plat stage
Design Standards
   
154.050   Purpose
   
154.051   Physical considerations; natural physical features
   
154.052   Minor subdivision
   
154.053   Major subdivision
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.065   Administration
   
154.066   Recording of plat
   
154.067   Sale of land within subdivisions
   
154.068   Revision of plat after approval
   
154.069   Filing, plan review and inspection fees
   
154.070   Variances
   
154.071   Appeal
Requirements for Open Space and Planned Unit Developments
   
154.085   General
   
154.086   Standards
   
154.087   Conformity to existing streets and thoroughfare plan
   
154.088   Public streets
   
154.089   Staging of residential planned development
   
154.090   Common open space guarantee
   
154.091   Staging of nonresidential construction
   
154.092   Condominiums
 
   
154.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Jurisdiction of subdivision regulations
   
Appendix B: Definitions and examples of subdivisions; flow chart
   
Appendix C: Affidavit of compliance
   
Appendix D: Application for tentative approval of preliminary plan
   
Appendix E: Typical preliminary subdivision plat
   
Appendix F: Application for final plat approval
   
Appendix G: Typical final subdivision plat
   
Appendix H: Required statements and signatures to be affixed on the subdivision
plan
   
Appendix I: Extension agreement for approval or disapproval of subdivision plat
   
Appendix J: Application for subdivision variance
   
Appendix K: Examples in determining lot depth
TITLE, SCOPE AND JURISDICTION
§ 154.001 OFFICIAL NAME.
   The official name of these regulations shall be “Subdivision Regulations for
the Village of Bellville, Ohio” and shall be referred to herein as “these
regulations.”
(Ord. 17-96, § 100, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 154.002 PURPOSE.
   These regulations are adopted by the Council for the purpose of protecting
the health, safety and general welfare of residents of the village; and to
regulate the development of subdivided lands; to promote the proper arrangement
of streets and lots; to provide direct and proper access for individual parcels
to streets through ownership; to provide for the adequate and convenient
provision of open spaces, utilities, and access to service and emergency
vehicles; to insure adequate provision of water, drainage, sewer ad other
sanitary facilities; and to provide for the administration of these regulations
to insure the equitable processing of all subdivision plats by providing
uniform standards and procedures for observance by both the approving authority
and the subdivider.
(Ord. 17-96, § 100.1, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 154.003 JURISDICTION.
   These regulations shall be applicable to all subdivision of land within the
village.
(Ord. 17-96, § 100.2, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 154.004 ADMINISTRATION.
   These regulations shall be administered in accordance with §
154.065.
(Ord. 17-96, § 100.3, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 154.005 INTERPRETATION.
   The provisions and requirements of these regulations shall be construed to
be minimum requirements and nothing herein shall prohibit the subdivider from
exceeding these minimum requirements.
(Ord. 17-96, § 100.4, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 154.006 SEPARABILITY.
   If any section, paragraph, clause, phrase, or part of these regulations is
for any reason held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the judgment
shall not affect the validity of the remaining provisions of these regulations
or the application of those provisions to any person or circumstances.
(Ord. 17-96, § 100.5, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 154.007 RELATION TO OTHER LAWS.
   The provisions of these regulations shall supplement any and all laws of the
State of Ohio, ordinances of the village, or any and all rules promulgated by
authority of such law relating to the purpose or scope of these regulations.
When the requirements or provisions of these regulations differ with the
requirement of any other lawfully adopted rules, regulations or ordinances, the
more restrictive regulations shall apply.
(Ord. 17-96, § 100.6, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 154.008 AMENDMENTS.
   These regulations may be amended following public hearings and other
requirements as specified in R.C. § 711.09.
(Ord. 17-96, § 100.7, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 154.009 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS FOR ALL LAND; ADOPTED.
   The “Public Improvement Standards for the Village of Bellville, Ohio” as
summarized by Ordinance 15-96 and as amended by Ordinance 11-2019 are hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in full herein. Copies are available through
the village offices.
(Ord. 15-96, passed 4-15-1996; Ord. 11-2016, passed 5-3-2016; Ord. 11-2019,
passed 5-7-2019)
CONSTRUCTION OF LANGUAGE AND DEFINITIONS
§ 154.020 CONSTRUCTION OF LANGUAGE.
   The following rules of construction shall apply to the provision of these
regulations:
   (A)   The particular shall control the general.
   (B)   In case of any difference of meaning or implication between the
provisions of these regulations and any caption or illustration, the provisions
shall control.
   (C)   The word “shall” is always mandatory and not discretionary. The word
“may” or “should” is permissive.
   (D)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; and words
used in the singular number shall include the plural, and the plural the
singular, unless the context clearly indicates the contrary.
   (E)   Unless the context clearly indicates the contrary, where a regulation
involves two or more items, conditions, provisions, or units connected by the
conjunction “and”, “or”, “either/or”, the conjunction shall be interpreted as
follows:
      (1)   “And” indicates that all connected items, conditions, provisions or
events shall apply.
      (2)   “Or” indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions, or
events may apply singly but not in combination.
   (F)   Terms herein not defined shall have the meaning customarily assigned
to them.
(Ord. 17-96, § 200, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 154.021 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of these regulations, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A quantity of land dedicated to the public to provide a private or
secondary means of access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting
on a street and having a minimum width of 20 feet.
   BLOCK. Subdivided property surrounded by, but not separated by, one or more
of the following man-made or physical land features: private and public
dedicated street, unsubdivided acreage, rivers or streams, or by any other
physical feature which prevents continuity of development.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A street having one outlet open to vehicular traffic and the
other end permanently terminated by a vehicular turn-around.
   DEAD-END STREET. A street temporarily having only one outlet open to
vehicular traffic and not provided with a vehicular turn-around.
   EASEMENT. A quantity of land over which a liberty, privilege, or advantage
is granted by the owner to the public, a corporation, or particular person for
a specific use or purpose.
   ENGINEER, PROFESSIONAL. A person registered to practice professional
engineering by the State Board of Registration as specified in R.C. Chapter
4733.
   ESTATE DEVELOPMENT. A single-family residential subdivision having a minimum
lot size of two acres.
   FLOOD PLAIN. That land which has been or may hereafter be covered by flood
waters including but not limited to the regulatory flood. For the purpose of
these regulations, the regulatory flood shall be deemed to be a flood of 100-
year frequency.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Grading, street surfacing, curbs and gutters, sidewalks,
crosswalks, water mains, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, drainage facilities and
structures, street lights, street trees, and the appropriate appurtenances
required to render land suitable for the use proposed.
   LOT. A division of land separated or intended to be separated from other
divisions of land by description on a record subdivision plat, recorded survey
map, or by metes and bounds for the purpose of sale, lease or separate use.
   LOT, CORNER.  A lot at the point of intersection of and abutting on two or
more intersecting streets.
   LOT DEPTH. The distance between mid-points of straight lines connecting the
foremost points of the side lot lines in front and the rearmost points of the
side lot lines in the rear or the perpendicular distance between a straight
line connecting the foremost points of the side lot lines in front and a
parallel line passing through the furthest most point of the lot, whichever is
the shortest. See Appendix K at the end of these regulations.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot other than a corner lot, that abuts onto more
than one street.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINES. The lines defining the boundaries of a lot as described below:
      (1)   Front lot line. In the case of an interior lot, it is the line
separating the lot from the street right-of-way line. In the case of a corner
lot or double frontage lot, it is the line separating the lot from either
street right-of-way line.
      (2)   Rear lot line. The lot line opposite the front lot line. In the
case of a lot pointed at the rear, the rear lot line shall be an imaginary line
parallel to the front lot line, not less than 30 feet long lying farthest from
the front lot line and wholly within the lot.
      (3)   Side lot line. Any lot line other than the front or rear lot line.
   LOT WIDTH. The distance between the side lot lines along a line parallel to
the street right-of-way line at a specific point (i.e.: front lot line, street
right-of-way line or minimum building set back line). In the case of a curved
street it will be measured along the arc.
   MAJOR THOROUGHFARE PLAN. A plan showing the location of limited access
highways, major and minor arterial thoroughfares and collector thoroughfares,
as adopted by the village.
   MINIMUM BUILDING SETBACK LINE. An imaginary line between the front and rear
lot lines and parallel to the street right-of-way line and at such distance
from the right-of-way line as required by the minimum front yard setback
requirement in the applicable zoning district in which it is located. On a cul-
de-sac such distance shall be 30 feet from and parallel to the street right-of-
way line.
   OPEN SPACE DEVELOPMENT. Any subdivision of land which has both individual
building sites and common open space areas, such as park and recreation areas;
and is planned, designed and organized as a unified development capable of
providing a variety of residential dwellings.
   PEDESTRIAN WALKWAY. A dedicated public right-of-way limited to pedestrian
use.
   PERFORMANCE BOND. An agreement by and between the subdivider and a bonding
company in favor of the village, or an instrument approved by the village
between the subdivider and the village, for the amount of the estimated
construction cost guaranteeing the completion of the required improvements
according to the specifications set forth in these regulations, within the time
prescribed by the above agreement.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. Any subdivision of land where both individual
building sites and common property devoted to parks, playgrounds or school
sites is designed and organized to be capable of satisfactory use and operation
as a self-contained residential area. A PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT may include
commercial and planned industrial park developments.
   PRELIMINARY PLAN. A drawing for the purpose of study of a major subdivision
and which, if approved, permits proceeding with the preparation of a
subdivision plat.
   PUBLIC RESERVATION. A portion of a subdivision which is set aside for public
use and made available for public use and acquisition.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any person, firm, association, corporation, trust, board,
commission or other legal entity, duly authorized to furnish under state,
county, or municipal regulations to the public: gas, steam, electricity,
sewerage disposal and treatment, communication, telegraph, transportation,
water or waste disposal.
   REGIONAL PLANNING COMMISSION. The Richland County Regional Planning
Commission.
   REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR. A person licensed to practice surveying by the
State of Ohio Board of Registration under R.C. Chapter 4733.
   RESERVE STRIP. A strip of land parallel to, or at the end of, and abutting a
thoroughfare controlling the means of access onto a property.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. An area or strip of land on which an irrevocable right of
passage is taken or dedicated and accepted for public use.
   STREET or ROAD, PRIVATE. An approved right-of-way, improved and maintained
by the abutting property owners or by an association of property owners,
excluding off-street parking areas, driveways, and driveways to off-street
parking areas, in existence prior to the adoption of these regulations or
developed under these regulations, and which provides for vehicular, pedestrian
and utility access to abutting properties.
   STREET or ROAD, PUBLIC.
      (1)   A right-of-way, which has been properly dedicated, improved and
accepted for public use, and which provides for vehicular, pedestrian and
utility access to abutting properties.
      (2)   For the purpose of these regulations, STREET or ROAD shall be
further classified by function as follows:
         (a)   MAJOR ARTERIAL THOROUGHFARE. A street or road which is intended
to carry the major portion of traffic entering and leaving an urban area and
also significant intra-urban travel, such as between communities or between
major urban centers. MAJOR ARTERIALS should form the boundaries of residential
neighborhoods, but should not penetrate the neighborhoods. Service to abutting
lands is a subordinate function to the provision of travel service. Spacing
should be at one and one-half- to two-mile intervals except within the central
business area.
         (b)   MINOR ARTERIAL THOROUGHFARE. A street or road which is intended
to interconnect with and augment the MAJOR ARTERIAL THOROUGHFARE system and to
provide service to trips of moderate length and provide intra-community
continuity. The thoroughfares provide a lower level of traffic service than
MAJOR ARTERIAL THOROUGHFARES and place greater emphasis on land access,
although the movement of through traffic remains primary. MINOR ARTERIAL
THOROUGHFARES should also form the boundaries of, but not penetrate residential
neighborhoods. Spacing should be at three-quarter- to one-mile intervals except
within the central business area.
         (c)   COLLECTOR THOROUGHFARE. A street or road which is intended to
collect traffic from the local streets within the neighborhood and channel it
into the arterial system. Conversely, COLLECTOR THOROUGHFARES may penetrate the
neighborhood to distribute traffic from the arterial system to local streets
and thus to the ultimate destination. The COLLECTOR THOROUGHFARE should provide
both land access and through traffic service. Spacing should be at one-quarter-
to one-half-mile intervals.
         (d)   LOCAL. A street or road which is intended primarily to provide
access to abutting properties. Through traffic should be discouraged. Spacing
is at blocks.
         (e)   CUL-DE-SAC. A type of local street or road which is open only at
one end, with provision for a turn-around at the closed end. The primary
function is land access to abutting properties.
         (f)   BOULEVARD. A street or road on which traffic flow is divided
into each direction by a median strip which is usually landscaped with grass
and plantings. A BOULEVARD may serve the function of an arterial thoroughfare,
collector thoroughfare, or local street depending upon its relationship with
the overall transportation system.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any individual, firm, association, corporation, trust or any
legal entity, commencing proceedings under these regulations to subdivide land
within the village.
   SUBDIVISION.  
      (1)   For the purposes of these regulations, SUBDIVISION shall mean:
         (a)   The division of any parcel of land shown as a unit or as
contiguous units on the last preceding tax roll into two or more parcels for
the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of ownership, when:
            1.   Any one of such parcels after division is less than five
acres; or
            2.   The parcels so created by the division are five acres or more
and involve or create new streets (public or private) or easements of access to
an existing public dedicated street.
            3.   The parcel or parcels so created involve a sale or exchange
between adjoining owners and result in the creation of an additional building
site.
         (b)   The improvement of any one or more parcels of land for
residential and commercial or industrial structures or groups of structures
involving the division or allocation of land for the opening, widening, or
extension of any street or streets, except private streets, serving industrial
structures.
         (c)   A division or allocation of land as open spaces for common use
to owners, occupants, or leaseholders, or as easements for the extension and
maintenance of public sewer, water, storm drainage, or other public facilities.
      (2)   The following, although within the definition of a subdivision
hereunder, shall be exempt from the requirements of these regulations:
         (a)   The division or partition of land into one or more parcels of
five acres or more each not involving any new streets (public or private) or
easements of access to an existing public dedicated street.
         (b)   The division of land when the parcel or parcels so created
involve the sale or exchange between adjoining property owners that does not
create additional building sites.
      (3)   A division of land deemed to be a subdivision hereunder shall meet
the requirements of a minor or a major subdivision, all as set forth in these
regulations, unless specifically exempted therefrom by these regulations or
subjected to a variance after application and approval.
      (4)   For the purpose of determining the existence of a subdivision
described above, the following definitions shall apply:
         (a)   NEW STREETS (PUBLIC OR PRIVATE). Shall include, but not be
limited to, and in addition to the normal use of the term, a strip or parcel of
land of less than 60 feet in width used or intended to be used, in whole or in
part, as a means of ingress and egress to an existing dedicated street from one
or more of the parcels created by a division of land whether or not the strip
or parcel of land is owned by one or more of the owners of the parcels.
         (b)   EASEMENTS OF ACCESS. Shall include a means of ingress and egress
created by grant, reservation, or prescription from an existing public
dedicated street to one or more of the parcels created by a division of land.
         (c)   BUILDING SITE. Shall mean as to a sale or exchange between
adjoining landowners, a parcel created having sufficient size and location to
constitute a building site under applicable zoning regulations. Any sale or
exchange between adjoining land-owners determined not to create a new building
site will not exempt any future transfer of the parcel from these regulations
if the future sale or exchange will in fact create or be intended to create a
new building site.
   SUBDIVISION, MAJOR. Any subdivision that does not meet the definition of a
minor subdivision. Open space and planned unit developments shall be defined as
major subdivisions for the purposes of these regulations.
   SUBDIVISION, MINOR. A subdivision of a parcel along an existing street not
involving the opening, widening, or extension of any street or road, and
involving no more than five lots after the original tract has been completely
subdivided and provided that the same is not contrary to applicable platting,
subdividing or zoning regulations.
      (1)   An ORIGINAL TRACT within the meaning of this section is a
contiguous quantity of land held in common ownership which has not been platted
by the existing owner or owners.
      (2)   COMPLETELY SUBDIVIDED as used in this section means a tract which
is divided into as many lots as the subdivider intends for that tract.
      (3)   The further division of an original tract which has been previously
divided into five lots requires the replatting of the original tract.
   SUBDIVISION PLAT.
      (1)   The final map or drawing upon which the subdivided plan of
subdivision is presented to the village for approval.
      (2)   NOTE: See Appendix B, B1 through B6 at the end of these regulations
to provide examples and clarification of subdivisions.
   SURVEY. For the purpose of these regulations, is a boundary survey performed
by a registered land surveyor which complies to the Minimum Standards for
Boundary Surveys in the State of Ohio.
   VILLAGE. Village of Bellville, Ohio.
(Ord. 17-96, § 200.1, passed 4-15-1996)
SUBDIVISION PROCEDURES
§ 154.035 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to specify the steps that a subdivider
shall follow to subdivide land in the jurisdictional boundaries of the village,
as set forth in §
154.003 above.
(Ord. 17-96, § 300, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 154.036 MINOR SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Plat approval of a minor subdivision is not required if the proposed
subdivision of a parcel of land meets all of the following conditions:
      (1)   The proposed subdivision is located along an existing street or
road and does not involve the opening, widening, or extension of any street or
road.
      (2)   The proposed subdivision involves no more than five lots after the
original tract has been completely subdivided. COMPLETELY SUBDIVIDED as used in
this section means a tract which is divided into as many lots as the subdivider
intends for the tract.
      (3)   The proposed subdivision is not contrary to applicable zoning or
subdivision regulations.
      (4)   (a)   Note. The further division of an original tract which has
been previously divided into five lots requires the replatting of the original
tract.
         (b)   Note. Design Standards, §§
154.050,
154.051 and
154.052 are to be met even though plat approval is not required when a minor
subdivision meets conditions in divisions (A)(1) through (3) above.
   (B)   Any person proposing to create a subdivision which meets all of the
foregoing conditions shall submit the following information to the Tax Map
Department of the Richland County, Ohio Engineer's Office for approval without
plat.
      (1)   The conveyance documents, all copies thereof, together with two
copies of a survey drawing and legal description of the parcel or parcels
involved, prepared by a registered surveyor. The survey shall meet the Minimum
Standards for Boundary Surveys in the State of Ohio and include the following:
         (a)   Location of the proposed subdivision: tract, boundaries,
township, section number, north arrow and a scale.
         (b)   Location of all existing streets on or abutting the parcel to be
subdivided, existing buildings, individual water supply and sewage disposal
system, and pertinent easements of record.
         (c)   Lot lines with width and depth dimensions in feet and the areas
of all parcels being created by the division in acres.
         (d)   The location and dimensions of the original tract.
         (e)   The location, widths and other dimensions of proposed easements,
parks and other open spaces.
         (f)   Names of recorded owners of the parcel to be subdivided, date of
survey, and certification and seal of the registered surveyor to the effect
that the survey made by him or her balances and closes and that all dimensions
and geodetic details are accurate and correct.
      (2)    Affidavit of compliance provided by the approving authority. See
Appendix C.
   (C)   After the Tax Map Department of the Richland County, Ohio, Engineer's
Office is satisfied that the proposed subdivision is not contrary to division
(A)(1) through (3) above, the same shall be approved upon presentation of an
instrument of conveyance of the parcel or parcels and the same shall be stamped
“Approved: No Plat Required”. In the event the approving authority is not
satisfied that the proposed subdivision complies with these regulations, then
the person proposing the same shall submit the above information to the
Chairperson of the Village Planning Commission. The Village Planning
Commission, shall, within 20 working days after submission of the information
required in divisions (A) and (B), review the information and if the proposed
subdivision is in accordance with these regulations, as are specifically
applicable, they shall approve the same as a minor subdivision and upon
presentation of an instrument of conveyance for the parcel or parcels, shall
stamp thereon, “Approved by the Village Planning Commission; No Plat Required”
and have it signed by its clerk, secretary, or other official as may be
designated by it. In its consideration of the proposed subdivision, the Village
Planning Commission may require such other information as is pertinent to its
determination hereunder.
   (D)   Upon approval of the proposed subdivision, the survey shall be
recorded in the office of the Richland County Recorder with the recording of
the instrument of conveyance.
   (E)   Failure to file such approved survey within one year of approval shall
void the approval.
(Ord. 17-96, § 300.1, passed 4-15-1996)
Cross-reference:
   For examples and clarification, see Appendix B, at the end of this chapter
§ 154.037 MAJOR SUBDIVISION REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Preapplication conference. The subdivider may wish to consult with the
Village Planning Commission, the Village Engineer, or the Mansfield-Richland
County Health Department to avail himself or herself of their advice and
assistance in interpreting the purpose and effect of these regulations and the
requirements and standards contained herein.
   (B)   Subdivision review and approval.
      (1)   Major subdivisions shall be reviewed and approved in two stages:
         (a)   Preliminary plan stage.
         (b)   Final plat stage.
      (2)   However, in those instances where a development has been approved
in accordance with the provisions of adopted zoning resolutions governing open
space and planned unit development, then only the final plat stage requirements
as set forth in §
154.039 shall apply.
   (C)   Submission to State Highway Director. Before any plat is approved
affecting any land within 300 feet of the centerline of a proposed new highway,
or a highway for which changes are proposed as described in the certification
to local officials by the State Highway Director, or any land within a radius
of 500 feet from the point of intersection of the centerline with any public
road or highway, the Village Planning Commission shall give notice, by
registered or certified mail to the Highway Director. The Village Planning
Commission shall not approve the plat for 120 days from the date the notice is
received by the Highway Director. If the Highway Director notifies the Village
Planning Commission that he or she shall proceed to acquire the land needed,
then the Village Planning Commission shall refuse to approve the plat. If the
Highway Director notifies the Village Planning Commission that acquisition at
this time is not in the public interest, or upon the expiration of the 120-day
period or any extension thereof agreed upon by the Highway Director and the
property owner, the Village Planning Commission shall, if the plat is in
conformance with all provisions of these regulations, approve the plat.
(Ord. 17-96, § 300.2, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 154.038 PRELIMINARY PLAN STAGE.
   The preliminary plan stage requires the subdivider to provide all
information deemed necessary to enable the Village Planning Commission to
determine that the proposed layout is in conformity with these regulations.
This step also insures that the subdivider will not be required to expend
additional money without some indication that his or her final plat will
eventually be approved.
   (A)   Application. The subdivider must submit an application for preliminary
plan approval. It is recommended that this plan be prepared by a person capable
of furnishing all the data required by division (B) below.
      (1)   Two copies of the application for preliminary plan Approval. See
Appendix D at the end of this chapter.
      (2)   Seven copies of the preliminary plan prepared by a qualified,
registered civil engineer or surveyor, along with a reproducible tracing.
   (B)   The preliminary plan contents. The preliminary plan shall be drawn at
a minimum scale of 100 feet to one inch and shall be drawn on one or more
sheets no larger than 24 by 36 inches in size. When drawn on several sheets, an
index sheet showing the entire subdivision and match points on each sheet shall
be provided. The preliminary plan shall contain the following information: See
Appendix E at the end of this chapter.
      (1)   The name of the proposed subdivision (which shall not duplicate the
name of another subdivision in Richland County).
      (2)   The location of the proposed subdivision by township, range,
section, tract or other surveys.
      (3)   Names, addresses and phone numbers of the property owner, developer
and/or engineer or surveyor who prepared the preliminary plan.
      (4)   Scale of the plan, north point, and date of survey.
      (5)   The boundary lines of the proposed subdivision showing bearings,
dimensions and acreage, based on available data.
      (6)   The location, right-of-way and pavement widths of all existing
streets on and adjacent to the subdivision.
      (7)   The existing topography within the boundaries of the subdivision at
an interval of two-foot contours.
      (8)   The location and extent of all significant physical features of the
site including water courses, lakes (natural and man-made), marshes, tree
coverage and other significant natural features.
      (9)   The location of all existing sewers, water lines, power
transmission lines, pipelines and other utilities within and adjacent to the
tract.
      (10)   The location, width, and purpose of all other easements or rights-
of-way.
      (11)   The present zoning classification of the tract and adjacent
parcels and proposed zoning changes if any.
      (12)   Required building setback lines with dimensions.
      (13)   The proposed arrangement of all lots, numbers and approximate
dimensions of each lot.
      (14)   The location and size of all parcels to be reserved or dedicated
for public use.
      (15)   Development summary including: total acreage, number of lots,
average lot size, and acres in streets, public sites and other public uses.
      (16)   A vicinity map, on or accompanying the plan, indicating the
relationship of the proposed subdivision to existing subdivisions, existing and
proposed thoroughfares, and the proposed connections between existing and
proposed streets and roads.
   (C)   Submission of preliminary plan. Upon determination by the Village
Planning Commission that the preliminary plan has been properly submitted in
accordance with the procedures and requirements of division (A), above, the
Village Planning Commission shall accept the preliminary plan as being
officially submitted and it shall be so dated.
   (D)   Transmission of the preliminary plan.
      (1)   The Chairperson of the Village Planning Commission shall transmit a
copy of the preliminary plan to the members of the Village Planning Commission
for their review and recommendation.
      (2)   The Chairperson of the Village Planning Commission shall transmit
additional copies of the preliminary plan to the Village Engineer, County
Health Department and to school boards and utility companies, as he or she
deems necessary, for their review and comment.
      (3)   The Village Planning Commission shall make their review and
recommendation within 30 days from the date of transmission of the plan to that
body.
   (E)   Effect of preliminary plan approval.
      (1)   Approval of a preliminary plan by the Village Planning Commission
is not an acceptance of the subdivision plan for record, but only an expression
of approval of a general plan as a guide for the preparation of a final
subdivision plat for approval and recording upon fulfillment of all
requirements of these regulations.
      (2)   Approval shall be effective for a maximum period of 12 months
unless upon application by the subdivider, the Village Planning Commission
grants an extension. If a final subdivision plat has not been submitted for
approval within the time period, another preliminary plan must be submitted in
accordance with these regulations.
(Ord. 17-96, § 300.3, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 154.039 FINAL SUBDIVISION PLAT STAGE.
   (A)   Final subdivision plat required.
      (1)   The subdivider, after receiving approval of the preliminary plan
for the proposed subdivision, shall submit a final plat of the proposed
subdivision and drawings and specifications of all improvements required
therein. The final plat shall have incorporated all of the changes required by
the Village Planning Commission in their review of the preliminary plan.
Otherwise, it shall conform to the preliminary plan. The Final Plat may be
submitted for approval in sections provided that a preliminary plan has been
approved for the entire subdivision. The final plat shall be prepared by a
licensed land surveyor and supplementary improvement plans and specifications
shall be prepared by a registered professional engineer.
      (2)   The following information shall be submitted to the Village
Planning Commission for final subdivision plat approval:
         (a)   Two copies of the application for final plat approval; See
Appendix F at the end of this chapter.
         (b)   Six copies of the final subdivision plat and a reproducible
tracing;
         (c)   Six copies of final plat improvement drawings;
         (d)   One copy of protective covenants, if common property and/or
improvements (private streets) are part of the plat;
         (e)   One copy of performance guarantees approved by the Village
Solicitor and reviewed by the Village Engineer;
         (f)   A receipt indicated payment of plat filing fees (See §
154.069);
         (g)   Plan checking and field inspection fees (See §
154.069).
   (B)   Contents of the final subdivision plat drawing. The subdivision plat
shall be drawn in ink on tracing cloth or Mylar on sheets and shall be held to
a minimum of 18 by 24 inches and a maximum of 24 by 36 inches outside
dimensions, and shall be drawn at a minimum scale of 100 feet to one inch. When
necessary, the plat may be on several sheets accompanied by an index sheet
showing the entire subdivision. When on several sheets, match points shall be
shown. The subdivision plat shall show the following: (See Appendix G at the
end of this chapter.)
      (1)   Identification;
         (a)   Proposed name of the subdivision, township, tract and original
lot or section number.
         (b)   Location map at one inch equals 2,000 feet (U.S.G.S.) scale with
north arrow.
         (c)   The name and address of the subdivider, and the registered
engineer and/or surveyor who prepared the plat with appropriate registration
numbers and seals.
      (2)   Control points: all dimensions, angles and bearings are to be
referred to control points, nearest established street line, section lines, or
other established points.
      (3)   Lines and boundaries: centerlines and right-of-way lines of
streets, easements, and other rights-of-way; corporation lines; property lines
of all lots and parcels with distances; radii, arcs or chords and tangents of
all curves (nearest one hundredth of a foot), bearings or deflection angles
(nearest second).
      (4)   Streets: street names of each street within the proposed
subdivision and those adjoining the subdivision; right-of-way width accurately
shown with dimensions.
      (5)   Building setback lines accurately shown with dimensions.
      (6)   Lot identification: lots shall be numbered in consecutive order,
and when the subdivision is submitted in sections, lots shall be numbered
consecutively as each section is submitted whether or not the sections are
contiguous.
      (7)   Total site data, including acreage, number of lots, acres in parks
and other public uses.
      (8)   Land for public use: show boundaries and identify the use of all
parcels which are to be dedicated or reserved for public use or easements.
      (9)   Monuments: location and description of those found, set or to be
set.
      (10)   Names of recorded owners of adjoining unplatted land and reference
to subdivision plats of adjoining platted land by name, volume and page of
recorder's plat records.
      (11)   Certification and seal by a registered surveyor to the effect that
the plat represents a survey made by him or her which balances and closes, and
that monuments shown thereon exist or shall be set as shown, and that all
dimensions and geodetic details are correct.
      (12)   Notarized certification by the owner or owners of the subdivision
and the dedication of streets and other public areas.
      (13)   Notation for: (See Appendix H at the end of this chapter.)
         (a)   Certification of Village Engineer and Village Solicitor that
performance guarantees, if required, for the construction of required
improvements have been provided.
         (b)   Acceptance of dedication of streets, storm sewers, sanitary
sewers, water lines, and rights-of-way by the Village Council for their
ownership and future maintenance.
         (c)   Proper notations for transfer and record by the Richland County
Auditor and the Richland County Recorder.
         (d)   Approval of plat by the Village Planning Commission, Village
Engineer, and Richland County Board of Health (when wells and/or septic systems
are proposed).
         (e)   Acceptance of all areas of public use by the Village Council.
         (f)   Certification of the Richland County Auditor that there are no
delinquent taxes or delinquent special assessments against the land contained
in the plat.
      (14)   Protective covenants.
         (a)   If common property and/or improvements (private streets) are a
part of the plat, then the developer or persons seeking approval of the plat
shall, prior to the approval, provide and submit to the Village Planning
Commission copies of protective covenants, easements and documents to be
recorded, providing for the ownership, maintenance, repair and financing of the
common property and/or improvements. Reference to these protective covenants
shall be included in all deeds conveying the lots and lands described within
the subdivision plat.
         (b)   The maintenance and repair of common property and/or
improvements shall not be the responsibility of the public.
   (C)   Improvement plans and specifications.
      (1)   Drawings showing cross sections, profile, elevations, construction
details, and specifications for all required improvements shall be prepared by
a registered professional engineer. The improvement plans shall be prepared in
accordance with the design standards set forth in §§
154.050 through
154.053 and the public improvement standards, §
154.009, for the village, adopted by the Village Council.
      (2)   If it becomes necessary to modify improvements as approved due to
unforeseen circumstances, the subdivider shall inform the Village Engineer in
writing of the conditions requiring the modifications, and receive written
approval of said modification.
   (D)   Village Planning Commission action.
      (1)   The Village Planning Commission shall take action within 30 days
after submission for approval.
      (2)   If the same cannot be done within the 30-day period, the Village
Planning Commission may obtain from the applicant an agreement for additional
time.
      (3)   (a)   If the Village Planning Commission rejects the plat or needs
more information, then the application should be denied within the 30-day
period stating the inadequacies of the plat and advise that the applicant can
refile at a later date. See Appendix I at the end of this chapter.
         (b)   Approval of a subdivision plat may be given in one of the two
following ways:
            1.   Before construction of improvements. The Village Planning
Commission may give final approval before all required improvements are
installed, provided that a construction agreement and performance bond or other
guarantee or security acceptable to the Village Solicitor and the Village
Engineer and provided for the purpose of assuring installation of the
improvements is provided. The amount of the performance guarantees shall be
sufficient to cover the cost of all improvements based on approved detailed
engineering plans, an estimate approved by the Village Engineer. Upon receipt
of the Village Engineer's notification and determination that all the
requirements of these regulations have been met, the Village Planning
Commission shall give final approval and shall indicate the approval and date
on the tracing of the final Subdivision Plat.
            2.   After construction of improvements. After the subdivider has
obtained conditional approval as indicated in this section, and has installed
all required improvements to the satisfaction of the Village Engineer, the
Village Engineer shall certify that the improvements have been satisfactorily
installed in compliance with the approved plans and the construction agreement.
Upon receipt of the Village Engineer's notification and determination that all
the requirements of these regulations have been met, the Village Planning
Commission shall give final approval and shall indicate the approval and date
on the tracing of the final subdivision plat.
(Ord. 17-96, § 300.4, passed 4-15-1996)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 154.050 PURPOSE.
   The following provisions describe the design principles and standards which
a subdivider shall be required to follow in the layout of a subdivision. These
principles and standards shall be carried out in compliance with the following:
this resolution, other regulations of the state or county, and the
specifications for each of the various improvements as may be required by the
Village Engineer and the Richland County Health Department, according to the
nature of the improvements.
(Ord. 17-96, § 400, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 154.051 PHYSICAL CONSIDERATIONS; NATURAL PHYSICAL FEATURES.
   Major and minor subdivisions shall be planned to take advantage of the
topographic conditions of the land, to economize in the construction of public
facilities, and services, and to reduce the amount of grading and minimize the
destruction of trees, lakes, water courses, and topsoil.
(Ord. 17-96, § 400.1, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 154.052 MINOR SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Lots.
      (1)   Zoning conformance. The lot size, width, depth, and the minimum
building setback lines shall conform to the applicable existing zoning
regulations.
      (2)   Lot width. The width of the lot shall at no point be less than 60
feet.
      (3)   Lot depth. No lot depth shall exceed three and one-half times the
lot width. The width, for this purpose, shall be the width at the minimum
building setback line.
      (4)   Access to streets. The subdivision of land shall be such as to
provide each lot with frontage on a public street or private street as defined
in these regulations.
   (B)   Storm sewers. The subdivision shall comply with the village stormwater
management rules and regulations.
   (C)   Water supply and sanitary sewers. Where public or community water
supply and sanitary sewer facilities are not available, individual water wells
and sanitary sewer disposal facilities shall be provided for each lot in the
subdivision as required by the Mansfield-Richland County Health Department or
other agency having jurisdiction in accordance with the Ohio Revised Code.
(Ord. 17-96, § 400.2, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 154.053 MAJOR SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Required improvements.
      (1)   The improvements which are hereby required shall be designed,
furnished, and installed by the subdivider in accordance with the provisions of
these regulations and other regulations of the state and county. The required
improvements shall be installed before a subdivision plat is approved, or in
lieu thereof, financial guarantees for the installation shall be approved prior
to approval of a subdivision plat. The subdivider shall provide and install
within the proposed survey or subdivision, the minimum improvements set forth
in Table 1 which follows:
      (2)   Notes to schedule of required improvements on Table I:
         (a)   Grading required for lots, blocks, and streets;
         (b)   Pavement is required, specifications vary with classification of
street. Refer to the public improvement standards, §
154.009, for the village;
         (c)   The type of required improvement is subject to review and
approval of the Village Engineer.
         (d)   The type of required improvement is subject to review and
approval of the Village Planning Commission.
         (e)   See 154.053(H)(2) and (H)(3) below for exceptions.
         (f)   Closed storm drainage system shall be required with curb and
gutter.
      (3)   See Table 1 on following page.
Editor's Note: Table 1 is available in PDF, click HERE
Table 1: Schedule of Required Improvements
                    Drainage                                          Street
            Lot                                                       Improvement                                                                                                                                             Central
Type of     Area in                                                            Curb   Sidewalks Street Signs                              Street Lights                             Street Trees                              Sewer   Monuments                                 Other
Subdivision Sq. Ft. Grading Storm Drainage                            Pavement and                                                                                                                                            and
                                                                      Type     Gutter                                                                                                                                         Water

Single      20,000          [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
family      or      (a)     ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/ (b)      (f)    (c)       ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/ ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/ ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/ (e)     ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/
residential greater         IMAGES/0-0-0-33.jpg]                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-33.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-35.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-35.jpg]                              IMAGES/0-0-0-33.jpg]
Single      Less            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
family      than    (a)     ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/ (b)      (f)    (c)       ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/ ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/ ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/ (e)     ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/
residential 20,000          IMAGES/0-0-0-33.jpg]                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-33.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-35.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-35.jpg]                              IMAGES/0-0-0-33.jpg]
Multiple                    [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                          [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
family              (a)     ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/ (b)      (f)    (c)       ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/ ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/ (d)                                       (e)     ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/
residential                 IMAGES/0-0-0-33.jpg]                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-33.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-35.jpg]                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-33.jpg]
Business or                 [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                          [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
industrial          (a)     ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/ (b)      (f)    (c)       ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/ ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/ (d)                                       (e)     ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/
                            IMAGES/0-0-0-33.jpg]                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-33.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-35.jpg]                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-33.jpg]
Table 1: Schedule of Required Improvements
                    Drainage                                          Street
            Lot                                                       Improvement                                                                                                                                             Central
Type of     Area in                                                            Curb   Sidewalks Street Signs                              Street Lights                             Street Trees                              Sewer   Monuments                                 Other
Subdivision Sq. Ft. Grading Storm Drainage                            Pavement and                                                                                                                                            and
                                                                      Type     Gutter                                                                                                                                         Water

Single      20,000          [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
family      or      (a)     ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/ (b)      (f)    (c)       ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/ ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/ ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/ (e)     ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/
residential greater         IMAGES/0-0-0-33.jpg]                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-33.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-35.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-35.jpg]                              IMAGES/0-0-0-33.jpg]
Single      Less            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
family      than    (a)     ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/ (b)      (f)    (c)       ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/ ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/ ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/ (e)     ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/
residential 20,000          IMAGES/0-0-0-33.jpg]                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-33.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-35.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-35.jpg]                              IMAGES/0-0-0-33.jpg]
Multiple                    [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                          [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
family              (a)     ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/ (b)      (f)    (c)       ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/ ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/ (d)                                       (e)     ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/
residential                 IMAGES/0-0-0-33.jpg]                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-33.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-35.jpg]                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-33.jpg]
Business or                 [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                          [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
industrial          (a)     ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/ (b)      (f)    (c)       ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/ ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/ (d)                                       (e)     ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/
                            IMAGES/0-0-0-33.jpg]                                                IMAGES/0-0-0-33.jpg]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-35.jpg]                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-33.jpg]
Notes to table:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/IMAGES/0-0-0-33.jpg] Required
(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f) - See corresponding notes (a) through (f) in division (A)(2) above
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/IMAGES/0-0-0-35.jpg] Recommended
 
    (B)   Streets.
      (1)   Arrangement. The arrangement, character, extent, width, and
location of all streets shall conform to the land use and thoroughfare plan of
current adoption. The design of the proposed streets shall provide for both the
continuation of existing streets and access to adjacent unplatted lands so that
the entire area can be served with a coordinated street system.
      (2)   Street classifications.
         (a)   Major arterial thoroughfares shall be planned for the
continuation of movement of fast traffic entering or leaving the urban area, or
between points of heavy traffic generation and from one section of a community
to another. Major arterials should have few intersections with local streets
and collector thoroughfares. These thoroughfares should be spaced at least one
and one-half miles apart.
         (b)   Minor arterial thoroughfares should interconnect with and
augment the major arterial system. Minor arterials should provide for intra-
community trips and movement of traffic from heavy traffic generators to major
arterial thoroughfares. Minor arterials should contain few intersections with
local streets. These thoroughfares should be spaced at least three-fourths mile
apart.
         (c)   Collector thoroughfares shall provide a traffic route from local
streets to arterial thoroughfares. Collector streets normally contain a
relatively large number of intersections with major or minor arterial streets.
These streets should be spaced at least one-fourth mile apart.
         (d)   Local streets shall provide direct and full access to each lot
and shall be laid out so their use by through traffic will be discouraged.
         (e)   Service drives may be required along existing or proposed major
or minor arterial streets to provide access to lots along the thoroughfares.
Service drives shall be designed to provide a secondary means of access.
      (3)   Street right-of-way widths and grades. See Table 2 on following
page.
Table 2
               Minimum  Minimum  Maximum   Minimum   Maximum  Minimum  Minimum
Street         Right-   Pavement Degree of Radius of Percent  Percent  Corner
Classification of-Way   Width    Curvature Curvature of Grade of Grade Radii
                                                                       (d)
Major arterial 100 ft.  b        3 degrees 1,910 ft. 4%       0.6%     30 ft.
thoroughfare   a
Minor arterial 80 ft. a b        5 degrees 1,150 ft. 5%       0.6%     30 ft.
thoroughfare
Collector      60 ft. a 30 ft.   8 degrees 717 ft.   6%       0.5%     20 ft.
thoroughfare
Local street                     10
(commercial or 60 ft. a 30 ft.   degrees   575 ft.   7%       0.5%     20 ft.
industrial)
Local
residential    60 ft. a 24 ft.   10        575 ft.   7% c     0.5%     20 ft.
(multiple                        degrees
family)
Local
residential    60 ft. a 24 ft.   20        290 ft.   7% c     0.5%     20 ft.
streets and                      degrees
culs-de-sac
Private
streets        60 ft. a 20 ft.   20        290 ft.   7% c     0.5%     20 ft.
(estate                          degrees
development)
Table 2
               Minimum  Minimum  Maximum   Minimum   Maximum  Minimum  Minimum
Street         Right-   Pavement Degree of Radius of Percent  Percent  Corner
Classification of-Way   Width    Curvature Curvature of Grade of Grade Radii
                                                                       (d)
Major arterial 100 ft.  b        3 degrees 1,910 ft. 4%       0.6%     30 ft.
thoroughfare   a
Minor arterial 80 ft. a b        5 degrees 1,150 ft. 5%       0.6%     30 ft.
thoroughfare
Collector      60 ft. a 30 ft.   8 degrees 717 ft.   6%       0.5%     20 ft.
thoroughfare
Local street                     10
(commercial or 60 ft. a 30 ft.   degrees   575 ft.   7%       0.5%     20 ft.
industrial)
Local
residential    60 ft. a 24 ft.   10        575 ft.   7% c     0.5%     20 ft.
(multiple                        degrees
family)
Local
residential    60 ft. a 24 ft.   20        290 ft.   7% c     0.5%     20 ft.
streets and                      degrees
culs-de-sac
Private
streets        60 ft. a 20 ft.   20        290 ft.   7% c     0.5%     20 ft.
(estate                          degrees
development)
Notes to table:
a. When a boulevard-type street is proposed, the minimum right-of-way shall be
increased by an amount equal to the width of the proposed median.
b. Requirement will vary with design speed and capacity. To be determined by
the Village Engineer.
c. Maximum may be greater due to topography if in accord with the application
of standard engineering practice. To be approved by the Village Engineer.
d. Right-of-way line street.
 
      (4)   Half streets. Half Streets shall be prohibited.
      (5)   Dead end streets.
         (a)   Permanent dead end streets shall be designed with culs-de-sac
and shall not be longer than 800 feet and shall be provided at the closed end
with a turn-around having an outside pavement diameter of at least 100 feet,
and a street right-of-way line diameter of at least 120 feet.
         (b)   Temporary dead end streets which do not exceed 800 feet in
length or which are extended to the boundary of a subdivision to provide for
their proper continuance at the time as the adjacent land is subdivided shall
be terminated with a T-type turn-around within a 60-foot right-of-way or a
standard cul-de-sac. Portions of the cul-de-sac right-of-way in this case may
be temporary. The T-type turn-around shall extend the entire width of the
right-of-way and shall have a minimum width of 15 feet along the property line
with flared portions rounded by a minimum radius of 15 feet.
         (c)   If the street extends only one lot depth past a street
intersection, no turn around is required.
      (6)   Private streets.
         (a)   Private streets shall meet all requirements for public streets,
except as specified for private streets in an estate development.
         (b)   The Village Planning Commission may require certain streets
within a development to be public if it is determined that traffic connections
to adjacent plats or development are required for adequate circulation.
      (7)   Reserve strips. Reserve strips controlling access shall be
prohibited except where their control is definitely placed in the village under
conditions approved by the Village Planning Commission.
      (8)   Alignment.
         (a)   Horizontal.
            1.   Street jogs. Street jogs with a centerline offset of less than
150 feet shall not be permitted.
            2.   Intersections. Streets shall be laid out to intersect as
nearly as possible at right angles and no street shall intersect any other
street at an angle of less than 80 degrees. Whenever possible, four-way
intersections of local residential streets should be avoided, and T-type
intersections are to be encouraged. Multiple intersections involving junctions
of more than two streets shall be avoided.
            3.   Intersection approaches. Minimum site distances shall conform
to the Ohio Department of Transportation Location and Design Manual.
            4.   Reverse curves. Between reverse curves there shall be a
tangent at least 100 feet long on major and minor arterial and collector
thoroughfares.
         (b)   Vertical.
            1.   Grade at intersection: approaches to intersection shall be
reduced to a grade not exceeding 3% for a distance of at least 100 feet.
            2.   Maximum grade at intersections may be exceeded due to steep
topography in accordance with the application of standard engineering practice.
      (9)   Street names.
         1.   No street names shall be used which will duplicate or be confused
with the names of existing streets within the county. Street names shall be
subject to approval by the Village Planning Commission.
         2.   All new streets shall be named in the following manner:
 
General Direction Long Street Short Street **
North and south   Streets     Places
East and west     Avenues     Courts
Diagonal          Roads       Ways
Curving           Drives      Circles
** Less than 1,000 feet in length
 
         3.   Note: The use of the name “boulevard” may be used by new streets
having a median strip separating the opposing flow of traffic.
      (10)   Proposed boulevards. Whenever Boulevard streets are proposed, the
subdivider or developer shall submit to the Village Planning Commission a
written agreement for the maintenance of all median strips and the lawn areas
and plantings therein. Maintenance shall be the responsibility of the developer
or an association of homeowners whose lots abut onto the proposed boulevard.
   (C)   Easements.
      (1)   Utility easements. Electric and telephone lines shall be buried if
located at the front of lots. Easements centered on rear or side lot lines
shall be provided for utilities and shall be at least 12 feet wide. Utilities
may be buried at the side or rear of lots.
      (2)   Drainage way easements. Where a subdivision is traversed by a
drainage way, a storm water easement or drainage right-of-way, a public
easement conforming substantially with the lines of the drainage shall be
provided. The easement or right-of-way shall be 16 feet wide or of such further
width as necessary and shall generally follow rear and side lot lines.
   (D)   Blocks.
      (1)   Block lengths shall not exceed 1,800 feet or be less than 400 feet.
      (2)    Pedestrian walkways, with right-of-way not more than 12 feet wide,
may be required across blocks where the Village Planning Commission deems that
pedestrian access to schools, playgrounds, parks, open space, shopping centers,
and other community facilities are necessary.
   (E)   Lots.
      (1)   Zoning conformance. The lot size, width, depth, and the minimum
building setback lines shall conform to the existing zoning and Health
Department regulations.
      (2)   Corner lots. Corner lots shall have extra width to permit
appropriate building setback from and orientation to both streets
      (3)   Access to streets. The subdivision of land shall be such as to
provide each lot with frontage on a public street or private street as defined
in these regulations.
      (4)   Double frontage lots.
         (a)   Residential lots shall not be laid out so that they have
frontage on more than one street except:
            1.   Where lots are adjacent to the intersection of two streets; or
            2.   Where it is necessary to separate residential developments
from major arterial thoroughfares.
         (b)   Where double frontage lots are created adjacent to major or
minor arterial thoroughfares, a reserve strip 12 feet wide along the major
thoroughfare shall be deeded to the village. The plat shall state that there
shall be no right or access across the reserve strip. The Village Planing
Commission may require that a ten-foot wide planting screen may be provided
along the boundary of the reserve strip.
      (5)   Lot width. The width of the lot shall at no point be less than 60
feet.
      (6)   Lot depth. No lot depth shall exceed three and one-half times the
lot width. The width for this purpose shall be the width at the minimum
building setback line.
   (F)   Monuments and lot corner markers. Monuments shall be placed on all
block corners, angle points, and points of curves in streets, street
intersections, and lot corners. The monuments shall be of solid ferrous metal,
three-fourths inch in diameter and shall be at least 30 inches long.
   (G)   Public sites and open spaces. The subdivision design shall provide
land areas for public use as provided in this division (G) and conform to the
Commission's open space plan. Open space subdivision layout shall be encouraged
with ownership and maintenance by the home owners association. Natural features
such as scenic views, water bodies, and fine groves of trees shall be given due
consideration for their preservation.
      (1)   Public building sites.
         (a)   At the preliminary plan stage, the Village Planning Commission
shall notify governmental and public agencies within the area to be platted
that a subdivision is being proposed. The Village Planning Commission shall
designate a period of 21 days within which the agencies shall determine if land
within the subdivision is required for their use as a public building site and
to so advise the Village Planning Commission in writing of the proposed use and
the area required. If within the designated time such requirement is deemed to
exist, the subdivider shall be notified during the preliminary plan stage.
         (b)   If there is no response from an agency within the designated
time, then the preliminary plan stage shall continue without further
consideration of the sites.
         (c)   If an agency responds with a need for land within the designated
time, then the Village Planning Commission shall forthwith assist with
negotiations for the same between the subdivider and the agency in this regard
and sites shall be available to the requesting entity by one of the following
methods:
            1.   Statutory dedication without compensation to the subdivider.
            2.   Statutory dedication with reasonable compensation to the
subdivider;
            3.   Appropriation by the agency.
            4.   Reservation by appropriate legal instrument for acquisition of
a period of one year after the approval of the preliminary plan, or for the
additional time as may be mutually negotiated. The reservation shall provide
for the specific release of the land from these requirements reverting full
legal title to the subdivider, or his or her successors or assigns if the
agency has not obtained a contract to acquire the land or has not filed
appropriate proceedings within the one-year limitation.
            5.   Any other method arrived at by mutual agreement.
         (d)   Failure of the Village Planning Commission to notify an agency
under division (G)(1) above shall not create any rights in the body and shall
have the same effect as making no response after being notified and shall not
make defective the subsequent subdivision proceedings hereunder.
      (2)   Open space and parks.
         (a)   There shall be no requirements for a subdivider to provide parks
or other open space except as required or specified in applicable zoning
regulations or by the open space plan adopted by the Village Planning
Commission.
         (b)   When a governmental agency (city, village, county, or township)
having jurisdiction over the land proposed to be subdivided that is not
designated for open space or parks pursuant to the Village Planning Commission
open space plan or applicable zoning regulations desires land within the
subdivision for the use, then such government agency within the time designated
in the notice under division (G)(1)(a) above shall notify the subdivider
through the Village Planning Commission.
         (c)   The governmental agency desiring such land shall specify the
quantity, description, location and use (passive or active) of the land so
desired and designate the public entity that would be responsible for the
development and maintenance of the use and the expense thereof.
         (d)   If a governmental agency specified its desire, as set forth in
division (G)(1)(c)3. above, then the Village Planning Commission shall
forthwith assist with negotiations for the same between the subdivider and the
governmental agency and land shall be available by one of the following
methods:
            1.   Statutory dedication without compensation to the subdivider to
the governmental agency qualified to accept the same and to maintain and
develop the land.
            2.   Statutory dedication, with reasonable compensation to the
subdivider, to the governmental agency qualified to accept the same and to
maintain and develop the land.
            3.   Reservation by appropriate legal instrument for acquisition of
a defined area by the government agency having authority to accept, develop and
maintain the same for the specific use for a period of one year after the
approval of the preliminary plan. The reservation shall provide for the
specific release of the land from these requirements reverting legal title to
the subdivider, or his or her successors or assigns, if the governmental agency
so authorized has not obtained a contract to acquire the land or has not filed
appropriation proceedings within the one-year limitation.
            4.   Any other method arrived at by mutual agreement, including the
reservation or grant of land by private deed or covenants for the use of the
property owners within the proposed subdivision with provision being made for
the development and maintenance thereof.
            5.   The governmental agency may encourage open space subdivisions
wherein private property owners through the use of a home owners' association
will conserve and maintain open space and recreation areas for the private use
of property owners within the subdivision. For reference, see §
154.090.
            6.   Failure of the Village Planning Commission to notify a
governmental agency under division (G)(2) above shall not create any rights in
the agency and shall have the same effect as making no response after being
notified and shall not make defective the subsequent subdivision proceedings
hereunder.
         (e)   Any reservation of property for a period of one year referred to
above shall be null and void if the subdivision plat of which it is part does
not receive final approval or is withdrawn by the subdivider before final
approval. It is the intent herein not to create a burden on the land if it is
not to be subdivided. Any legal instrument creating such a reservation shall so
state.
   (H)   Utilities.
      (1)   Storm drainage.
         (a)   The design of the subdivision shall provide the necessary means
to assure complete drainage in and adjacent to the property to be developed or
subdivided. Generally, drainage structures and facilities shall be designed for
a ten year storm frequency. The subdivider or his or her engineer shall submit
all drainage calculations along with the improvement plans to the Village
Engineer.
         (b)   The design of the subdivision shall comply with the village
stormwater management rules and regulations.
         (c)   When necessary, outlet ditches or closed storm sewers of an
approved type and size shall be required as part of the construction. If there
are easements or rights-of-way to be obtained by the subdivider for
construction and future maintenance, these rights-of-way or easements shall be
shown on the final plat. Two copies of the easements shall be furnished to the
Village Engineer.
      (2)   Sanitary sewers.
         (a)   Sanitary facilities shall be designed and constructed by the
subdivider as required for the area in which the proposed subdivision is
located, for the proper disposal of wastes for each lot.
         (b)   If a subdivision can be reasonably served by the extension of an
existing public sanitary sewer as determined by the Village Engineer, the
subdivider shall provide a system of sanitary sewer mains and shall provide
lateral connections for each lot.
         (c)    If a subdivision cannot be reasonably served by the extension
of an existing public sanitary sewer as determined by the Village Engineer or
Ohio Environmental Protection Agency, then the Village Engineer or the Ohio
Environmental Protection Agency may permit the design and construction of an
independent sanitary treatment plant providing complete treatment and a house
connection of each lot. The temporary treatment plant shall be abandoned when
public truck sewers are installed in that area.
         (d)   If individual sanitary facilities must be installed they are to
be on lots of a size as required by the Richland County Health Department and/
or by the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency, whichever has jurisdiction,
providing such requirements are published statute, law or regulation duly
enacted.
         (e)   1.   Pre-treatment of all industrial waste must be as prescribed
by the village and will require approval by the village for discharge of the
effluent into a Village sanitary or storm sewer system.
            2.   If effluent from a waste water treatment plant is discharged
into any public water course, approval must be obtained from the Ohio
Department of Health and the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency.
      (3)   Water supply.
         (a)   A water system shall be designed and constructed by the
subdivider as required for the area in which the subdivision is located and a
water tap provided for each lot.
         (b)   Where public water supply is within reasonable distance, as
determined by the Village Engineer, the subdivider shall construct a system of
water mains and connect with the public water supply and provide a water tap
for each lot.
         (c)   If a subdivision cannot be reasonably served by the extension of
an existing public water supply, the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency may
permit the installation of a community supply to serve each lot. The sub-
divider must show reasonable proof that there is a dependable water source
available from which this supply can be drawn.
         (d)   Where public or community water supply and sanitary sewer
facilities are not available, individual water wells and sanitary disposal
facilities shall be provided for each lot in the subdivision if approved by the
Ohio Environmental Protection Agency and the Health Department.
         (e)   For major subdivision developments, public water and sanitary
sewer facilities shall be furnished by the subdivider for each lot in the
subdivision, if those facilities are approved by the Ohio Environmental
Protection Agency and the Mansfield-Richland County Health Department and the
Village Engineer.
   (I)   Extra size and off site improvements. When streets or utilities are
not available at the boundary of a proposed subdivision, thereby necessitating
off-site extensions or improvement of streets or utilities and when extra size
(greater in size than is required to serve the proposed subdivision) utility
lines and streets are required for the proper future growth of an area, the
Village Planning Commission may require as a condition precedent to approval of
a preliminary plan and subdivision plat, assurances that the off-site
extensions and extra size improvements will be provided in accordance with the
following:
      (1)   Utility extensions from the proposed subdivision shall be installed
and constructed in such a location, in such a manner and size as to make their
extension usable in accordance with governmental regulations for servicing
adjacent areas and with reference to drainage utilities, the adjacent area
shall include the downstream area of the particular drainage district and the
uphill drainage and extra size line as determined by reasonable engineering
standards.
      (2)   If the Village Planning Commission, in conjunction with the Village
Council, finds that off-site extensions require crossing undeveloped lands and
that a special assessment would not be warranted against the lands until some
future time, or if a governmental expenditure for such purpose is not then
warranted, and if this same condition exists on extra size facilities which
will later benefit and enhance other property, then the developer may be
required, as a condition to approval, to obtain all necessary easements or
rights-of-way. Improvements so constructed shall be dedicated and granted to
the public and not maintained under private ownership. All such improvements
shall be available for connections by developers of adjoining lands.
      (3)   (a)   To provide for reimbursement to the developer for costs of
the installation of off-site extensions and extra size facilities (the costs to
include construction costs, all engineering costs properly allocated thereto,
and all costs for legal services allocated thereto, and any other costs
necessary and proper in determining the entire cost of the improvement),
contractual arrangements shall be made between the Village Council and the
developer, approved by the Village Engineer, setting forth the total amount of
the reimbursement, together with a pro-rate usage reimbursement plan including
the nature and method of determining the amount of the reimbursement and the
time or times at which the same shall occur. The contractual arrangements shall
be accomplished and completed prior to the improvements being started. It is
the intent to secure reimbursement to the developer at such time or times as
connections to the off-site improvements are made and extra size facilities are
used by developers of adjoining or benefiting lands.
         (b)   As future development occurs on adjoining or benefiting lands,
the original developer shall be reimbursed in accordance with the contractual
arrangements referred to above and each successive developer shall exhibit to
the Village Planning Commission a receipt showing reimbursement prior to final
subdivision approval relating to such adjoining or benefiting lands.
      (4)   The Village Council may construct and pay for the off-site
extensions and extra size facilities and assess the costs to the owners
benefitted and require a deposit from the developer. The Village Council may
establish a rotary fund to pay for such development costs and not collect the
assessments on the intervening land until it is developed.
   (J)   Flood plain.
      (1)   If any portion of the land within a proposed subdivision may be
subject to inundation or flood hazard by storm water, and/or if any portion is
within an area designated as flood prone, the fact and that portion shall be
clearly indicated on the subdivision plat, provided the requirements are
established by published statute, law or regulation duly enacted.
      (2)   Land subject to flood shall not be platted for residential
occupancy or for other such use which may increase danger to health, life or
property or which may aggravate the flood hazard.
(Ord. 17-96, § 400.3, passed 4-15-1996)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.065 ADMINISTRATION.
   These regulations shall be administered by the following state, county or
village agencies or their designated representatives:
   (A)   The Village Planning Commission, through their Chairperson, shall act
as the coordinating agency, responsible for receiving, processing and reviewing
all minor (except those which meet all requirements of §§
154.036(A)(1) through (A)(3) and major subdivisions as to conformity with
zoning and other regulations which affect the division of land, and for
approving the design layout of the preliminary plan and final plat.
   (B)   The Ohio Environmental Protection Agency, the Village Engineer and the
Richland County Health Department, whichever has jurisdiction shall be
responsible for reviewing and approving the type of water system, home sewerage
disposal system, and sanitary sewer system designed to serve minor and major
subdivisions.
   (C)   The Village Engineer shall be responsible for reviewing, inspecting,
and approving the improvement plans and installation of streets and other
utility systems. The Village Engineer shall also be responsible for insuring
that the improvement specifications set forth in the public improvement
standards, §
154.009, for the village are met as a subdivision is developed in order to
assure both soundness of layout and economy of construction and maintenance.
   (D)   The Village Council shall be responsible for managing all affairs
required in connection with the dedication of public rights-of-way and other
public sites designated on a minor or major subdivision.
(Ord. 17-96, § 500, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 154.066 RECORDING OF PLAT.
   No plat of any subdivision shall be recorded in the office of the County
Recorder or have any validity until it has been approved in the manner
prescribed herein.
(Ord. 17-96, § 500.1, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 154.067 SALE OF LAND WITHIN SUBDIVISIONS.
   No owner or agent of the owner of any land located within a subdivision
shall transfer or sell any land by reference to, exhibition of, or by the use
of a plat of the subdivision before such plat has been approved and recorded in
the manner prescribed in these regulations. The description of such lot or
parcel by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other documents
used in the process of selling or transferring shall not exempt the transaction
from the application of these regulations.
(Ord. 17-96, § 500.2, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 154.068 REVISION OF PLAT AFTER APPROVAL.
   No changes, erasures, modifications, or revisions shall be made in any plat
of a subdivision after approval has been given by and an endorsement is made in
writing on a plat, unless the plat is first resubmitted and the changes
approved by those public bodies in authority.
(Ord. 17-96, § 500.3, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 154.069 FILING. PLAN REVIEW AND INSPECTION FEES.
   (A)   Filing fees. Make payable to village.
      (1)   Major subdivision. At the time of submitting the application for
final plat approval, the subdivider shall pay a filing fee of $50.
      (2)   Planned unit development. At the time of submitting for final plat
approval, the subdivider shall pay a filing fee of $100.
   (B)   Plan review and inspection fees. 
      (1)   Plans, quantities, and an itemized cost estimate prepared by a
professional engineer shall be submitted to the Village Engineer for review and
approval for all street, storm sewer, outlet drainage, sanitary sewer and water
line improvements. A certified check in the amount of 10% of the approved
construction cost estimates or $2,000, whichever is larger, shall be deposited
with the village to pay the costs of plan review and field inspection of said
construction to assure its conformance with the approved plans. The check shall
be made out to the Village Fiscal Officer. A record shall be kept of the actual
costs incurred by the Village Engineer for the plan review and inspection and
shall be charged against the amount deposited and any remaining money shall be
returned to the developer. If the cost for plan review and inspection exceeds
10% of the approved cost estimate, the village shall notify the developer, who
shall be responsible for covering the additional costs of plan review and
inspection.
      (2)   The Village Engineer must be notified 48 hours before work
commences on any improvements.
(Ord. 17-96, § 500.4, passed 4-15-1996; Ord. 15-2019, passed 7-2-2019)
§ 154.070 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Village Planning Commission may grant variances from the strict
application of these regulations in specific cases where unusual topographical
or other exceptional conditions require the modification and where such strict
application would result in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship that
would unreasonably deprive the owner of the reasonable use of the land involved
or place unreasonable restrictions or requirements upon the owner's intended
subdivision when the same would not be detrimental to the public interest and
would not impair the intent of these regulations, the desirable development of
the neighborhood or community, the comprehensive plan or the applicable zoning
ordinances; provided, however, that a mere financial hardship shall not be
sufficient to establish a hardship hereunder for the granting of a variance.
   (B)   In granting any variance, the Village Planning Commission shall
prescribe any conditions that it deems to be necessary or desirable as will, in
its sole judgment, secure substantially the objective of the standards or
requirements so varied or modified.
   (C)   No variance in the strict application of any provision of these
regulations shall be granted, however, except upon written application and
hearing following a resolution specifically setting forth the finding of
special circumstances giving rise to the variance, together with any conditions
found necessary or desirable by the Village Planning Commission. Further, no
such variance shall be granted unless the Village Planning Commission finds:
      (1)   That there are unusual topographical or other exceptional
conditions fully described in the findings applying to the proposed subdivision
for which the variance is sought.
      (2)   That for the reasons set forth in the findings, the granting of the
variance is necessary to avoid practical difficulties or unnecessary hardship
that would unreasonably deprive the owner of the reasonable use of the land or
place unreasonable restrictions or requirements upon the owner's intended
subdivision, that the variance as granted by the Village Planning Commission is
the minimum variance that will accomplish the purpose.
      (3)   That the granting of the variance will be in harmony with and not
impair the general intent and purpose of these regulations and not be
detrimental to the public interest or contrary to the desirable development of
the neighborhood or community.
      (4)   The Village Planning Commission shall consider all factors
including, but not limited to, the physical condition of the land, the
complexity of and number of parcels involved in the proposed subdivision;
effect on adjacent property, neighborhood, and community; the likelihood of
involvement with future subdivision or requests therefor, the presence or
absence of public or private streets; the necessity of easements of access and
the description, size, maintenance, and control thereof including whether or
not such easement of access can be used for the benefit of any other land,
acceptability of conditions to avoid future conflict with these regulations;
the preparation of such survey, drawings, and descriptions as may be required
by the Village Planning Commission; and the unusual and nonrepetitive nature of
the condition sought to be remedied through the requested variance.
   (D)   Requests for variance will be submitted in writing to the Village
Planning Commission on forms prescribed for that purpose. Each application
shall refer to the provisions of these regulations to which a variance is
sought and the grounds upon which it should be granted. The allowance or
disallowance of the variance request shall be by resolution in the manner set
forth above. The Village Planning Commission may require that reference to such
resolution be contained on any deed or instrument of conveyance arising out of
the transaction for which the variance was sought.
(Ord. 17-96, § 500.6, passed 4-15-1996)
Cross-reference:
   For the application for a subdivision variance form, see Appendix I at the
end of this chapter
§ 154.071 APPEAL.
   Any person who believes he or she has been aggrieved by these regulations or
the action of the Village Planning Commission, has all the rights of appeal as
set forth in R.C. Chapter 711 or any applicable section of the Ohio Revised
Code.
(Ord. 17-96, § 500.7, passed 4-15-1996)
REQUIREMENTS FOR OPEN SPACE AND PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
§ 154.085 GENERAL.
   Planned developments are separate entities with a distinct character which
is intended to be in harmony with surrounding developments. Projects which are
designed solely to circumvent these regulations or other applicable zoning
resolutions shall not be approved. The project must clearly demonstrate that
natural features are being preserved, that amenities are being provided which
would enhance the liveability of the project and that such attributes of the
project could not be achieved with strict adherence to these regulations. A
minimum of 50 acres is suggested for a planned unit development to allow
sufficient flexibility and imaginative design.
(Ord. 17-96, § 600, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 154.086 STANDARDS.
   A major element of the planned development is privately owned or publicly
owned common property within the development. These developments usually
contain such features as an internal park network abutting home sites,
recreational facilities, and preservation of natural amenities. A home owners'
association should be established to provide for the maintenance of all
properties held in common.
(Ord. 17-96, § 600.1, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 154.087 CONFORMITY TO EXISTING STREETS AND THOROUGHFARE PLAN.
   Whenever a planned development abuts or contains an existing or proposed
major thoroughfare, the standards, as contained in these regulations, shall be
applicable. If a planned development abuts or contains an existing minor
residential street, it must meet the requirements of these regulations.
(Ord. 17-96, § 600.2, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 154.088 PUBLIC STREETS.
   The Village Planning Commission may require certain streets within planning
developments to be public if it determines that the project density
necessitated the use of public streets and that traffic connections to adjacent
plats or developments are required for adequate circulation.
(Ord. 17-96, § 600.3, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 154.089 STAGING OF RESIDENTIAL PLANNED DEVELOPMENT.
   Each stage of a planned development must be so designated so as to stand
independently of future related stages in the event of all of the common open
spaces and public and recreational facilities which are shown on the final
development plan must proceed at the same rate as the construction of dwelling
units. The Village Planning Commission shall not approve the final development
plan for any stage of the planned development unless the average of the
allowable dwelling units per stage, up to and including the stage which is to
be approved, does not exceed by more than 10% the average number of dwelling
units per stage which is allowable for the entire planned development.
(Ord. 17-96, § 600.4, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 154.090 COMMON OPEN SPACE GUARANTEE.
   (A)   Common open space, privately owned shall require provisions for
maintenance and the financing of such maintenance to insure its continuity,
conservation, maintenance and preservation in order to prevent its diversion
and deterioration in the manner hereinafter set forth. Publicly owned common
open space shall be the responsibility of the governmental entity approving as
accepting same on the plat.
   (B)   If privately owned common property is a part of the plan, then the
developer shall establish an open space development plan which shall include
the plats, agreements, protective covenants, easements and documents to be
recorded providing for the ownership, maintenance and financing of the
maintenance for the common open space, together with the documents establishing
a home owners association for the maintenance of all properties held in common.
   (C)   In the event that the owner established to own, develop and maintain
the common open space, or any successor, shall at any time after the
establishment of the open space development, fail to maintain the common open
space in reasonable order and condition in accordance with the plan, or permit
it to deteriorate so as to constitute a public nuisance, then the village
having jurisdiction over the same may serve written notice upon the owner or
upon the residence of the open space development area setting forth the manner
in which the owner has failed to maintain the common open space in reasonable
condition or has permitted a public nuisance to develop. The notice shall
include a demand that the deficiencies be cured within 30 days thereof and
shall state the date and place of hearing thereon before the village to be held
within 15 days after the notice. At the hearing the village may modify the
terms of the original notice as to the deficiencies and may give an extension
of time within which they shall be cured. If the deficiencies set forth in the
original notice or in the modifications hereof are not cured within the 30 days
or any extension thereof, the village, in order to prevent further
deterioration or to abate the public nuisance, may enter upon the common open
space and maintain the same until the owner established for the purpose resumes
its responsibility. The entry maintenance and abatement upon the common open
space shall not vest in the village any rights to use the common open space for
any other purpose, nor shall the entry constitute a dedication.
   (D)   To provide for the costs of the maintenance and abatement by the
village, the developer or the owner established to own the common open space
shall simultaneously with the execution of the unit plan grant to the village a
conservation easement vesting in the village all of the rights necessary to
carry out the term of this section, as well as all of the rights of the
developer or the owner of the open space to collect dues or assessments from
the property owners within the development, which dues and assessments, or a
reasonable substitution therefore, for the maintenance of the common open space
shall be an obligation upon the property owners by virtue of such conservation
easement or recorded protective covenants, as well as any articles of
incorporation or bylaws of any owners association to hold title to the common
open space.
(Ord. 17-96, § 600.5, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 154.091 STAGING OF NONRESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION.
   If a planned development contains nonresidential uses, these uses may be
constructed first, but only if the village planning commission finds, and
records its finding on the final development plan, that the nonresidential uses
are consistent with the comprehensive plan for the community even though the
residential area of the planning development is not built at not completed.
(Ord. 17-96, § 600.6, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 154.092 CONDOMINIUMS.
   R.C. Chapter 5311 provides for the recording of ownership of condominiums.
Condominium ownership does not excuse compliance with these regulations
whenever appropriate.
(Ord. 17-96, § 600.7, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   The following penalties shall apply to the violations of these regulations:
   (A)   Whoever violates any rule or regulation adopted by the Village Council
for the purpose of setting standards and requiring and securing the
construction of improvements within a subdivision, or fails to comply with any
order pursuant thereto, is creating a public nuisance and the creation thereof
may be enjoined and maintenance thereof may be abated by action at suit of the
village or any citizen thereof. Whoever violates these regulations shall
forfeit and pay not less than $100 nor more than $1,000.
   (B)   A county recorder who records a plat contrary to the provisions of
these regulations shall forfeit and pay not less than $100, nor more than $500
to be recovered with costs in a civil action by the Village Solicitor in the
name and for the use of the village.
   (C)   Whoever, being the owner or agent of the owner of any land within a
municipal corporation, transfers any lot, parcel or tract of the land from or
in accordance with a plat of a subdivision before the plat has been recorded in
the office of the County Recorder, shall forfeit and pay the sum of not less
than $100, nor more than $500 for each lot parcel, or tract of land so sold.
The description of such lot, parcel, or tract by metes and bounds in the deed
of transfer shall not serve to exempt the seller from the forfeiture provided
in this section.
   (D)   Any person who disposes of, offers for sale or lease for a time
exceeding five years any lot or any part of a lot in a subdivision before
provisions of these regulations are complied with, shall forfeit and pay the
sum of not less than $100, nor more than $500 for each lot or part of a lot so
sold, offered for sale or leased, to be recovered with costs in a civil action,
in the name of the village for the use of the village.
(Ord. 17-96, § 500.5, passed 4-15-1996)
APPENDIX A: JURISDICTION OF SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-37.jpg]
 
APPENDIX B: DEFINITIONS AND EXAMPLES OF SUBDIVISIONS; FLOW CHART
 
APPENDIX B1: DEFINITIONS
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Regulates the division of land, its planning and development into what is known
as a subdivision.
§
154.036 Minor Subdivision
§
154.037 Major Subdivision
However, land divided under certain specifications or conditions is NOT
classified as a subdivision and therefore, the regulations of §§
154.036 AND
154.037 do not apply.
DIVISION OF LAND THAT IS A SUBDIVISION
1.   When a parcel of land shown as a unit or contiguous units on last
preceding tax role is divided into two or more parcels, sites or lots, any one
of which is less than five acres for the purpose, now or in the future, for
transfer of ownership.
2.   Improvement of one or more parcels for residential and commercial or
industrial structures involving the allocation of land for opening, widening or
extending streets, except private streets for industrial structures.
3.   Division or allocation of land as open spaces, for owners occupants or
tenants common use, or as easements for public sewer, water, storm drainage or
other public facilities.
DIVISION OF LAND NOT A SUBDIVISION
1.   Some divisions of land are not subdivisions.
2.   If a division of land is not a subdivision, then the regulations do not
apply and no plat is required.
3.   The following divisions are not subdivisions:
   a.   Division of a parcel into two or more parcels, all of which are five
acres or more, not involving new streets (public or private) or easements of
access.
   b.   Sale or exchange of parcels between adjoining land owners, if no
additional building sites are created.
   c.   Transfer of an existing piece of land as a whole that has been
previously recorded by metes and bounds description.
   d.   Normally the transfer of a lot that is recorded as a lot in a major
subdivision. The transfer of a part of such a lot will not be a subdivision
unless it is less than five acres and involves new streets (public or private)
or easements of access or unless it creates additional building sites and is
not a sale or exchange between adjoining land owners.
The land to be divided is a subdivision-then the owners will have to proceed
with formal platting requirements, §
154.037, major subdivision, unless the division of land meets the minor
subdivision category §
154.036 (R.C. § 711.131)
If the minor subdivision criteria are met – no plat is required and the
conveyance (deed) shall be stamped “approved - no plat required” a drawing may
be required. The regulations provided a simplified procedure.
If the criteria for a minor subdivision are not met – then the major
subdivision requirements must be followed – unless a hardship exists to qualify
for a variance.
   WHAT IS A MINOR SUBDIVISION?
1.   It is a division of land that:
   a.   Must be a division of a parcel along an existing street: and
   b.   Must not involve the opening, widening or extension of any street or
road; and
   c.   Must involve no more than five lots after the original tract has been
completely subdivided; and
   d.   Must not be contrary to applicable platting, subdividing, or zoning
regulations.
   R.C. § 711.131 regulations set forth other requirements to be met by a minor
subdivision.
2.   Keep these definitions in mind:
   a.   The full definition of a minor subdivision (above)
   b.   Original tract:
      (1)   A contiguous quantity of land held by one person – or in common
ownership which has not been platted by the existing owner – this means:
Based on OAG   (a)   A tract can be original to one person and not to another
Opinion 71-083   (b)   “Original” does not mean initial source
            (c)   Permits subdivision through successive ownership
3.   Completely subdivided:
   a.   When a tract is divided into as many lots as that subdivider intends
for the tract.
   b.   A specific subdivider may later decide to increase the number of lots
in a subdivision – but to do so – and assuming there are more than five lots as
a result, it would be necessary to replat the original tract.
   c.   It is possible for a tract to be “completely subdivided” and then be
further subdivided by a party who purchases or takes title to a parcel in a
subdivision large enough to be divided.
4.   The Ohio Attorney General has concluded:
   a.   Tract – a contiguous quantity of land undivided by lot lines.
   b.   Original – contemplates a tract which has not been divided under its
present ownership.
   c.   Original Tract – a contiguous quantity of land held by one person or in
common, which has not been platted by the existing owner.
   d.   The phrase “involving no more than five lots after the original tract
has been completely subdivided” applies only to the necessity for replatting to
accomplish changes in an already subdivided tract.
APPENDIX B2:    EXAMPLES
A.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-39.jpg]
 
1.   Mr. A Owns 20A and sells 5 acres to Mr. B
   (not a subdivision)
B.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-41.jpg]
 
1.   A owns 20A and sells 4 acres to B.
(minor subdivision)
2.   B divides the 4 acres into 5 lots.
Subdivision – Yes
Minor Subdivision – Yes
B is the original tract – not the 20 A
C.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-43.jpg]
 
1.   A owns 121 acres and sells as follows:
(a)   1963 - 14 acres
(b)   1964- 19 acres
(c)   1966 - 28 acres
(d)   1969 - 44 acres
   (none of these are subdivisions) each owner
2.   A kept 15 acres and in 1972 wanted to sell off one acre from the 15 acre
parcel.
   (a)   A Subdivision – Yes
   (b)   Is it a minor subdivision? Does it involve no more than 5 lots after
the “original tract” has been “completely subdivided?” What is “original
tract”, 15 acres or 121?
   (c)   This would be a minor subdivision and 15 acres is the original tract.
D.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-45.jpg]
 
1.   A owns 120A and sells 30A to B.
(not a subdivision)
2.   B divides the 30A into 4 lots (not a subdivision unless one or more is
less than 5A – if so, then a minor subdivision)
3.   B sells Lot No. 1 and keeps Lots 2, 3 and 4.
4.   B then divides Lot 2, 3 and 4 each in half creating 6 new lots of 3.75
acres each (This is a major subdivision)
E.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-47.jpg]
 
1.   A owns 5A and divides into 5 parcels the largest is 2-1/2A.
(a minor subdivision)
2.   A sells 2-1/2A parcel to B.
3.   B divides then 2-1/2A into 5-1/2A parcels... is this a minor or major
subdivision? Minor. What is original tract? The 2-1/2A, not the 5A.
APPENDIX B3: SUBDIVISION FLOW CHART
This chart may be used as a test to determine whether the division of land is a
subdivision, and, if so, whether it is a major or minor subdivision.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-49.jpg]
 
APPENDIX C: AFFIDAVIT OF COMPLIANCE
 
EDITOR'S NOTE: Appendix is available in PDF, click HERE
 
STATE OF OHIO:
             ss:         AFFIDAVIT OF COMPLIANCE
COUNTY OF RICHLAND:
VILLAGE OF BELLVILLE:
                                                                  being first
duly sworn on oath (or affirm under penalty of perjury) deposes and says that:
   1.   Affiant is the owner of land proposed to be subdivided in accordance
with the survey attached hereto, marked “Exhibit A.”
   2.   The proposed subdivision is of land located along an existing public
street and does not involve the opening, widening, or extension of any street
or road.
   3.   The parcel being divided will be divided into no more than five (5)
parcels when the original tract is completely subdivided.
   4.   The proposed subdivision is not contrary to applicable platting,
subdividing or zoning regulations and conforms in all respects to the Village
of Bellville, Ohio, Subdivsion Rules and Regulations and the provisions thereof
applicable to “minor subdivisions.”
                                                                               
   Sworn to before me and subscribed in my presence, this            day of
                                               , 20             .
                                                                               
   Notary Public
APPENDIX D: APPLICATION FOR TENTATIVE APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAN
 
EDITOR'S NOTE: Appendix is available in PDF, click HERE
VILLAGE OF BELLVILLE PLANNING COMMISSION BELLVILLE, OHIO
Date                                          Application No.
                           
1.   Name of Applicant
                                                                                                           
Address
                                                                                                                           
Phone                                                                          
2.   Name of Surveyor or Engineer
                                                                                           
Address
                                                                                                                           
Phone
                                                                                                                              
3.   Name of Subdivision
                                                                                                         
4.   Locational Description:   Section                            Township
                              
Range                              Other                                      
(In addition, please attach copy of legal description)
5.   Proposed Use
                                                                                                                  
6.   Present Zoning District
                                                                                                     
7.   Proposed Zoning Changes
                                                                                                 
8.   Number of Lots                                     Area of Parcel
                                                   
9.   Do you propose deed restrictions?   Yes              No             
(If “yes,” please attach a copy.)
10.   What type of sewage disposal do you propose?
                                                           
If an “on lot” type of sewage disposal is proposed, include a letter from the
County Board of Health approving a specific type of sewage disposal.
11.   List all proposed improvements and utilities and state your intention to
install or post a guarantee prior to actual installation.
 
Improvement Installation Guarantee
a.
b.
c.
d.
e.
 
12.   List other materials submitted with this application.
 
Item   No.
a.
b.
c.
d.
e.
f.
 
                                                                                                                                      
Applicant                              Surveyor or Engineer
 
   (For Official Use)
Date Received
                                                                                                                        
Date of Meeting of the Village Planning Commission
                                                                  
                                                                                                                                              
Action by Commission
                                                                                                            
If plan rejected, reason(s) for rejection
                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                  
Date                                                                Chairperson
                                                    
APPENDIX E: TYPICAL PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION PLAT
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-57.jpg]
 
APPENDIX F: APPLICATION FOR FINAL PLAT APPROVAL
 
EDITOR'S NOTE: Appendix is available in PDF, click HERE
VILLAGE OF BELLVILLE PLANNING COMMISSION BELLVILLE, OHIO
Date                               Application No.
                                         
1.   Name of Applicant
                                                                                                           
Address
                                                                                                                           
Phone
                                                                                     
2.   Name of Surveyor or Engineer
                                                                                          
Address
                                                                                                                           
Phone
                                                                                                                              
3.   Name of Subdivision
                                                                                                         
4.   Date Preliminary Plan Approved
                                                                                        
5.   Was a zoning change requested?                       Yes
                          No
6.   If yes, the plat may not be approved until it conforms with the applicable
zoning. Include a certification of zoning compliance if a change was requested.
7.   Have all required improvements been installed?                        Yes
                           No
If no, include detailed estimates of cost and a statement relative to the
method of improvement guarantee. All estimates must be approved by the
responsible village official.
8.   Do you propose deed restrictions?                     Yes
                         No
(If yes, please attach a final copy.)
9.   List other materials submitted with this application.
 
Item   No.
a.
b.
c.
d.
e.
f.
 
   For Official Use
Date Received
                                                                                                                       
Plat Fee $                                                           Inspection
Fee $                                    
Date of Meeting of the Village Planning Commission
                                                                
                                                                                                                                            
Action by Commission
                                                                                                           
If plat rejected, reason(s) for rejection
                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                             
Date
                                                                                                                                
Chairperson
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-----------------------------------------------
Date of Village Council Meeting
                                                                                               
Action by Village Council
                                                                                                        
Date
                                                                                                                                
Mayor
APPENDIX G: TYPICAL FINAL SUBDIVISION PLAT
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-62.jpg]
 
APPENDIX H: REQUIRED STATEMENTS AND SIGNATURES TO BE AFFIXED ON THE SUBDIVISION
PLAN
 
EDITOR'S NOTE: Appendix is available in PDF, click HERE
 
SECTION I.   Required Statements to be Affixed on the Subdivision
Plat:
   OWNER'S ACCEPTANCE AND DEDICATION
   I/We, the undersigned owner(s) of the land(s) shown on the within plat,
hereby acknowledge the making of said plat to be my/our free act and deed, and
do hereby accept said plat and dedicate the streets and other public areas as
shown to public use forever. In witness whereof, I/we have set my/our hands and
seals this            day of              , 20                  .
Owner(s)                           Witness(es)
                                                  
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                
STATE OF OHIO, COUNTY OF RICHLAND, VILLAGE OF BELLVILLE: S.S.
   Before me a notary public is and for said county and state, personally
appeared the above owner(s) who then and there acknowledge the making and
signing of the within plat to be his/her/their free act and deed and for the
uses and purposes shown thereon in testimony, whereof I have hereunto set my
hand and official seal this               day of           , 20            ;
                                                                           
   Notary Public
   Richland County, Ohio
My Commission Expires                                          
SECTION II.   Required Signatures:
Certificate of Surveyor
   I hereby certify this plat represents a survey made by me, that all notes,
dimensions and geodetic details are correct, that the survey closes with an
error of one foot in 25,000 feet or less and that the monuments shown exist or
shall be set as shown.
Date                                                                                                                                       
Name
Surveyor No.                                                     
Village Engineer Approval
   I hereby approve the above plat and dedication. No acceptance of the
dedicated streets upon the public road system is meant or implied.
Date                                                                                                                                       
Name
Village Engineer
Richland County District Board of Health
(Applicable for Wells and Septic Systems)
   I hereby approve the within plat and dedication.
Date                                                                                                                                        
Name
Richland County District Board of Health
Village of Bellville Planning Commission
   I hereby certify that the within plat and dedication were duly approved by
the Village of Bellville Planning Commission for Richland County, Ohio, at its
regular meeting held on the      day
of           , 20            .
Date
                                                                                                                                
Name
Chairperson
Village Council
   I hereby certify that the within plat and dedication were duly approved by
the Bellville Village Council at its regular meeting on the               day
of              , 20               .
Date
                                                                                                                                
                  Mayor
County Auditor
   I hereby certify that there are no delinquent taxes or delinquent special
assessments against
herein described and these platted lands were transferred on the            day
of                    , 20      .
Date
                                                                                                                                
Richland County Auditor
County Recorder
   Filed for record this            day of              , 20           , at
                 (time).
Recorded this                      day of                   , 20              
in Plat Volume          , Page            .
Date
                                                                                                                                
Richland County Recorder
Performance Guarantees – Amount
   I hereby certify that a performance guarantee in the amount of
                            for the construction of required improvements for
the land contained in this plat have been provided and approved as to amount.
Date
                                                                                                                                
Village Engineer
Performance Guarantees – Form
   I hereby certify that a performance guarantee in the amount of
                            for the construction of required improvements for
the land contained in this plat have been provided and approved as to amount.
Date
                                                                                                                                
Village Solicitor
APPENDIX I: EXTENSION AGREEMENT FOR APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL OF SUBDIVISION PLAT
 
EDITOR'S NOTE: Appendix is available in PDF, click HERE
BY VILLAGE OF BELLVILLE PLANNING COMMISSION
   Pursuant to §
154.039(D) and R.C. § 711.10, the time for approval or disapproval of the Plat
of:
                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                              
submitted by
                                                                                                                           
is hereby extended to                                      , 20              .
   No plat shall be recorded until it is approved by the Village of Bellville
Planning Commission and such approval is endorsed in writing on the Plat. The
approval of the Village Planning Commission or the refusal to approve shall be
endorsed on the Plat within thirty (30) days after the submission of the Plat
for approval, or within such further time as the applying party may agree to.
   This agreement constitutes the agreement of the applying party to an
extension of time beyond the thirty (30) day period for approval or
disapproval.
                                                                            
Applying Party
Dated:
                                                                         
Date Plat submitted to Village Planning Commission
                                                                   
Extended Date:
                                                                                                                       
APPENDIX J: APPLICATION FOR SUBDIVISION VARIANCE
 
EDITOR'S NOTE: Appendix is available in PDF, click HERE
VILLAGE OF BELLVILLE PLANNING COMMISSION BELLVILLE, OHIO
Date                               Application No.
                                         
Name
                                                                                                                         
Address
                                                                                                                     
Phone                                                            
1.   Locational Description:
                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                             
                                                               
2.   Natures of Variance requested: Describe generally the nature of variance.
                       
                                                                                                                                            
                                                               
3.   Justification of Variance: On a separate sheet, please attach a statement
relative to why the variance from requirements of the subdivision regulations
is requested. Include such items as:
   a.   exceptional topographical or other conditions peculiar to this
particular parcel of land;
   b.   why a literal interpretation of the regulations would deprive the
applicant of rights enjoyed by other property owners;
   c.   that the peculiar conditions do not result from previous actions of the
applicant;
   d.   that the requested variance is the minimum variance that will allow a
reasonable division of the land;
   e.   a sketch of the area showing the location and characteristics of the
requested variance
I certify that all information contained in this application and its
supplements is true and correct.
                                                                           
   Signature
 
   For Official Use
Date of Meeting of Village Planning Commission
                                                                       
                                                                                                                                              
Action by Commission
                                                                                                             
Date                                                   Chairperson
                                                            
APPENDIX K: EXAMPLES IN DETERMINING LOT DEPTH
A   =   The distance between mid-points of straight lines connecting the
foremost points of the side lot Lines in front and the rearmost points of the
side lot Lines in the rear.
B   =   The perpendicular distance between a straight line connecting the
foremost points of the side lot lines in front and a parallel line passing
through the furthest most point of the lot.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ea076ddd72a93060d0750a9b70b21ea47d3e98e2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-73.jpg]
 
CHAPTER 155: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Title
   
155.002   Short title
   
155.003   Authority and purpose
   
155.004   Relationship to other legislation
   
155.005   Construction
   
155.006   Separability
   
155.007   Applicability
   
155.008   Establishment of districts
   
155.009   Official zoning district map
   
155.010   Interpretation of zoning district boundaries
   
155.011   Zoning of annexed areas
   
155.012   Zoning of vacated areas
   
155.013   Exclusionary nature of chapter
   
155.014   Substitute zoning map
   
155.015   Definitions
Architectural District
   
155.030   Purpose
   
155.031   District boundaries
   
155.032   Application and notice
   
155.033   Board of Architectural Review
   
155.034   Standards for review: certificate of appropriateness
   
155.035   Preservation of property upon demolition of a structure
   
155.036   Repair or maintenance exception
Agricultural Fair District
   
155.050   Purpose
   
155.051   Use
   
155.052   Nonconforming uses
   
155.053   Excluded Agricultural Fair District uses
CD Conservation District
   
155.065   Purpose
   
155.066   Uses
   
155.067   Conditionally permitted uses
   
155.068   Access
   
155.069   Lighting
   
155.070   Loudspeakers
   
155.071   Minimum lot size
   
155.072   Lot width
   
155.073   Maximum building height
   
155.074   Setbacks
   
155.075   Greenbelt requirements
   
155.076   Flood plain
   
155.077   Sign regulations
   
155.078   Parking regulations
   
155.079   General requirements
R-1 Residential District
   
155.090   Purpose
   
155.091   Use
   
155.092   Conditionally permitted uses
   
155.093   Access
   
155.094   Fencing/screening
   
155.095   Lighting
   
155.096   Loudspeakers
   
155.097   Minimum lot size
   
155.098   Maximum building size
   
155.099   Maximum building height
   
155.100   Setbacks
   
155.101   Minimum floor area
   
155.102   Garage
   
155.103   Greenbelt requirements
   
155.104   Front yard variance
   
155.105   Sign regulations
   
155.106   Parking regulations
   
155.107   General regulations
   
155.108   Excluded residential uses
R-2 Residential District
   
155.120   Purpose
   
155.121   Use
   
155.122   Conditionally permitted uses
   
155.123   Access
   
155.124   Greenbelt requirements
   
155.125   Fencing/screening
   
155.126   Lighting
   
155.127   Loudspeakers
   
155.128   Minimum lot size
   
155.129   Multi-family/townhouse unit area
   
155.130   Maximum building size
   
155.131   Maximum building height
   
155.132   Setbacks
   
155.133   Sign regulations
   
155.134   Parking regulations
   
155.135   General regulations
   
155.136   Excluded residential uses
PR Planned Residence District
   
155.150   PR Planned Residence District
B-1 Neighborhood Business District
   
155.160   Purpose
   
155.161   Use
   
155.162   Conditionally permitted uses
   
155.163   Excluded uses
   
155.164   Fencing/screening requirements
   
155.165   Lighting
   
155.166   Loudspeakers
   
155.167   Greenbelt requirements
   
155.168   Access
   
155.169   Maximum building size
   
155.170   Maximum building heights
   
155.171   Setback requirements
   
155.172   Sign regulations
   
155.173   Parking regulations
   
155.174   General requirements
B-2 General Business District
   
155.185   Purpose
   
155.186   Use
   
155.187   Conditionally permitted uses
   
155.188   Excluded uses
   
155.189   Attached one-family dwelling units; conditions
   
155.190   Gasoline service stations
   
155.191   Fencing/screening requirement
   
155.192   Lighting
   
155.193   Loudspeakers
   
155.194   Greenbelt requirements
   
155.195   Maximum building height
   
155.196   Setback requirements
   
155.197   Sign regulations
   
155.198   Parking regulations
   
155.199   General requirements
   
155.200   Sidewalk sales, carnivals, flea markets
   
155.201   Sexually oriented businesses
B-3 Highway Service Business District
   
155.215   Purpose
   
155.216   Permitted uses
   
155.217   Conditionally permitted uses
   
155.218   Gasoline stations
   
155.219   Lighting
   
155.220   Loudspeakers
   
155.221   Greenbelt requirements
   
155.222   Maximum building height
   
155.223   Setback requirements
   
155.224   Sign regulations
   
155.225   Parking regulations
   
155.226   General requirements
   
155.227   Driveways
   
155.228   Traffic impact studies
   
155.229   Excluded uses
Planned Commercial and Office District (PC)
   
155.240   Planned Commercial and Office District (PC)
I-1 Industrial District
   
155.250   Purpose
   
155.251   Use
   
155.252   Excluded uses
   
155.253   Fencing/screening
   
155.254   Greenbelt requirements
   
155.255   Lighting
   
155.256   Loudspeakers
   
155.257   Minimum lot size
   
155.258   Minimum lot width
   
155.259   Maximum lot width
   
155.260   Setback
   
155.261   Outdoor storage
   
155.262   Sign regulation
   
155.263   Parking regulations
   
155.264   General regulations
   
155.265   New and used motor vehicle sales
   
155.266   Automobile repair
U-1 Utility District
   
155.275   U-1 Utility District
Conditions Applicable to All Districts
   
155.285   General conditions applicable to all districts
   
155.286   Lot width requirements
   
155.287   Frontage of public street
   
155.288   Corner lots
   
155.289   One principal building
   
155.290   Calculation of open space
   
155.291   Drainage channels
   
155.292   Water and sewer connections
   
155.293   Temporary buildings
   
155.294   Accessory buildings
   
155.295   Home sale
   
155.296   Firewood, woodpiles, scrap wood, etc
   
155.297   Public and private access requirements
   
155.298   Corner clearance
   
155.299   Accessways
   
155.300   Swimming pool fences and setbacks
   
155.301   Trailers used for storage
   
155.302   House trailer as temporary dwelling
   
155.303   Parabolic/dish type antennae
   
155.304   Obscuring greenbelt
   
155.305   Grass and weed control
   
155.306   Fence/screen requirements
   
155.307   Variances from §
155.306
   
155.308   Outdoor wood furnaces / outdoor wood boilers / outdoor wood-fired
hydronic heaters
Commercial Site Plan Review Requirements
   
155.309   Development plan review
Parking
   
155.320   Parking requirements; purpose
   
155.321   Permits conditioned on adequate parking
   
155.322   Use of parking spaces
   
155.323   Front yard parking
   
155.324   Conversion of parking area
   
155.325   Surface of parking area
   
155.326   Size of parking spaces
   
155.327   Minimum required parking spaces
   
155.328   Location of parking spaces
   
155.329   Joint parking areas
   
155.330   Use of setback areas for parking
   
155.331   Variance from parking requirement
   
155.332   Access to parking spaces
   
155.333   Uses not specified
Sign Regulations
   
155.345   Purpose
   
155.346   Exceptions
   
155.347   Permit required
   
155.348   Permit form
   
155.349   Permitted in Residential Districts
   
155.350   Permitted in Business and Industrial Districts
   
155.351   Size limitations of signs
   
155.352   Pole or pylon signs
   
155.353   Lighting
   
155.354   Sign erectors
   
155.355   Public right-of-way
   
155.356   Compliance with state law
   
155.357   Temporary signs
   
155.358   Variances
   
155.359   Variance procedure
   
155.360   Prohibited locations
   
155.361   Removal of unsafe signs
   
155.362   Signs excepted from regulation
   
155.363   Shopping center signs
   
155.364   Structure
   
155.365   Abandoned signs
   
155.366   Sign installation
   
155.367   Maintenance and inspection
   
155.368   Definitions
   
155.370   Off-premises signs
Food Trucks and Outdoor Vendors
   
155.375   Food trucks
Non-Conforming Uses
   
155.380   Incompatibility; intent
   
155.381   Single non-conforming lots of record
   
155.382   Non-conforming uses of land
   
155.383   Non-conforming structures
   
155.384   Non-conforming uses of structures and land in combination
   
155.385   Repairs and maintenance
   
155.386   Single dwelling unit exception
   
155.387   Accessory use exception
Planning Commission
   
155.400   Creation, appointments and vacancies
   
155.401   Organization and functions
   
155.402   Conduct of meetings
   
155.403   Powers and duties
   
155.404   Hearings before Planning Commission
   
155.405   Notice of hearing on variance
   
155.406   Zoning Inspector; creation and appointment
   
155.407   Zoning Inspector; powers and duties
   
155.408   Variances
   
155.409   Additional conditions
   
155.410   Application for zoning permit
   
155.411   Application for conditional permit
   
155.412   Owner's consent
   
155.413   Violations of conditions
Amendments
   
155.425   Amendments
   
155.426   Amendment procedure; Planning Commission
   
155.427   Public hearing
   
155.428   Notice to property owners
   
155.429   Council action
Violations and Enforcement
   
155.440   Violations, penalties and enforcement
   
155.441   Notice of violation
   
155.442   Additional remedies
   
155.443   Authority of other injured property owner
   
155.444   Parties
   
155.445   Expiration of a permit
   
155.446   Fees
 
   
155.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Applications for zoning permit
   
Appendix B: Fence permit application
   
Appendix C: Application for a conditional zoning permit
   
Appendix D: Application for a sign permit
   
Appendix E: Application for appeal
   
Appendix F: Application for a variance
   
Appendix G: Variance zoning permit
   
Appendix H: Application for amendment to the zoning ordinance
   
Appendix I: Certificate for appropriateness
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 TITLE.
   An ordinance imposing comprehensive regulations upon the use of land within
the village by dividing the village in to various use districts, imposing
regulations as to the use of land, the location, height and bulk of buildings
and other structures, establishing off-street parking requirements, creating a
Village Planning Commission and granting to it certain powers, creating the
position of Village Zoning Inspector and granting that person certain powers,
providing for zoning permits, conditional zoning permits and variances,
providing for a system to amend the ordinance codified herein, providing for
penalties for violation of the ordinance codified herein and a procedure to
enforce its provisions, and adopting an official zoning district map.
(Ord. 87-27, § 100, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.002 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited in all proceedings as the
“Zoning Ordinance of the Village of Bellville, Ohio”.
(Ord. 87-27, § 101, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.003 AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority vested in this village by
Articles XVIII, Section 3, of the Ohio Constitution and is intended to exercise
the broadest authority permitted by law over the use of land within this
village. It is the finding of this Council that the public health, safety,
morals and welfare are directly and significantly affected by the use of land
and it is the intention of this Council to exercise its authority to the
fullest to preserve and protect not only the public health, safety, morals and
welfare, but also the value of land and the aesthetics of this community while
at the same time recognizing and protecting the rights of individuals to use
their land as they deem best.
(Ord. 87-27, § 102, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.004 RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER LEGISLATION.
   This chapter is intended to be comprehensive legislation with respect to the
use of land within this village. It is intended to repeal and supersede all
prior zoning ordinances only, and shall not be deemed to repeal the village
subdivision regulations, Chapter 154 of this code as amended, the code or
ordinances of the village, or any ordinances, resolutions or rules of the
village dealing with water, sanitary sewers, streets or storm sewers as are
presently in effect. In the event of an inconsistency between this chapter and
any existing ordinance, resolution or rule, this chapter shall prevail.
(Ord. 87-27, § 103, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.005 CONSTRUCTION.
   The following rules shall be applied in the construction and application of
this chapter:
   (A)   Compliance with the Constitution of the United States and with the
State of Ohio was intended;
   (B)   Compliance with state statutes insofar as they are mandatory was
intended;
   (C)   A just and reasonable result was intended;
   (D)   A result feasible of execution was intended;
   (E)   The title of all sections of this chapter are intended for
identification only and in the event of a conflict between the title and the
text of section, the text shall control;
   (F)   The word “shall” is mandatory, the word “may” is permissive;
   (G)   In the event a word or phrase is not defined in this chapter, it shall
be presumed to be used in its ordinary dictionary definition;
   (H)   In the event of a conflict between a general provision and a specific
provision, the specific provision shall control;
   (I)   Words used in the singular shall include the plural and words used in
the plural shall include the singular.
   (J)   Words used in the present shall include the future;
   (K)   The conjunction “and” means all connected items shall apply; the
conjunction “or” means any of the connected items may apply singly or in
combination; the phrase “either or” means that the connected items shall apply
singly, but not in combination.
(Ord. 87-27, § 104, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.006 SEPARABILITY.
   If any section of this chapter is declared invalid, unenforceable or
unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction with respect to the
application of that section to a particular parcel of land or a particular
owner of that land, the invalidity, unenforceability or unconstitutionality
shall not be deemed to affect the validity, enforceability or constitutionality
of that provision as to any other parcel of land or any other owner of land. If
any section of this chapter is declared invalid, unenforceable or
unconstitutional, per se, by a court of competent jurisdiction, the declaration
shall not affect any other section of this chapter or the chapter as a whole.
The balance of this chapter shall remain in full force and effect and the
section declared invalid, unenforceable or unconstitutional shall be deemed to
have never been enacted.
(Ord. 87-27, § 105, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.007 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter applies to all land and to every structure lying within the
corporate limits of the village as those limits now exist or may hereinafter be
extended by annexation except land owned by this village. Land owned by the
United States of America, the State of Ohio, Richland County, Jefferson
Township, the Clear Fork Local School District or any other political
subdivision or any department or agency of any of them shall be subject to this
chapter except to the extent expressly exempted by law.
(Ord. 87-27, § 106, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.008 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   For the purpose of determining the regulations of land and structures as
imposed by this chapter, the corporate limits of the village are hereby divided
into the following use districts:
   (A)   AD Architectural District;
   (B)   CD Conservation District;
   (C)   R-1 Residential District;
   (D)   R-2 Residential District;
   (E)   B-1 Neighborhood Business District;
   (F)   B-2 General Business District;
   (G)   B-3 Highway Service Business District;
   (H)   I-1 Industrial District;
   (I)   PR Planned Residential;
   (J)   PC Planned Commercial;
   (K)   U-1 Utility District.
(Ord. 87-27, § 107, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 6-2014, passed 2-4-2014)
§ 155.009 OFFICIAL ZONING DISTRICT MAP.
   The location of each of the zoning districts provided for in this chapter
are shown upon the official zoning district map which is incorporated by
reference and made a part of this chapter. The official zoning district map is
identified by a certificate signed by the Mayor, Fiscal Officer and Zoning
Inspector in the following form:
THIS IS THE OFFICIAL ZONING DISTRICT MAP OF THE VILLAGE OF BELLVILLE, RICHLAND
COUNTY, OHIO DULY ADOPTED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE VILLAGE IN ORDINANCE 87-27 ON
JULY 7, 1987.
(Ord. 87-27, § 108, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 8-95, passed 4-3-1995; Ord. 18-96,
passed 4-15-1996)
Cross-reference:
   Substitute zoning map, see §
155.014
§ 155.010 INTERPRETATION OF ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the
aforesaid districts as shown on the official zoning districts map, the
following rules shall apply:
   (A)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the center lines of
streets, highways, or alleys shall be construed to follow the center lines.
   (B)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed as following the lot lines.
   (C)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the corporation
boundary line shall be construed as following the corporation boundary line.
   (D)   Boundaries indicated as following railroad tracks shall be construed
to be midway between the main tracks.
   (E)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the center line of
streams, rivers or other bodies of water shall be construed to follow the
center lines.
   (F)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated in divisions (A) through (E) above shall be so construed. Distances
not specifically indicated on the official zoning districts map shall be
determined by the use of a scale shown on the map.
(Ord. 87-27, § 109, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.011 ZONING OF ANNEXED AREAS.
   Any area annexed to the village shall immediately, upon the annexation, be
automatically classified according to one of the district classifications
listed in §
155.008 for the annexed area as adopted by Village Council. The Planning
Commission shall recommend appropriate zoning for the area within one month
from the date the matter is first referred to the Village Planning Commission
by Village Council.
(Ord. 87-27, §110, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.012 ZONING OF VACATED AREAS.
   Wherever any street, alley or other public way is vacated by action of
Village Council and in a manner authorized by law, the zoning district
adjoining each side of such street, alley, or public way shall be automatically
extended to the center line of such vacation and all areas included in the
vacation shall then be subject to the same use, area and height regulations of
the extended district.
(Ord. 87-27, § 111, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.013 EXCLUSIONARY NATURE OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall be deemed to be exclusionary in nature and any use of
land not specifically allowed by this chapter in a district or in any district
shall be deemed to be a use which was intentionally excluded from the district
or all districts.
(Ord. 87-27, § 112, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.014 SUBSTITUTE ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The Village Zoning Districts Map prepared by the Richland County
Regional Planning Commission (RCRPC) using the geographic information system
shall be and is adopted as the official Zoning Districts Map from the date of
this section and shall replace and be the official substitute for the current
official Zoning Districts Map dated July 7, 1987, with subsequent amendments.
   (B)   Commencing from the approval of this section, the Mayor, Fiscal
Officer, and Zoning Inspector shall sign in accordance with §
155.009, designating that map as the official Zoning Districts Map.
   (C)   The original 1987 map shall be kept and maintained by the RCRPC,
except that no future amendments to the Zoning Map shall be added thereto.
   (D)   The original and official substitute map shall be filed with,
maintained by, and continually updated by the RCRPC. Other copies shall be
maintained with the Zoning Inspector and another with the Council.
(Ord. 56-04, passed 11-1-2004)
§ 155.015 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDINGS. A building located on property under common ownership
with the principle building which is secondary in importance to the main
building, including but not limited to detached garages, storage buildings,
barns, shelters and decorative structures.
   ACCESSORY USE. Any activities which are incidental, subordinate and
customarily carried on in addition to the primary use of the premises. In
residential districts this shall include activities which are in the nature of
a hobby or recreation and not carried on with the intent to make a profit for
the land occupant. It shall also include activities related to the occupant's
employment off premises that are occasionally carried on in the premises. The
parking of any commercial tractor, commercial truck or semi-trailer in any
residential or business district shall not be considered an ACCESSORY USE.
Those activities shall not be deemed a home occupation. ACCESSORY USE does not
include satellite television reception equipment, electricity producing
windmills or amateur radio antennae. ACCESSORY USES shall also include:
      (1)   Off-street loading and parking facilities and the storage of goods
used, produced, or offered for sale which shall be accessory uses in business,
warehouse or industrial districts only and subject to all regulations of the
district where located.
      (2)   Garage or other casual sales or personal property shall be
considered an accessory use so long as they are limited to two times a year and
for no longer than three days each time. The advertising restrictions contained
in this section shall not apply to those sales. See §
155.295.
      (3)   The storage of licensed motor vehicles or the parking of not more
than one trailer, recreational vehicle, bus or boat owned by residents of the
premises only. Storage of any such items for non-residents of the premises
whether or not a fee is charged, shall not be deemed as accessory use. All such
items shall be stored no closer to the street than the minimum front yard
setback requirements of the district.
      (4)   Accessory use shall include the keeping of dogs (family, hunting),
cats, or other domesticated pets, but shall not allow the keeping of exotic or
dangerous animals such as, but not limited to, lions, tigers, leopards,
panthers, cougars, bobcats, bears, wolves, foxes, apes, gorillas, poisonous or
constrictor snakes, crocodiles, alligators or pit bull dogs.
      (5)   The sale of fruits or vegetables grown on the premises where sold.
      (6)   Any activity which is the subject of any advertising including, but
not limited to newspaper, magazine, radio, television, poster, billboard,
handbill, direct mailing, year book, telephone directory or other publications
shall not be deemed to be an accessory use.
      (7)   No zoning permit shall be required to engage in an accessory use
listed above.
   AGRICULTURAL FAIR. A fair conducted and operated by an independent
agricultural society in accordance with R.C. Chapter 1711 for a period of time
not to exceed seven consecutive days per each calendar year.
   AGRICULTURE. The use of land for farming purposes including dairying,
pasturage, agriculture, floriculture, horticulture, viticulture, animal and
poultry husbandry. Any processing of agriculture products shall be limited to
that incidental, subordinate and customarily carried on at the agriculture
stage of production but the processing of agriculture products beyond this
point shall not be deemed to be an agriculture use.
   ALLEY. Is a public right-of-way less than 21 feet in width usually affords a
secondary means of access to abutting property and not intended for general
traffic circulation.
   ALTERATION. Any change, addition or rearrangement in construction or type of
occupancy, or change in the structural parts of a building such as walls,
windows, partitions, columns, girders, or the moving from one location or
position to another.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms in a multi-family dwelling designed and
intended to be occupied as a residence by a single family.
      (1)   APARTMENT – STUDIO.  An apartment consisting of one principal room
along with a kitchen and bathroom.
      (2)   APARTMENT – ONE-BEDROOM. An apartment consisting of two principal
rooms along with a kitchen and bathroom.
      (3)   APARTMENT – TWO-BEDROOM. An apartment consisting of three principal
rooms along with a kitchen and bathroom.
      (4)   APARTMENT – THREE OR MORE BEDROOMS. An apartment consisting of four
or more principal rooms along with a kitchen and bathroom.
   ARTERIAL THOROUGHFARES. Church Street, Main Street, State Route 97.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a building which is partially below and partially
above ground level, and so located that the vertical distance from the grade to
the floor below is greater than the vertical distance from the grade to the
ceiling. If the ground adjacent to the building is not entirely level, the
ground level shall be computed by determining the average elevation of the
ground for each face of the building, and taking the average of the total
averages.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A dwelling where meals or lodging and meals are provided for
compensation to two or more persons.
   BUILDING. Any structure designed, built or occupied by human beings for any
purpose which is permanently affixed to the land and has one or more floors and
a roof. When a structure is separated by a fire wall, each such separated
portion of the structure shall be deemed a separate building. A building shall
not include such structures as billboards, fences, radio towers, or structures
such as water towers, tanks, grain elevators or similar structures with
interior spaces not ordinarily accessible for human habitation or commercial
activities.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the established grade
to the highest point of the roof surface for flat roofs; to the deck line of a
mansard roof; and to the average height between eaves and the ridge line of a
gable, hip, or gambrel roof. Where a building is located on sloping terrain or
the side of a hill, the height may be measured from the average elevation of
the finished grade at the building wall.
   BUILDING LINE. A line defining the minimum front, side or rear yard
requirements.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. The building housing the principal activity performed
on a lot.
   BUSINESS OR TRADE SCHOOLS. Privately owned instructional institutions which
teach specialized skills designed to enhance employment opportunities.
   CHURCH, SYNAGOGUES or TEMPLE. A building or group of buildings controlled by
a religious body organized to sustain public worship where persons regularly
assemble primarily for religious worship.
   COLLECTOR THOROUGHFARE. Hines Street.
   COMMERCIAL TRACTOR. Any motor vehicle having motive power designed or used
for drawing other motor vehicles, or designed or used for drawing another motor
vehicle while carrying a portion of such other motor vehicle or its load, or
both.
   COMMERCIAL TRUCK. Any motor vehicle designed by the manufacturer to carry a
load exceeding three tons.
   CONVALESCENT HOME. A residential facility which provides therapy and
rehabilitative services to persons recovering from illness or injury.
   DAY CARE CENTER. A facility licensed by the State of Ohio that houses and
cares for children unaccompanied by their parents or guardians during daylight
hours.
   DEVELOPMENT. Is the construction of a new building or other structure on a
lot, relocation of an existing building on another lot, or the use of open land
for a new use.
   DRIVE-IN. A business establishment so developed that its retail or service
character is dependent on providing a driveway approach and parking spaces for
motor vehicles so as to serve patrons while in the motor vehicle rather than
within a building or structure.
   DRIVE THRU/CARRYOUT. A business or establishment so developed that its
retail or service character is dependent on providing a driveway approach and
the temporary stopping of motor vehicle inside a building so as to serve
patrons in the motor vehicle.
   DRIVEWAY. An area of a lot intended to be used by motor vehicles to travel
over the lot to or from a public street.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof, designed for occupancy for
residential purposes and having cooking and sanitary facilities.
   DWELLING UNIT. A building designed or used as the living quarters for one or
more families. “Dwelling,” “single-family dwelling,” “two-family dwelling,” or
“multiple-family dwelling” shall not be deemed to include motel, hotel, or
rooming house. A DWELLING may include a permanently sited manufactured home
provided it meets all of the following requirements:
      (1)   The manufactured home is affixed to a permanent foundation and
connected to storm sewer, sanitary sewer and the village water system.
      (2)   The manufactured home, excluding any addition, shall have a width
of at least 22 feet at one point and a length of at least 22 feet at one point.
The total living area of the manufactured home, excluding garages, porches, or
attachments, must be at least equal to or greater than any minimum dwelling
size applicable within the applicable zoning district.
      (3)   The manufactured home shall have a minimum 3:12 residential roof
pitch, conventional residential siding, and a six-inch minimum eave overhang,
including appropriate guttering.
      (4)   The manufactured home was manufactured after January 1, 1995.
      (5)   (a)   The structure is not located in a manufactured home park.
         (b)   A permanently sited manufactured home shall not be considered a
manufactured home for the purposes of the zoning chapter.
   ERECTED. Built, constructed, altered, moved upon, reconstructed, or any
physical operations on the premises including excavation, fill, drainage, and
the like.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration, or maintenance
by public utilities or municipal departments, or commissions, of underground or
overhead gas, electrical, steam, or water transmission or distribution systems,
collection, communications, supply or disposal systems, including poles, wires,
mains, drains, sewer and water pipes, conduit, cables, fire alarm boxes,
traffic signals, hydrants and other similar equipment and accessories in
connection therewith, but not including buildings for the furnishing of
adequate service by the public utilities or municipal departments of
commissions, or for the public health or safety or general welfare.
   EXCAVATION. Any breaking of ground except agriculture, gardening or ground
care.
   FAMILY. One or more persons living together as a single housekeeping unit
and related by blood, marriage or adoption.
   FENCE. A structure designed or intended to enclose or screen.
   FIREWOOD, WOODSTACKS, etc. Any wood, woodstack, or other combustible
material which is intended to be used for burning purposes in any fireplace,
stove, boiler, furnace or similar apparatus.
   FLOOR AREA – MINIMUM. For the purpose of computing the minimum allowable
floor area per dwelling unit, the sum of the horizontal areas of each store of
the building shall be measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls or
from the centerline of walls separating two buildings. The floor area
measurement is exclusive of areas devoted to basements, unfinished attics,
attached garages, breezeways, and enclosed or unenclosed porches.
   FLOOR AREA – USABLE or OPEN TO THE PUBLIC. Is that area used for or intended
to be used for the sale of merchandise or services, or for use to serve
patrons, clients, or customers. Measurement of USABLE FLOOR AREA shall be the
sum of the horizontal areas of the several floors of the buildings measured
from the interior faces of the exterior walls. The floor area which is used or
intended to be used principally for the storage or processing of merchandise,
hallways, or for utilities or sanitary facilities, shall be excluded.
   FRATERNAL, SOCIAL, SERVICE or VETERANS ORGANIZATIONS. A private club
organized around a common interest or goal which is jointly supported, meets
periodically and providing recreational activities and/or meals for members and
guests.
   FRATERNITY or SORORITY HOUSE. A residential facility occupied by a number of
persons unrelated by blood, marriage or adoption who maintain a common bond of
purpose or interest whether or not formally expressed.
   GARAGE. An accessory building or portion of a main building designed and
intended primarily for the storage of vehicles or boats owned or used by the
occupants of the building, but may also be used incidentally for the storage of
other personal property.
   GARAGE, SERVICE REPAIR. A place where the following services may be carried
out: general repair, engine rebuilding, sale of engine fuels, rebuilding or
reconditioning of motor vehicles, collision service, such as body, frame, or
fender straightening and repair; overall painting and undercoating of
automobiles.
   GROUND LEVEL. The elevation established for the purpose of regulating the
number of stores and the height of a building. The GROUND LEVEL shall be the
level of the ground adjacent to the walls of the building if finished ground is
level. If the ground is not entirely level, the GROUND LEVEL shall be
determined by computing the average elevation of the ground for each face of
the building, and taking the average of the total averages.
   HOME OCCUPATION. A HOME OCCUPATION shall be allowed as a conditionally
permitted use in any Residential District provided it meets the following
criteria:
      (1)   No person other than members of the family residing on the premises
shall be engaged in the occupation;
      (2)   The use of the dwelling unit for the home occupation shall be
clearly incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants, and not more than 25% of the floor area of the dwelling unit shall
be used in the conduct of the home occupation; in addition any attached garage
may also be used provided the use does not preclude the storage therein of
motor vehicles for which it was designed;
      (3)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the building
or premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of the home occupation;
      (4)   No home occupation shall be conducted in any accessory building;
      (5)   No additional traffic shall be generated by the home occupation in
greater volumes than would normally be expected for that residential
neighborhood; and
      (6)   No equipment or process shall be used in the home occupation which
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors or electrical interference
detectable to the normal senses off the lot, if the occupation is conducted in
a single-family residence, or outside the dwelling unit if conducted in other
than a single-family residence. In the case of electrical interference, no
equipment or process shall be used which creates visual or audible interference
in any radio or television receivers off the premises, or causes fluctuations
in line voltage off the premises.
      (7)   No signs will be permitted.
   HOUSE TRAILER. A building unit or assembly of closed construction that is
fabricated in an off-site facility, is more than 35 body feet in length or,
when erected on site, is 320 square feet or more, is built on a permanent
chassis foundation, is transportable in one or more sections, and does not
qualify as a manufactured home as defined in division R.C. § 3781.06(C)(4) or
as an industrialized unit as defined in R.C. § 3781.06(C)(3).
   HOTEL or MOTEL. Every establishment kept, used to held out to the public to
offer sleeping accommodations to transient guests for compensation.
   INDUSTRIALIZED UNIT.  INDUSTRIALIZED UNIT means a building unit or assembly
of closed construction fabricated in an off-site facility that is substantially
self-sufficient as a unit or as part of a greater structure and that requires
transportation to the site or intended use. INDUSTRIALIZED UNIT includes units
installed on the site as independent units, as part of a group of units, or
incorporated with standard construction methods to form a completed structural
entity. An INDUSTRIALIZED UNIT does not include a manufactured home or mobile
home as defined herein.
   JUNK. Scrap metals and wood of all types, bones, rags, used bottles or cans
or paper packaging, old or used machinery, tools, equipment, appliances, motor
vehicles or parts thereof, used construction materials and any and all
manufactured goods which are so worn, deteriorated or obsolete so as to make
them unusable in their present condition, but which may be subject to salvage
or remanufacture. The definition of JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE shall have the same
meaning as SALVAGE MOTOR VEHICLE as provided by R.C. § 4738.01(B) and shall
apply herein.
   JUNKYARD. Any premises where junk is bought, sold, exchanged, baled, packed,
disassembled, stored or handled.
   KENNEL, COMMERCIAL. Any lot or premises on which three or more dogs, cats or
other household pets are either permanently or temporarily boarded. KENNEL
shall also include any lot or premises where household pets are bred and sold.
   LOADING SPACE. Is an off-street space or berth outside the street right-of-
way line on the same lot with a building or group of buildings, for the
temporary parking of a vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or
materials.
   LOCAL STREETS.  All other public streets in the village not specified as
arterial thoroughfares or collector streets.
   LOT. A parcel or parcels of land under common ownership occupied or intended
to be occupied by one or more buildings and the accessory buildings together
with the setback areas as are required by the chapter. A LOT may or may not be
specifically designated as a separate parcel by the county auditor.
      (1)   LOT AREA. The total horizontal area within the lot lines of the
lot.
      (2)   LOT, CORNER. A lot at the point of intersection of and abutting on
two or more intersecting streets.
      (3)   LOT DEPTH. The horizontal distance between the street right- of-way
line and rear lot lines measured along the median between the side lot lines.
Where the right-of-way depth is not established it shall be assumed to be 60
feet.
      (4)   LOT INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
      (5)   LOT LINES. The lines defining the limits of a lot as described
below:
         (a)   FRONT LOT LINE. In the case of an interior lot, is that line
separating the lot from the street. In the case of a corner lot, or double
frontage lot, is that line separating said lot from either street.
         (b)   SIDE LOT LINE.  Any lot line other than the front or rear lot
line.
         (c)   REAR LOT LINE. The lot line opposite the front lot line. In the
case of a lot pointed at the rear, the rear lot line shall be an imaginary line
parallel to the front lot line, not less than ten feet long lying farthest from
the front lot line and wholly within the lot.
      (6)   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance measured between the side lot
lines, and along the minimum building setback line.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.  A building unit or assembly of closed construction that
is fabricated in an off-site facility and constructed in conformance with the
federal construction and safety standards established by the Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development pursuant to the Manufactured Housing Construction
and Safety Standards Act of 1974, and that has a permanent label or tag affixed
to it certifying compliance with all applicable federal construction and safety
standards.
   MASTER PLAN. The comprehensive plan including graphic and written proposals
indicating the general location for streets, parks, schools, public buildings
and private land use development of the village, including any part of the plan
or changes thereto.
   MERCHANDISE. All tangible personal property offered for sale, rental, or
lease.
   MINIMUM BUILDING SETBACK LINE. An imaginary line across a property parallel
to the public street on which the property is located at a point equal to the
minimum front yard setback requirement of that district.
   MINIMUM LIVING FLOOR AREA. For the purposes of computing the minimum
allowable floor area in a residential dwelling unit, the sum of the horizontal
areas of each story of the building shall be measured from the exterior faces
of the exterior walls or from the center line of walls separating two
buildings. The floor area measurement is exclusive of areas devoted to
basements, unfinished attics, attached garages, breezeways, and enclosed and
unenclosed porches.
   NIGHTCLUB. A tavern which either provides live entertainment or permits
dancing by patrons.
   NON-CONFORMING BUILDING. A building lawfully existing at the time of the
enactment of the ordinance codified herein and which does not conform to the
area and height regulations of the district in which it is located.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. A use lawfully existing at the time of the enactment of
the ordinance codified herein, and which does not conform to the use provisions
of the district in which it is located.
   NURSERY. A space, building or structure, or combination thereof, for the
storage of live trees, shrubs, or plants offered for retail sale on the
premises including products used for gardening or landscaping. The definition
of NURSERY within the meaning of this chapter does not include any space,
building or structure used for the sale of fruits, vegetables, or Christmas
trees.
   NURSERY, DAY. A building, structure, place, or location, or any combination
thereof, and other physical property therewith included, that shall be used for
the purpose of housing and caring for children unaccompanied by parents during
daylight hours.
   NURSING HOME. A residential facility licensed by the State of Ohio which
provides skilled nursing care to individuals who by reason of illness or
physical or mental impairment require such care.
   OBSCURING GREENBELT. Evergreen or similar plant material which obstructs the
view.
   OFF-STREET PARKING LOT.  A facility providing vehicular parking spaces along
with adequate drives and aisles, for maneuvering and providing access for
entrance and exit so as to provide for the parking of more than two vehicles.
   OPEN SPACE. Any part of a lot which is in its natural state, open and
unobstructed except for natural vegetation.
   PARKING SPACE. An area of definite length and width, exclusive of aisles and
drives or entrances giving access thereto, and fully accessible for the
temporary storage of motor vehicles.
   PARABOLIC or DISH-TYPE ANTENNA. Any structure that is a concave, circular or
dish-shaped device designed for receiving communications or television signals
from a satellite or a ground station. The antenna shall be considered to be a
conditionally permitted use.
   PERMANENT FOUNDATION. A permanent masonry, concrete, or locally approved
footing or foundation, to which an industrialized unit or manufactured home may
be affixed.
   PRIVATE. Use is limited to occupants or their guests.
   PRIVATE SWIMMING OR TENNIS CLUB. Buildings and grounds owned by a nonprofit
organization used for swimming or tennis for recreational purposes by members
who are invited or elected to join with the use of the facilities restricted to
members and their guests and not open to the general public.
   PSYCHIATRIC. That branch of medicine which deals with mental, emotional or
behavioral disorders.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any person, firm, corporation, governmental agency or board
or other entity other than the village authorized to furnish and furnishing
under governmental regulations to the public, electricity, gas, steam,
telephone, telegraph, cable television service, transportation, water or
sewerage.
   RECREATIONAL. The use of land for entertainment by active participation of
patrons such as sporting events or games of skill.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular portable structure designed to be used as
a temporary dwelling for travel or recreation purposes and includes travel
trailers, motor homes and truck campers.
   REST HOME. A residential facility licensed by the State of Ohio which
provides personal assistance for persons who are dependent upon the assistance
of others by reason of age or physical or mental impairment but not requiring
skilled nursing care.
   RESTAURANT. A public eating establishment in which the primary function is
the preparation and serving of food for consumption on or off the premises but
is not licensed by the state to sell beer or intoxicating liquor.
   RETAIL SALE. The transfer of title to personal property for the purpose of
consumption or use as opposed to resale.
   RETIREMENT CENTERS. A residential facility designed primarily for the
elderly which may include a nursing home, rest home or individual apartment
units in combination along with retail facilities and other accessory uses
intended primarily to serve residents.
   ROOMING HOUSE. A dwelling or part thereof where lodging is provided for
compensation for four or fewer unrelated persons where no cooking or dining
facilities are provided to those persons in individual rooms or elsewhere on
the premises.
   SEMITRAILER. Any vehicle of the trailer type without motive power so
designed or used with another and separate motor vehicle that in operation a
part of its own weight or that of its load, or both, rests upon and is carried
by such other vehicle furnishing the motive power for propelling itself and the
vehicle referred to in this division, and includes, for the purpose only of
registration and taxation under the chapters, any vehicle of the dolly type,
such as a trailer dolly, designed or used for the conversion of a semitrailer
into a trailer.
   STORY. That part of a building, included between the surface of one floor
and the surface of the next floor above or if there is no floor above, then the
ceiling next above.
   STREET. A right-of-way which affords the principal means of access to
abutting property and which has been dedicated or deeded to the public use and
accepted by the village.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires location on or
below the ground, or attachment of something having a location on the ground.
This includes, but is not limited to swimming pools, decks, fences, tennis
courts and other personal recreational activities.
   SWIMMING POOL.
      (1)   A SWIMMING POOL means any vessel of container which is capable of
holding water exceeding two feet in depth at any point or greater than 200
square feet in surface area. It is to be used by the property owner or lessee
thereof or his or her family and by friends invited to use it without payment
of any fee.
      (2)   PORTABLE SWIMMING POOL means any vessel or container no capable of
holding water more than two feet in depth. It shall be considered to be a
conforming use within any residential district and no zoning permit is
required.
   TAVERN. An establishment open to the public which sells food and is licensed
to sell beer or intoxicating liquor by the State of Ohio but does not provide
live entertainment or permit dancing by patrons.
   TEMPORARY USE OR BUILDING. A use of building permitted by the Planning
Commission to exist during periods of construction of the principal building
for use, or for special events.
   TRAILER. Any non-selfpropelled vehicle originally designed or adapted to be
pulled by a motor vehicle to provide its motive power, and designed, intended
or used to carry or store goods including a vehicle originally designed or
intended to be used on rails such as a box car, caboose or other railroad car.
   USE.  The principal purpose for which land, or a building is arranged,
designed or intended, or for which land or a building is or may be occupied.
   WAREHOUSE. A building used for the reception and storage of goods, materials
and merchandise temporarily or for a length of time.
   WHOLESALE SALE. The transfer of title to personal property for the purpose
of resale.
   YARDS. The open spaces on the same lot as the principal building, unoccupied
and unobstructed from the ground upward except for natural vegetation and
further defined as follows:
      (1)   FRONT YARD. An open space extending the full width of the lot, the
depth of which is the minimum horizontal distance between the street right-of-
way line and the nearest point of the principal building.
      (2)   SIDE YARD. An open space between the side lot line and the
principal building, extending from the front yard to the rear yard, the width
of which is the minimum horizontal distance from the nearest point on the side
lot line to the nearest point of the principal building.
      (3)   REAR YARD. An open space extending the full width of the lot, the
depth of which is the minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot line and
the nearest point of the principal building.
(Ord. 87-27, § 115, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 8-95, passed 4-3-1995; Ord. 20-99,
passed 11-1-1999; Ord. 27-06, passed 7-17-2006; Ord. 09-4, passed 1-19-2009)
ARCHITECTURAL DISTRICT
§ 155.030 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to maintain a high character of community
development, to protect and preserve property, to promote the stability of
property values and to protect real estate from impairment or destruction of
value for the general community welfare by regulating the exterior
architectural characteristics of structures throughout the hereinafter defined
Architectural District. It is the further purpose of this chapter to recognize
and preserve the distinctive historical and architectural character of this
community which has been greatly influenced by the architecture of an earlier
period in this community's history. These purposes will be served by the
regulation of exterior design, use of materials, the finish grade line,
landscaping and orientation of all structures hereinafter altered, constructed,
reconstructed, erected, enlarged or remodeled in the hereinafter defined
Architectural District.
(Ord. 87-27, § 120, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.031 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   There is hereby established an Architectural District which shall include
all lots abutting Main Street running Southerly from the Clear Fork River to
Durbin Street. It shall also include all lots abutting Howard Smith Blvd. and
all lots abutting Church Street between Main Street and Bell Street. The
Architectural District shall also include lot 85 and the east part of Lot 89.
(Ord. 87-27, § 121, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.032 APPLICATION AND NOTICE.
   (A)   Whenever a structure, as defined by this chapter, whether public or
private, within the above described district is proposed to be constructed or
erected and whenever an existing structure is proposed to be altered,
reconstructed, enlarged or remodeled, if the alteration, reconstruction,
enlargement, or remodeling involves the exterior design, material, finish grade
line, landscaping or orientation of the structure and application for a
certificate of appropriateness shall be filed with the Fiscal Officer.
   (B)   The application shall be accompanied by a line drawing indicating at a
minimum, the lot dimensions, size, shape and dimensions of the structure, the
location and orientation of the structure on the lot and the actual or proposed
building setback lines. In addition, the application shall be accompanied by a
detailed narrative description of the proposed design or change of design, use
of materials, finish grade line, landscaping and orientation of the structure.
Applications for structures to be constructed or remodeled, which remodeling
would increase or decrease the total gross building area by 50% or more, shall
be accompanied by a colored elevation showing at a minimum, the design, use of
materials, finish grade line, landscaping and orientation of buildings. In
addition, the Board of Architectural Review may require the submission of
colored perspectives or architectural renderings.
   (C)   (1)   Upon receipt of an application for a certificate of
appropriateness, which is accompanied by the material required by the
provisions of division (B) hereof, the Fiscal Officer shall schedule a hearing
on the applications which shall be held at the next regular Board meeting
occurring more than 14 days after the application is filed or at the special
meeting called for this purpose. The 14-day requirement herein may be waived by
the Board for good cause shown.
      (2)   At the hearing, all testimony shall be received under oath or
affirmation, a verbatim record of the proceedings shall be kept, the
application shall be allowed upon application and deposit of fees to the
issuance of subpoenas for the attendance of witnesses, all testimony shall be
subject to cross examination.
      (3)   The Board shall render its decision within a reasonable time after
the hearing not to exceed 60 days and advise the applicant in writing thereof.
      (4)   In addition, there shall be a notice posted on the subject property
stating that an application has been filed and the date of the hearing.
(Ord. 87-27, §122, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.033 BOARD OF ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW.
   The Village Planning Commission shall act as the Board of Architectural
Review when considering any application for a certificate of appropriateness.
(Ord. 87-27, § 123, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.034 STANDARDS FOR REVIEW: CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   (A)    The Board of Architectural Review, in deciding whether to issue a
certificate of appropriateness, shall determine that the application under
consideration promotes, preserves and enhances the distinctive historical
village character of the community and would not be at variance with existing
structures within that portion of the district in which the structure is or is
proposed to be located as to be detrimental to the interests of the district as
set forth in §
155.030. In conducting its review, the Board shall make examination of and give
consideration to the elements of the application including, but not necessarily
limited to:
      (1)   Height, which shall include the requirements of §
155.195.
      (2)   Building massing, which shall include in addition to the
requirements of §
155.196, the relationship of the building width to its height and depth, and
its relationship to the viewer's and pedestrian's visual perspective.
      (3)   Window treatment, which shall include the size, shape and materials
of the individual window units and the overall harmonious relationship of
window openings.
      (4)   Exterior detail and relationships, which shall include all
projecting and receding elements of the exterior, including but not limited to,
porches and overhangs and the horizontal or vertical expression which is
conveyed by these elements.
      (5)   Roof shape, which shall include type, form and materials.
      (6)   Materials: texture and color, which shall include a consideration
of material compatibility among various elements of the structure.
      (7)   Compatibility of design and details, which shall include, the
appropriateness of the use of exterior design details.
      (8)   Landscape design and plant materials, which shall include, in
addition to requirements of this Zoning Code, lighting and the use of landscape
details to highlight architectural features or screen or soften undesirable
views.
      (9)   Pedestrian environment, which shall include the provision of
features which enhance pedestrian movement and environment and which relate to
the pedestrian's visual perspective.
      (10)   Signage, which shall include, in addition to requirements of §
155.285 et seq. the appropriateness of signage to the building.
   (B)   In conducting its inquiry and review, the Board may request from the
applicant such additional information, sketches and data as it shall reasonably
require. It may call upon experts and specialists for testimony and opinion
regarding the matters under examination. It may recommend to the applicant
changes in the plans that it considers desirable and may accept a voluntary
amendment to the application to include or reflect such changes. The Board
shall keep a record of its proceedings and shall append to the application
copies of information, sketches and data needed to clearly describe any
amendment to it.
   (C)   When its review is concluded, the Board will determine by a vote of
its members, whether the application for a certificate of appropriateness shall
be approved. If approved by three or more of its members, the Board shall
return the application and appended material to the Fiscal Officer with the
instruction that the certificate of appropriateness be issued, provided all
other requirements for a building permit, if applicable, are met. If not
approved, the Board shall return the application and appended material to the
applicant with a notice that the certificate of appropriateness shall not be
issued because the application did not meet the criteria and standards set
forth herein.
(Ord. 87-27, § 124, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.035 PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY UPON DEMOLITION OF A STRUCTURE.
   (A)   Whenever a structure within the district is proposed to be demolished,
an application for a certificate of appropriateness shall be filed with the
Fiscal Officer as provided in this chapter. In considering the application, the
Board of Architectural Review shall limit its inquiry to the proposal for
grading, landscaping and other design treatment of the property once the
structure has been removed.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the demolition
of a structure whether public or private, within the district.
(Ord. 87-27, § 125, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.036 REPAIR OR MAINTENANCE EXCEPTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent any ordinary repair or
maintenance or an exterior architectural feature or any ordinary planting and
landscaping now in the District.
(Ord. 87-27, § 126, passed 7-7-1987)
AGRICULTURAL FAIR DISTRICT
§ 155.050 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Agricultural Fair District is to recognize the historic
operation of the week-long Bellville Street Fair by the Bellville Agricultural
Society and thereby establish an area that has traditionally been the site of
the Bellville Street Fair and also complies with requirements of R.C. Chapter
1711.
(Ord. 87-27, § 130, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 8-95, passed 4-3-1995)
§ 155.051 USE.
   Within the AFD Agricultural Fair District, the following uses and no others
shall be permitted:
   (A)   An agricultural fair;
   (B)   Accessory uses and temporary accessory building/structures as
associated with an agricultural fair.
(Ord. 87-27, § 131, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 8-95, passed 4-3-1995)
§ 155.052 NONCONFORMING USES.
   Permanent uses of land and buildings existing prior to and continuing
thereafter from year to year shall be considered lawful nonconforming uses
provided they are otherwise permitted by this chapter.
(Ord. 87-27, § 132, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 8-95, passed 4-3-1995)
§ 155.053 EXCLUDED AGRICULTURAL FAIR DISTRICT USES.
   In an Agricultural Fair District the following uses are prohibited:
   (A)   Sale of liquor and beer;
   (B)   Gambling.
(Ord. 87-27, § 133, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 8-95, passed 4-3-1995)
CD CONSERVATION DISTRICT
§ 155.065 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the CD Conservation District is to provide an area for water
for conservation uses, water protection works and certain recreational uses.
(Ord. 87-27, § 150, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.066 USES.
   Within the CD Conservation District the following uses and no other shall be
permitted:
   (A)   Recreational uses as defined.
   (B)   Water conservation uses including water supply works, flood control
and water protection works.
(Ord. 87-27, § 151, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.067 CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USES.
   Within the CD Conservation District the following uses shall be
conditionally permitted:
   (A)   Utility and public service buildings and uses (excluding storage
yards), when operating requirements necessitate the locating of the building
within the district in order to serve the immediate vicinity.
   (B)   The storage of one bus/recreational vehicle or travel trailer per lot.
   (C)   Removal of topsoil provided:
      (1)   Hours of operation shall be limited between 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
Monday through Saturday.
      (2)   Dust control shall be utilized and means to avoid the placement of
mud on public streets shall be used.
      (3)   Mounding and/or stockpiling of soil shall be prohibited.
      (4)   Entrance to work site for motor vehicles shall be prepared with the
gravel and drainage of the public right-of-way shall be maintained.
      (5)   Trucks at the work site shall be limited to single-axle/tandem
wheel trucks.
      (6)   Upon removal of topsoil reconditioning and reseeding of the soil
shall be immediately performed.
      (7)   Such other conditions that the planning commission shall require in
order to protect the public safety and welfare.
   (D)   Churches, synagogues and temples of religious worship, provided:
      (1)   They are located in an existing building;
      (2)   They are located on a minimum of 20 acres; and
      (3)   A minimum of 50% of the property is dedicated to the permitted
purposes of CD Conservation Districts.
(Ord. 87-27, § 152, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 26-88, passed 2-7-1989; Ord. 12-08,
passed 3-17-2008)
§ 155.068 ACCESS.
   All uses conditionally permitted under paragraph §
155.067(A) shall have access directly onto an arterial or collector
thoroughfare and all driveways shall exit onto the streets. All driveways shall
enter the street right of way at a point that is at least 100 feet from the
nearest intersection of public streets.
(Ord. 87-27, § 153, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.069 LIGHTING.
   All exterior lighting in this district shall be shielded so as not to shine
onto adjoining properties.
(Ord. 87-27, § 154, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.070 LOUDSPEAKERS.
   No loudspeakers shall be allowed or be permitted to be used in such a manner
that they are designed or intended to broadcast so as to cause a hazard or
annoyance.
(Ord. 87-27, § 155, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.071 MINIMUM LOT SIZE.
   The minimum lot size for those uses permitted in a Conservation District
shall be two acres.
(Ord. 87-27, § 156, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.072 LOT WIDTH.
   All lots located within the Conservation District shall have a minimum lot
width of 200 feet.
(Ord. 87-27, § 157, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.073 MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT.
   All buildings in §§ 155.066(A) and 155.067(A) shall not exceed more than 25
feet in height or two stories in height above the ground level except for a
steeple, chimney, aerial, or other appurtenances.
(Ord. 87-27, § 158, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.074 SETBACKS.
   All buildings in §§
155.066 and
155.067 shall meet the following set back requirements:
   (A)   Front: 30 feet from street right of way.
   (B)   Side: Ten feet from side property line.
   (C)   Rear: 40 feet from rear property line.
   (D)   Accessory building: See §
155.294.
(Ord. 87-27, § 159, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.075 GREENBELT REQUIREMENTS.
   A greenbelt shall be required for all buildings located in §
155.066(A) and (B), and §
155.067(A). The greenbelt shall be required in all side and rear lot lines. A
greenbelt in front of a utility or public service building is required within
12 feet of building. See §
155.304.
(Ord. 87-27, § 160, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.076 FLOOD PLAIN.
   Most sections of a Conservation Districts are located in a flood plain.
Therefore a flood plain permit must be submitted with any application for a
zoning permit.
(Ord. 87-27, § 161, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.077 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   See §
155.346.
(Ord. 87-27, § 162, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.078 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   See §
155.320.
(Ord. 87-27, § 163, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.079 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   See §
155.285.
(Ord. 87-27, § 164, passed 7-7-1987)
R-1 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 155.090 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the R-1 Residential District is to provide for low density
residential development with a minimum on non-residential intrusion.
(Ord. 87-27, § 200, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.091 USE.
   Within the R-1 Residential District the following uses and no others shall
be permitted:
   (A)   One-family dwelling units.
   (B)   Two-family dwelling units.
   (C)   Accessory uses. See definition.
   (D)   Accessory buildings. See §
155.294.
(Ord. 87-27, § 201, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.092 CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USES.
   Within the R-1 Residential District the following uses shall be
conditionally permitted:
   (A)   Home occupations.
   (B)   Churches, synagogues and temples for religious worship.
   (C)   Public or private schools certified by the State of Ohio and offering
courses in grades kindergarten through high school.
   (D)   Private swimming pools or tennis courts, basketball courts and skating
rinks except that no such use shall be enclosed by any temporary or permanent
structure or building, except for a fence subject to §
155.094.
   (E)   Utility and public service buildings and uses (excluding storage
yards) when operating requirements necessitate the locating of said building
within the district in order to serve the immediate vicinity.
   (F)   Parabolic/dish type antennae. See §
155.303.
(Ord. 87-27, § 202, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.093 ACCESS.
   All uses conditionally permitted under §
155.092(B), (C) and (E) shall have access directly onto an arterial or
collector thoroughfare and all driveways shall exit onto such streets. All
driveways shall enter the street right of way at a point that is at least 100
feet from the nearest intersection of public streets.
(Ord. 87-27, § 203, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.094 FENCING/SCREENING.
   Fencing/screening shall be permitted in §
155.091(A) and (B) and §
155.092(B), (D) and (E) subject to the following conditions:
   (A)   No fencing shall extend towards the front lot line beyond the rear of
the principal buildings or structures except for decorative fencing.
   (B)   A decorative fence, whose sole purpose is to enhance the
attractiveness of the house, shall be permitted on an individual basis. In no
circumstances will such fences be placed upon village rights-of-way, nor shall
exceed four feet in height.
   (C)   Privacy fence shall be permitted subject to the following conditions:
No privacy fence may exceed the maximum height of six feet. It must be located
only in the back or side yard from the rear of the principal building.
   (D)   Fence requirements in §
155.122(G) and (H) will take precedent over any of the above requirements.
(Ord. 87-27, § 204, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 43-04, passed 7-19-2004)
§ 155.095 LIGHTING.
   All exterior lighting in this district shall be shielded so as not to shine
onto adjoining property.
(Ord. 87-27, § 205, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.096 LOUDSPEAKERS.
   No loudspeakers shall be allowed outside of any building nor shall they be
permitted to be used inside any building in such a manner that they are
designed or intended to broadcast outside of the building.
(Ord. 87-27, § 206, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.097 MINIMUM LOT SIZE.
   The minimum lot size for those uses permitted under §
155.091(A) and (B) and §
155.092(D) and (E) are as follows:
   (A)   Lots with EPA approved municipal or private sewer systems serving more
than one lot:
      (1)   Width: 90 feet.
      (2)   Length: 130 feet.
      (3)   Total square feet: 11,700 square feet.
      (4)   Width at set back: 90 feet.
   (B)   Lots without EPA approved municipal or private sewer systems must be
of adequate size to obtain approval for an on-site system based on the most
current Richland Public Health Department rules and regulations; in addition,
the lot shall be at least:
      (1)   Width: 100 feet.
      (2)   Length: 130 feet.
      (3)   Total square feet: 43,560 (one acre).
      (4)   Width at set back: 100 feet.
   (C)   The minimum lot size for those uses permitted under § 155.092(B) and
(C) shall be two acres.
   (D)   The preceding lot size requirements are not applicable to lots within
the R-1 district for which the size was established prior to January 1, 1987.
For such lots, the required width is no less than 60 feet and no minimum length
applies. In the event the dimensions of such lots changes, all of the above
size requirements apply to new construction.
(Ord. 87-27, § 207, passed 7-7-1987; Am. Ord. 12-2018, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 155.098 MAXIMUM BUILDING SIZE.
   All uses conditionally permitted under §
155.092(B) and (C) shall have no more than 25% of the lot area covered by
buildings.
(Ord. 87-27, § 208, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.099 MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT.
   All buildings/structures under §
155.091(A) and (B) and §
155.092(B), (C) and (E) shall not exceed more than 35 feet in height or two
stories in height above the ground level except for a steeple, chimney, aerial
or other appurtenances.
(Ord. 87-27, § 209, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.100 SETBACKS.
   (A)   All buildings/structures in §
155.091(A) and (B) and §
155.092(D) shall meet the following setback requirements:
      (1)   Front: 30 feet from street right of way.
      (2)   Side: six feet from side property line.
      (3)   Rear: 40 feet from rear property line.
      (4)   Accessory building: See §
155.294.
   (B)   All buildings/structures in §
155.092(B), (C) and (E) shall meet the following set back requirements:
      (1)   Front: 30 feet from street right of way.
      (2)   Side: 25 feet from side property line.
      (3)   Rear: 50 feet from rear property line.
   (C)   All property situated at the intersecting of two public streets
(corner lots) shall meet the minimum set back requirements as required in that
district along both such streets.
(Ord. 87-27, § 210, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.101 MINIMUM FLOOR AREA.
   The minimum interior floor area shall be as follows:
   (A)   One-family dwelling unit: 1,200 square feet.
   (B)   Two-family dwelling unit: 1,000 square feet per unit.
(Ord. 87-27, § 211, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.102 GARAGE.
   Each dwelling unit shall have a minimum of one garage with dimensions not
less than 12 by 22 feet and which shall be located on the same lot as the
dwelling.
(Ord. 87-27, § 212, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.103 GREENBELT REQUIREMENTS.
   All parking lots located in §
155.092(B), (C), (D) and (E) must in addition to a required set back of 12 feet
from all abutting property lines be required to have and maintain an obscuring
greenbelt. See §
155.304.
(Ord. 87-27, § 213, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.104 FRONT YARD VARIANCE.
   In any R-l District where the average depth of at least two existing front
yards on lots located within 100 feet of the lot in question and within the
same block are less or greater than the minimum front yard set back prescribed,
the Planning Commission may modify the required front yard depth of the lot no
more than ten feet.
(Ord. 87-27, § 214, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.105 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   See §
155.346.
(Ord. 87-27, §215, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.106 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   See §
155.320.
   (B)   No parking in front yards. No person shall park, nor shall any land
owner, resident, or other person in control of a parcel in this district allow
a person to park, a vehicle, trailer, or watercraft in the front yard of a
parcel within this district except within an off-street parking area (including
a garage) or a driveway. Off-street parking areas, garages, and driveways must
be placed and surfaced in conformity with the requirements of this Zoning Code.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section only, the “front yard” of a parcel
includes all areas enclosed between the paved street and a line running
parallel to the street adjacent to the closest part of the permanent structure,
excluding porches and appurtenances, of the primary building on the parcel.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section only, for a parcel that is adjacent
to more than one street, the “front yard” of that parcel includes all areas
enclosed between the paved street and a line running parallel to the street and
adjacent to the closest part of the permanent structure, excluding porches and
appurtenances, of the primary building on the parcel for every street to which
the parcel is adjacent.
      (3)   For the purpose of this section only, “street” means any dedicated
right-of-way and excludes alleys.
      (4)   The prohibition on parking in this section shall not apply under
the following conditions:
         (a)   Vehicles actively being used for the purposes of construction,
landscaping or other improvement to the property or adjacent property, but only
during hours while work is being performed and only during the time the
vehicles are actually being used in connection with such improvements.
         (b)   During larger renovations or construction projects on the
property when the owner has notified the Village Planning Commission of such
projects and when the projects have a definitive end date.
         (c)   Vehicles owned and operated by utility companies or the village
during the performance of work on behalf of such utility companies or the
village.
         (d)   Marked police cruisers of any jurisdiction when used for
official business.
         (e)   Emergency vehicles when used for official business.
         (f)   While actually being used in loading or unloading of furniture
and heavy loads; groceries, regardless of weight, are not heavy loads.
         (g)   During the annual Agricultural Street Fair.
         (h)   During special events such as parties or family gatherings, but
only after all other available parking is exhausted.
         (i)   In locations where there is no curb and the vehicle will not be
on or crossing a sidewalk, private vehicles parked in the front yard of a
residence immediately adjacent to the street, parallel to the direction of
traffic, with the edge of the vehicle closest to the residence being no further
than ten feet from the street.
   (C)   The prohibitions in this section are in addition to other parking
prohibitions and do not create any additional parking rights not in existence.
   (D)   Violations, penalty.
      (1)   Against the owner of the property upon which a vehicle is parked in
violation of this section, any violation of this section shall be a strict
liability offense and shall be a minor misdemeanor. The responsibility of the
owner of the property shall be in addition to, and not be contingent upon, or
exclusive of, any responsibility of another party.
      (2)   Against the owner of the vehicle parked in violation of this
section, any violation of this section shall be a strict liability offense and
shall be a minor misdemeanor. The responsibility of the owner of the vehicle
shall be in addition to, and not be contingent upon, or exclusive of, any
responsibility of another party.
      (3)   Against the resident or other person who controls the property upon
which a vehicle is parked in violation of this section, a first violation of
this section shall be a strict liability offense and shall be a minor
misdemeanor. Any subsequent violation shall be a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree, but shall require proof of knowledge; such subsequent violations may in
the alternative be charged as a strict liability minor misdemeanor by omitting
reference to a prior violation. The responsibility of the resident or other
person who controls the property shall be in addition to, and not be contingent
upon, or exclusive of, any responsibility of another party.
      (4)   No individual person shall be charged under more than one of the
preceding paragraphs of this division (D) for a specific instance of prohibited
parking.
      (5)   Each day of prohibited parking shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 87-27, § 216, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 9-2015, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 155.107 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   See §
155.285.
(Ord. 87-27, §217, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.108 EXCLUDED RESIDENTIAL USES.
   In any R-1 District the following uses are excluded:
   (A)   House trailers.
   (B)   Manufactured homes.
   (C)   Junk or unlicensed motor vehicles that are stored outside any building
or structure.
(Ord. 87-27, § 218, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 20-99, passed 11-1-1999)
R-2 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 155.120 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the R-2 Residential District is to provide for moderate
density residential development with a minimum of non-residential intrusion.
(Ord. 87-27, § 240, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.121 USE.
   Within the R-2 Residential District the following uses and no others will be
permitted:
   (A)   One-family dwelling units.
   (B)   Two-family dwelling units.
   (C)   Accessory uses. See definition.
   (D)   Accessory buildings. See §
155.294.
(Ord. 87-27, § 241, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.122 CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USES.
   Within the R-2 Residential District the following uses and no others will be
permitted:
   (A)   Home occupations.
   (B)   Churches, synagogues, and temples for religious worship.
   (C)   Public or private schools certified by the State of Ohio and offering
courses in grades kindergarten through high school.
   (D)   Private swimming pools or tennis courts, basketball courts and skating
rinks except that no such use shall be enclosed by any temporary or permanent
building or structure except for a fence that is subject to §
155.125.
   (E)   Utility and public service buildings and uses (excluding storage
yards) when operating requirements necessitate the locating of the building
within the district in order to serve the immediate vicinity.
   (F)   Parabolic/dish-type antennae. See §
155.303.
   (G)   Multi-family dwelling units, two stories or less and subject further
to the following:
      (1)   Proposed development shall have one property line abutting an
arterial thoroughfare or the boundary line of a B-Business or I-Industrial
District.
      (2)   A 15-foot wide greenbelt measured from the lot line shall be
provided on all side and rear yards of multifamily developments. See §
155.124.
      (3)   A six-foot high obscuring fence shall be provided along the side
and rear perimeters of all parking lots. The fence/screening devices shall not
have any openings except the openings as may be required by the Fire Department
for vehicular or emergency access to the proposed development.
      (4)   A maximum of ten multi-family dwelling units shall be allowed per
acre.
   (H)   Townhouse dwellings provided that there will be no more than four
townhouse dwellings in any contiguous group. All such dwellings are subject to
same requirements as division (G)(1), (2), (3) and (4) above.
(Ord. 87-27, § 242, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.123 ACCESS.
   All uses conditionally permitted under §
155.122(B), (C), (E), (G) and (H) shall have access directly onto an arterial
or collector street and all driveways shall exit onto such streets. All
driveways shall enter the street right of way at a point that is at least 100
feet from the nearest intersections of public streets.
(Ord. 87-27, § 243, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.124 GREENBELT REQUIREMENTS.
   All parking lots located in §
155.122(B), (C), (E), (G) and (H) in addition to having a required set back of
12 feet from all abutting property lines shall be required to have and maintain
an obscuring greenbelt. All buildings/structures in §
155.122(E) shall have and maintain an obscuring greenbelt. A greenbelt is
required 12 feet from front of building. See §
155.304.
(Ord. 87-27, § 244, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.125 FENCING/SCREENING.
   Fencing/screening shall be permitted in paragraphs §
155.121(A) and (B) and §
155.122(B) through (H) subject to the following conditions:
   (A)   No fencing shall extend towards the front lot line behind the rear of
the principal buildings or structures except for decorative fencing.
   (B)   A decorative fence, whose sole purpose is to enhance the
attractiveness of the house, shall be permitted on an individual basis. In no
circumstances will such fences be placed upon village rights-of-way, no fence
shall exceed four feet in height.
   (C)   Privacy fence shall be permitted subject to the following conditions:
No privacy fence may exceed the maximum height of six feet. It must be located
only in the back or side yard from the rear of the principal building.
   (D)   Fence requirements in §
155.122(G) and (H) will take precedent over any of the above requirements.
   (E)   See §
155.306.
(Ord. 87-27, § 245, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 43-04, passed 7-19-2004)
§ 155.126 LIGHTING.
   All exterior lighting in this district shall be shielded so as not to shine
onto adjoining properties.
(Ord. 87-27, § 246, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.127 LOUDSPEAKERS.
   No loudspeakers shall be allowed outside of any building nor shall they be
permitted to be used inside any building in such a manner that they are
designed or intended to broadcast outside of the buildings.
(Ord. 87-27, § 247, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.128 MINIMUM LOT SIZE.
   (A)   The minimum lot size for those uses permitted under §
155.121(A) and (B) and §
155.122(D) and (E) are as follows:
      (1)   Lots with EPA approved municipal or private sewer systems serving
more than one lot:
         (a)   Width: 90 feet.
         (b)   Length: 130 feet.
         (c)   Total square feet: 11,700 square feet.
         (d)   Width at set back: 90 feet.
      (2)   Lots without EPA municipal or private sewer systems must have the
following:
         (a)   Width: 100 feet.
         (b)   Length: 130 feet.
         (c)   Total square feet: 4,840 (one acre).
         (d)   Width at set back: 100 feet.
   (B)   The minimum lot size for those uses permitted under §
155.122(G) and (H) are as follows:
      (1)   With EPA approved municipal or private sewer systems serving more
than one lot:
         (a)   Width: 200 feet.
         (b)   Length: 130 feet.
         (c)   Total square feet: 20,000 square feet.
         (d)   Width at set back line: 200 feet.
      (2)   Lots without EPA municipal or private sewer systems must have same
requirements as §
155.128(B).
         (a)   The minimum lot size for those uses permitted under §
155.122(B) and (C) shall be two acres.
         (b)   Accessory building: See §
155.294.
         (c)   Whenever more than one building in §
155.122(G) and (H) are located on the same lot, the minimum distance between
buildings shall be 20 feet.
(Ord. 87-27, § 248, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.129 MULTI-FAMILY/TOWNHOUSE UNIT AREA.
   Each dwelling unit shall contain the following minimum floor area:
   (A)   Studio apartment: 500 square feet.
   (B)   One-bedroom apartment: 600 square feet.
   (C)   Two bedroom apartment: 700 square feet.
   (D)   Three or more bedroom apartment: 850 square feet.
(Ord. 87-27,§ 249, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.130 MAXIMUM BUILDING SIZE.
   All uses conditionally permitted under §
155.122(B), (C), (G) and (H) shall have no more than 25% of their lot area
covered by buildings.
(Ord. 87-27, § 250, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.131 MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT.
   All buildings/structures under §
155.121(A) and (B) and §
155.122(B), (C), (D), (E), (G) and (H) shall not exceed more than 25 feet in
height or two stories in height above the ground level except for a steeple,
chimney, aerial, or other appurtenances.
(Ord. 87-27, § 251, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.132 SETBACKS.
   (A)   All buildings/structures in §
155.121(A) and (B) and §
155.122(D) shall meet the following set back requirements:
      (1)   Front: 30 feet from street right-of-way.
      (2)   Side: six feet from side property line.
      (3)   Rear: 40 feet from rear property line.
   (B)   All building/structures in §
155.122(B), (C), (E), (G) and (H) shall meet the following set back
requirements:
      (1)   Front: 30 feet from street right of way.
      (2)   Side: 25 feet from side property line.
      (3)   Rear: 50 feet from rear property line.
(Ord. 87-27, § 252, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.133 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   See §
155.346.
(Ord. 87-27, § 253, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.134 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   See §
155.320.
(Ord. 87-27, § 254, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.135 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   See §
155.285.
(Ord. 87-27, § 255, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.136 EXCLUDED RESIDENTIAL USES.
   In any R-2 District the following uses are excluded:
   (A)   House trailers.
   (B)   Manufactured homes.
   (C)   Junk or unlicensed motor vehicles that are stored outside any building
or structure.
(Ord. 87-27, § 256, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 20-99, passed 11-1-1999)
PLANNED RESIDENCE DISTRICT
§ 155.150 PR PLANNED RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The village, recognizing with increased urbanization and
population growth comes increased demands for well-organized residential areas
which take into account unique natural factors, contemporary land use concepts,
and a balanced residential environment, hereby provides for the Planned
Residence District. The following regulations are provided for the purpose of
promoting the general welfare, encouraging the efficient use of land and
resources, promoting greater efficiency in providing public and utility
services and encouraging innovation in the planning and building of residential
developments.
   (B)   Application. The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all
lands of the village for parcels greater than five acres. The area of a
district must be an integral tract. It cannot be a collection of isolated
pieces of land.
   (C)   Permitted uses. Within the Planned Residence District (PR), the
following uses, developed in strict compliance with the approved development
plan and standards, shall be permitted:
      (1)   Single-family or multi-family permanent dwelling be it either
detached semidetached, attached, cluster, patio, common wall or any reasonable
variation on the same theme.
      (2)   Non-residential uses of a religious, cultural, educational or
recreational nature or character to the extent that they are designed and
intended to serve the residents of the Planned Residence District. The
facilities may be designed to serve adjoining neighborhoods or residents if
they are located in such proximity to the major thoroughfares as to permit
access without burdening residential streets.
   (D)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   No use not specifically authorized by the express terms of this
subchapter of the shall be permitted.
      (2)   Outdoor storage of inoperable, unlicensed or unused motor vehicles
is prohibited. The vehicles if stored on the premises shall be enclosed within
a building so as not to be visible from any adjoining property or public road.
      (3)   No trailer of any type, no boats, no motor homes and no equipment
of any type shall be parked within this district except within an enclosed
garage.
      (4)   No trash, debris, unused property or discarded materials shall be
permitted to accumulate on any lot or portion thereof which creates an eyesore,
hazard or nuisance to the neighborhood or general public.
   (E)   Procedure. In addition to any other procedures set out in this
chapter, all applications for amendments to the zoning map to rezoning lands to
this district shall follow the procedures hereinafter set forth:
      (1)   Application. The owner or owners of lots within the village may
request that the zoning map be amended to include such tracts in the Planned
Residence District in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Development. Six copies of the development plan shall be submitted
with the application, which plan shall include in the text and map form:
         (a)   The proposed size and location of the Planned Residential
District.
         (b)   The general development character of the tract including the
specific limitations or controls to be placed on residential and related uses,
with probable lot sizes and other development features including landscaping.
         (c)   Architectural design criteria for all structures and criteria
for proposed signs with proposed control procedures.
         (d)   The proposed provisions for water, sanitary sewer and surface
drainage with engineering feasibility studies or other evidence of
reasonableness.
         (e)   The proposed traffic patterns showing public and private road
and other transportation facilities, including their relationship to existing
conditions, topographically and otherwise. Any development utilizing a private
road and must have a minimum width of 60 feet fronting on a public road.
         (f)   The relationship of the proposed development to existing and
probable uses of surrounding areas during and after the development timetable.
         (g)   The proposed timetable or schedule for development of the site
including street, transportation facilities, building, utilities and other
facilities.
         (h)   If the proposed timetable for development includes developing
the land in phases, all phases to be developed after the first, which in no
event shall be less than five acres or the whole tract (whichever is smaller),
shall be fully described in textural form in a manner calculated to give
village officials definitive guidelines for approval of future phases.
      (3)   Criteria for approval. In approving an application for a Planned
Residence District, the reviewing authorities shall determine:
         (a)   If the proposed development is consistent in all respects with
the purpose, intent and applicable standards of this chapter.
         (b)   If the proposed development is in conformity with this chapter
and/or comprehensive plan or portion thereof as it may apply.
         (c)   If the proposed development advances the general public welfare
of the village and the immediate vicinity.
      (4)   Procedure for rezone. The procedure outlined in R.C. § 713.12 shall
be followed to consider an application for a rezone to a Planned Residence
District. Approval of the application pursuant to that section shall constitute
a rezone of the land in accordance with the applicant's development plan.
      (5)   Administration of the development plan. Administration of the
Development Plan shall be performed by the Village Planning Commission in
accordance with the following procedures:
         (a)   Administrative review; minor deviations. All plats, construction
drawings and other necessary documents shall be submitted to the Village
Planning Commission or their designated technical advisors for administrative
review and approval before filing to insure substantial compliance with the
development plan as approved. Minor changes in the location of buildings,
structures, streets or parking areas may be approved without public notice by
the Village Planning Commission upon submittal of a written application.
         (b)   Major deviations and public hearing.
            1.   Any major deviation from the approved development plan shall
not be considered by the Village Council until the owner of the property makes
a detailed written application to Village Council. The application shall
specifically detail the changes requested and the reasons for the change. A
major deviation shall include but not be limited to changes in use and/or
character of the development, increases of density of more than 10% and
increases in number of structures. (Any change in land use not otherwise
permitted by this chapter in a Planned Residential District shall require a
rezone of the land).
            2.   Upon receipt of any application for a major deviation from the
approved development plan, the village shall forward the application to the
Village Planning Commission. The application shall make a written
recommendation for the approval, modification, or denial of the application.
Upon receipt of the Commission's recommendation, the Council shall hold a
public meeting on the application. The public meeting shall be held within ten
days of receipt of the Commission's recommendation. Notice of the public
meeting shall be published once at least three days before the date of the
meeting. Within 20 days of the meeting the Village Council shall either approve
or disapprove the landowner's application. The applicant can amend his or her
application at anytime prior to the Council's vote.
            3.   Approval of the application shall require a majority vote of
the Council. An applicant can submit subsequent applications for major
deviations at anytime provided there is a reasonable and material amendment to
the preceding application.
            4.   The Council shall not conduct the meetings in a quasi-judicial
manner wherein the opportunity for hearings and the introduction of evidence is
permitted. The decisions of the Council shall be final and not appealable.
      (6)   Plat required. In the Planned Residential District (PR), no use
shall be established or changed and no structure shall be constructed or
altered until the required subdivision plat has been prepared and recorded in
accordance with subdivision regulations and this chapter. The subdivision plat
shall be in accord with the approved development plan and shall include:
         (a)   Site arrangement, including building setback lines and space to
be built upon with the site; water, fire hydrants, sewer, all underground
public utility installations, including sanitary sewers, surface drainage and
waste disposal facilities; easements, access points to public rights-of-way,
parking areas and pedestrian ways; and land reserved for non-highway service
use with indication of the nature of the use.
         (b)    Deed restrictions, covenants, easements and encumbrances to be
used to control the use, development and maintenance of the land, the
improvements thereon, and the activities of occupants, including those
applicable to areas within the tract to be developed for non-residential uses.
      (7)   Default. If construction of any building has not been commenced
within three years after approval of the initial development plan, approval of
the plan shall expire, unless an extension of the time limit has been approved
by a majority of the Council.
   (F)   Development standards. In addition to any other provisions of this
chapter, the following standards for arrangement and development of lands and
buildings are required in the Planned Residence District.
      (1)   Intensity of use. For purposes of development within the Planned
Residence District, the maximum density for development shall be as follows:
 
Type Dwelling               Maximum Units Per Gross Acre
Single-dwelling units       2
Multi-family dwelling units 6
 
      (2)   Open spaces. Organized open spaces shall be provided as regulated
by the applicable subdivision regulations.
      (3)   Arrangement of structures. The physical relationship of dwelling
units and their minimum yard space shall be determined in accordance with the
following:
         (a)   Set back. Single-family dwellings shall have a set back from the
right-of-way line of adjacent roads a distance equal to the width of the right-
of-way as approved in the plan of development or the existing streets and
roads. All other structures within the Planned Residence District shall have a
set back from the right-of-way equal to the right-of-way of roads withing the
development or the right-of-way of existing roads.
         (b)   Side yards. A single-family dwelling shall have a side yard of
not less than ten feet on each side of the structure. For all other structures
within the Planned Residence District the side yard shall be not less than one-
sixth of the sum of the height of the structures and length of the wall most
nearly parallel to the side lot line but in no case shall the structure be
closer than 15 feet to the lot line within the development except as follows:
            1.   In the event that the walls are solid and without windows, the
building shall not be closer than 15 feet to the adjoining structure; and
            2.   a.   In the event the wall has windows the structure shall be
not closer than 25 feet to the adjoining structure without regard to lot lines.
               b.   In no case shall any building be located closer than 15
feet to the outside perimeter line of the planned area.
               c.   The requirements for side yards herein shall apply to the
principal structures but shall not be interpreted as prohibiting designs of
single-family structures normally referred to as common wall, cluster, patio or
other variations on the same theme.
         (c)   Rear yards. A rear yard of not less than 25 feet shall be
maintained on all parcels within this district.
         (d)   Building height limits. No building in this district shall
exceed 40 feet in height.
      (4)   Landscaping. All yards, front, side and rear, shall be landscaped
and all organized open spaces or non-residential use areas shall be landscaped.
The landscape plans shall be submitted with the subdivision plat and shall be
subject to approval in the same manner required of the subdivision plat.
      (5)   Site development. The planned unit development standards provided
herein are for zoning purposes only. Any landowner intending to subdivide the
property for individual sale and ownership of lots must comply with the
applicable subdivision regulations.
      (6)   Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided, at the time of
construction of the dwellings. Each dwelling must be provided with two parking
spaces. On-street parking shall not be permitted. Parking for permitted non-
residential uses shall comply with the applicable parking regulations of this
chapter.
      (7)   Construction and maintenance of improvements within right-of-way.
The construction and maintenance of all improvements behind the curb line or
the edge of pavement including but not limited to drainage improvements,
landscaping improvements, sidewalks and/or driveway approaches shall be the
responsibility of the abutting property owner. Any owner utilizing a private
road for access to the public road by the development shall be solely
responsible for its construction, maintenance and repair. Any approval by the
village to rezone the property to a Planned Residential District shall not
constitute acceptance of any road or right-of-way or obligate the village in
any way to its construction, maintenance or repair.
(Ord. 87-27, § 270, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 10-99, passed 5-3-1999)
B-1 NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 155.160 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the B-1 Neighborhood Business District is to allow business
uses to a limited extent which are convenient to residential areas but do not
appreciably affect the surrounding area.
(Ord. 87-27, § 300, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.161 USE.
   Within the B-1 Business District the following uses and no other uses shall
be permitted:
   (A)
Accounting offices   Financial planning consultants
Advertising agencies Governmental offices
Answering services   Insurance offices
Antique shops        Medical offices
Architects offices   Non-profit corporate offices
Attorney offices     Novelty shops
Barber shops         Pressing, alteration & garment
Beauty shops         Private investigation
Cable TV offices     Private security
Chiropractic offices Psychologist
Credit agencies      Real estate sales office
Credit union offices Stockbrokers
Day care center      Title insurance companies
Dental offices       Travel agencies
Employment agencies  Shoe repair/leather goods repair
Engineering offices
 
   (B)   Accessory uses shall be allowed for all businesses.
(Ord. 87-27, § 301, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.162 CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Single business subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   Shall not have a usable floor area in excess of 2,000 square feet.
      (2)   No single building used for business shall have a greater usable
floor area of more than 3,000 square feet.
   (B)   One-family dwelling units subject to the requirements of the
Residential R-2 District.
   (C)   (1)   Attached one-family dwelling units subject to the following
conditions: Where a one-family dwelling unit is attached to or constructed
within a building containing the uses in §
155.161(A) and §
155.162(A), the following requirements must be met:
         (a)   Minimum floor area: 700 square feet.
         (b)   No more than one dwelling unit per building.
      (2)   Two-family dwelling units subject to the following conditions: A
two-family dwelling may be constructed over any business or office facility
containing the uses in §
155.161(A) provided the following requirement must be met:
         (a)   The dwelling units must be on the second story level.
         (b)   Minimum floor area per dwelling is 700 square feet.
         (c)   No more than two dwelling units per building.
   (D)   Churches, synagogues and temples for religious worship subject to the
following conditions:
      (1)   Minimum lot size: two acres.
      (2)   Minimum lot width at building set back line shall be 200 feet.
      (3)   Minimum set back requirements:
         (1)   Front: 30 feet from right-of-way.
         (2)   Side: 15 feet from side property line.
         (3)   Rear: 40 feet from rear property line.
   (E)   Rooming houses/boarding houses subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   The house may accept no more than four overnight guests for
compensation at any one time.
      (2)   The house may rent no more than three rooms.
      (3)   For purposes of advertising, there shall be no more than one sign
or identification plate and the sign or plate shall not exceed two square feet
in area.
      (4)   Off-street parking at the rate of one space per guest room and the
parking required for that dwelling unit.
      (5)   Plans must be approved by a representative of the State Fire
Marshal or the Bellville Village Fire Chief.
      (6)   Rooming houses shall be conducted by the resident with no
additional employees.
   (F)   Accessory uses.
   (G)   Parabolic/dish type antennae. See §
155.303.
   (H)   Parking of one semi tractor and semi trailer or commercial truck.
   (I)   Gasoline stations subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   Gasoline stations shall be limited to the sale of motor vehicle
fuel and oil and the secondary purpose of retail sales of food and
miscellaneous items used by the traveling public.
      (2)   Curb cuts for ingress and egress shall be limited to a specific
number as approved by the Planning Commission and the balance of the property
shall be barricaded from access to the streets.
      (3)   All curb cuts shall be at least 100 feet from the nearest
intersection.
      (4)   The minimum lot area shall only be 20,000 square feet.
      (5)   No inoperative motor vehicles shall be stored on the premises.
      (6)   The entire surface used for motor vehicle movement shall be paved
with asphalt or concrete.
      (7)   All pump islands shall be located at least 25 feet from the street
right-of-way.
      (8)   All buildings shall have a setback of at least 40 feet from the
front lot line and from any side lot line which abuts a public street. The
building setback line which does not abut a public street and the rear lot line
shall be 15 feet.
      (9)   All lighting shall be shielded from adjoining properties.
      (10)   One parking space shall be provided on the premises for each
employee and one space for each 200 square feet of floor area devoted to the
sale of non-automotive products. The space used for vehicle fueling shall not
be used to meet these parking requirements.
(Ord. 87-27, § 302, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 21-90, passed 7-3-1990; Ord. 31-96,
passed 8-19-1996)
§ 155.163 EXCLUDED USES.
   Notwithstanding the provision of §§
155.161 and
155.162, the following businesses shall not be permitted in a B-1 Neighborhood
Business District:
   (A)   Sale or repair of automobiles, used automobiles or truck parts,
trucks, trailers, campers, recreational vehicles, motor homes, motorcycles,
boats, farm equipment, construction machinery and industrial machines.
   (B)   Gasoline service stations.
   (C)   Hotels/motels.
   (D)   Trees, shrubs, plants, lawn and garden equipment and supplies.
   (E)   Warehouses, moving and storage business or truck terminal.
   (F)   Restaurants, taverns, or nightclubs.
   (G)   Fraternal, social, service or veterans organizations.
   (H)   Junkyards, garbage or rubbish haulers or recycling operations.
   (I)   Sewer or septic tank cleaning or repairing.
   (J)   Automobile wrecking or salvage yards.
   (K)   Indoor/outdoor recreational vehicles or motorcycle racing, etc.
   (L)   Funeral homes.
   (M)   Business or trade schools.
   (N)   Processing, manufacturing or assembly operations except as are
incidental to the sale of goods.
   (O)   Convenience food stores.
   (P)   Nursing homes, rest homes, convalescent homes/retirement centers.
   (Q)   Drive thru/carry out.
   (R)   House trailers and manufactured houses.
   (S)   Junk or unlicensed motor vehicles stored outside any building or
structure.
(Ord. 87-27, § 303, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 20-99, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 155.164 FENCING/SCREENING REQUIREMENTS.
   Fencing/screening shall be permitted in all areas of B-1 District subject to
the requirements of §
155.094 and §
155.306.
(Ord. 87-27, § 304, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.165 LIGHTING.
   All exterior lighting in the district shall be shielded so as not to shine
onto adjoining properties.
(Ord. 87-27, § 305, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.166 LOUDSPEAKERS.
   No loudspeakers shall be located outside of any building nor shall they be
permitted to be used inside any building in such a manner that they are
designed or intended to broadcast outside of the building.
(Ord. 87-27, § 306, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.167 GREENBELT REQUIREMENTS.
   All land within B-1 Neighborhood Business District which abuts a residential
district, or existing residential use shall have an obscuring greenbelt. See §
155.304.
(Ord. 87-27, § 307, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.168 ACCESS.
   All uses permitted in §
155.161(A) and §
155.162(A), (B), (C), (D), (E) and (F) shall have access directly onto an
arterial or collector street and all driveways shall exit onto such streets.
(Ord. 87-27, § 308, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.169 MAXIMUM BUILDING SIZE.
   All uses and conditionally permitted uses shall have no more than 25% of
their lot covered by building.
(Ord. 87-27, § 309, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.170 MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHTS.
   All buildings shall not exceed 25 feet in height or two stories in height
above the ground level except for a steeple, chimney, aerial or other
appurtenances.
(Ord. 87-27, § 310, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.171 SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
   All buildings shall meet the following set back requirements except where
otherwise specifically provided:
   (A)   Front: 30 feet from right-of-way.
   (B)   Side: six feet from side property lines, except those sides which are
adjacent to a residential district. A 25-foot setback shall be required and not
used for any other purpose on the side abutting the residential district.
   (C)   Rear: 30 feet from rear property line.
(Ord. 87-27, § 311, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.172 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   See §§
155.346 to
155.368.
(Ord. 87-27, § 312, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.173 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   See §§
155.320 to
155.333.
(Ord. 87-27, § 313, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.174 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   See §§
155.258 to
155.301.
(Ord. 87-27, § 314, passed 7-7-1987)
B-2 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 155.185 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the B-2 General Business District is to provide a zone for
the conduct of business uses of all types.
(Ord. 87-27, § 340, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.186 USE.
   Within the B-2 General Business District the following uses are permitted:
   (A)   All uses permitted in B-1 Business District under §
155.161.
   (B)   Retail stores primarily engaged in selling merchandise for personal or
household consumption and rendering services incidental to the sale of the
goods.
      (1)   General merchandise:
         (a)   Hardware stores.
         (b)   Department stores.
         (c)   Miscellaneous general merchandise stores.
      (2)   Food:
         (a)   Grocery stores.
         (b)   Meat and fish markets.
         (c)   Fruit stores and vegetable markets.
         (d)   Candy, nut and confectionary stores
         (e)   Dairy products stores.
         (f)   Retail bakeries.
         (g)   Miscellaneous food stores.
      (3)   Clothing, apparel, and accessory stores.
      (4)   Home furnishings, furniture and equipment.
      (5)   Restaurants; fraternal and social organizations.
      (6)   Miscellaneous retail:
         (a)   Drug stores.
         (b)   Florists.
         (c)   Miscellaneous retail stores, not elsewhere classified.
      (7)   Personal and consumer service.
         (a)   Beauty shops.
         (b)   Barber shops.
         (c)   Laundromats.
         (d)   Miscellaneous personal services.
   (C)   Funeral homes.
   (D)   Sexually oriented business as defined by §
155.201 provided:
      (1)   The parcel of land upon which the sexually oriented business is
located at a minimum of 500 feet from the nearest parcel of land containing a
school, church, funeral home or residence.
      (2)   The parcel of land upon which the sexually oriented business is
located is a minimum of 500 feet from any other parcel of land containing a
sexually oriented business.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to amend legislation on
Chapter 133, Sex Related Offenses, of this code of ordinances or otherwise make
any conduct legal which is illegal under that chapter.
(Ord. 87-27, §341, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 1896, passed 4-15-1996; Ord. 20-05,
passed 7-5-2005)
§ 155.187 CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USES.
   Within the B-2 Business District the following uses shall be conditionally
permitted:
   (A)   Gasoline service stations and automobile service repair garages
subject to regulations in §
155.190.
   (B)   Drive thru carryouts.
   (C)   Attached one-family dwelling units subject to the provisions of §
155.189.
   (D)   Rooming houses subject to the provisions of §
155.162(E).
   (E)   Parabolic/dish type antennae. See §
155.303.
   (F)   Parking of one semi-tractor and semitrailer or commercial truck.
   (G)   Billiard rooms.
   (H)   Sidewalk sales, carnivals, flea markets and similar uses subject to
the resolutions in §
155.200.
(Ord. 87-27, § 342, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 6-94, passed 5-16-1994; Ord. 1896,
passed 4-15-1996; Ord. 20-05, passed 7-5-2005)
§ 155.188 EXCLUDED USES.
   Notwithstanding §
155.186 within the B-2 General Business District the following uses shall not
be permitted:
   (A)   Automobile wrecking or salvage yards.
   (B)   Junkyards, garbage or rubbish haulers or recycling operations.
   (C)   Sewer or septic cleaning or repairing.
   (D)   Processing, manufacturing or assembly operations, except as are
incidental to the sale of goods.
   (E)   Churches, synagogues, and temples for religious worship.
   (F)   Junk or unlicensed motor vehicles stored outside any building or
structure.
   (G)   House trailers, industrial units and manufactured homes.
(Ord. 87-27, § 343, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.189 ATTACHED ONE-FAMILY DWELLING UNITS; CONDITIONS.
   A one-family dwelling unit shall be allowed in this district provided it
meets the following requirements:
   (A)   Minimum floor area of 800 square feet.
   (B)   No more than one dwelling unit shall be permitted per building.
   (C)   Each such dwelling unit must be attached to or constructed within a
building containing a business or office use.
   (D)   Accessory uses as permitted in the R-2 District.
(Ord. 87-27, § 344, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.190 GASOLINE SERVICE STATIONS.
   Whenever gasoline service stations are listed as a conditionally permitted
use within the village, the following requirements shall apply:
   (A)   Gasoline service stations shall be limited to the sale of motor
vehicle fuel, oil, tires, batteries, accessories and incidental repair work.
Such work shall not include body repair, painting, tire recapping, engine
rebuilding or overhauling.
   (B)   Curb cuts for ingress and egress shall be limited to a specific number
as approved by the Planning Commission and the balance of the property shall be
barricaded from access to the streets.
   (C)   All curb cuts shall be at least 100 feet from the nearest
intersection.
   (D)   The minimum lot area shall be 20,000 square feet.
   (E)   Service stations shall be shielded on all sides which abut onto a
residential district or existing residential use, except the street side, by an
obscuring greenbelt at least six feet in height, six feet in width and four
feet from property line.
   (F)   No inoperative motor vehicles shall be stored on the premises except
those which are presently being worked upon.
   (G)   The rental of trucks or trailers may also be carried on as part of the
gasoline service station business provided that the total lot shall be not less
than one acre.
   (H)   The entire surface used for motor vehicle movement or storage shall be
paved with asphalt or concrete.
   (I)   All pump islands shall be located at least 25 feet from the street
right of way.
   (J)   All buildings shall have a setback of at least 40 feet from the front
lot line and from any side lot line which abuts a public street. The building
setback line which does not abut a public street and the rear lot line shall be
15 feet.
   (K)   All lighting shall be shielded from adjoining properties.
   (L)   One parking space shall be provided on the premises for each employee
and one space for each 200 square feet of floor area devoted to the sale of
non-automotive products. The space used for vehicle fueling shall not be used
to meet these parking requirements.
   (M)   No used motor vehicle parts including tires shall be stored outside of
any building.
(Ord. 87-27, § 345, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.191 FENCING/SCREENING REQUIREMENT.
   Fencing/screening shall be permitted in all areas of B-2 District subject to
the requirements of §
155.094 and §
155.306.
(Ord. 87-27, § 346, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.192 LIGHTING.
   All exterior lighting in the B-2 District shall be shielded so as not to
shine on R-1, R-2, or B-1 properties located within 40 feet of property lines.
(Ord. 87-27, § 347, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.193 LOUDSPEAKERS.
   No loudspeakers shall be located outside of any building nor shall they be
permitted to be used inside any building in such a manner that they are
designed or intended to broadcast outside of the buildings.
(Ord. 87-27, § 348, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.194 GREENBELT REQUIREMENTS.
   All land within a B-2 District which abuts a residential district or
existing residential use shall have an obscuring greenbelt. See §
155.304.
(Ord. 87-27, § 349, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.195 MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT.
   All buildings within a B-2 District shall not exceed more than two stories
or 25 feet from ground level excluding water tanks, aerials, chimneys, and
other appurtenances that may exceed that height.
(Ord. 87-27, § 350, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.196 SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
   All buildings in §§
155.186 and
155.187 shall meet the following setback requirements:
   (A)   Front: 30 feet from right-of-way.
   (B)   Side: no setback required except those sides which are adjacent or
abuts a residential district. A 25-foot setback shall be required and not used
for any other purpose on the side abutting the Residential District.
   (C)   Rear: 30 feet from property line.
(Ord. 87-27, § 351, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.197 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   See §§
155.346 to
155.368.
(Ord. 87-27, § 352, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.198 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   See §§
155.320 to
155.333.
(Ord. 87-27, § 353, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.199 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   See §§
155.285 to
155.301.
(Ord. 87-27, § 354, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.200 SIDEWALK SALES, CARNIVALS, FLEA MARKETS.
   Whenever sidewalk sales, carnivals or flea markets are listed as a
conditionally permitted use within the village, the following requirements
shall apply:
   (A)   The location of the use must be drawn and provided by a site plan.
   (B)   The same use can operate no more than four consecutive days in any
calendar year on any one lot or parcel.
   (C)   Off-street parking must be provided or be otherwise available so as to
permit the free flow of traffic on public streets.
   (D)   The hours of operation shall be between the hours of 9:00 a.m. to 10:
00 p.m.
   (E)   If the use is to be operated on an unimproved site, then adequate dust
control must be provided to prevent a nuisance to adjoining landowners.
(Ord. 87-27, § 355, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 6-94, passed 5-16-1994)
§ 155.201 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   Whenever sexually oriented businesses are listed as a permitted use within
the village, the following definitions and requirements shall apply: As used in
this section, the following definitions shall apply.
   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin-operated or slug-operated or electronically, electrically, or mechanically
controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other image-
producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per
machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by the depicting or describing of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial establishment which
utilized 25% or more of its retail selling area for the purpose of sale or
rental for any form of consideration any one or more of the following:
      (1)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes or video reproductions,
slides, or other visual representations which depict or describe specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or
      (2)   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia which are designed for use in
connection with specified sexual activities.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant, or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity; or
      (2)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities; or
      (3)   Film, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment which:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which
are characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas; and has a sign visible from the
public right-of-way which advertises the availability of this adult type of
photographic reproductions; or
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than ten hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to sub-rent the room
for a period of time that is less than ten hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where, for any form
of consideration, films, motions pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar
photographic reproductions are regularly shown which are characterized by the
depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity
or live performances which are characterized by the exposure of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes, for a fee, tip, or other consideration.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who appears in a state of nudity
or displays specified anatomical areas is provided to be observed, sketched,
drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by other
persons who pay money or any form of consideration.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its primary business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
      (1)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex; or
      (2)   Activities between male and female person s and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore or adult video
store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture theater, adult theater,
escort agency, nude model studio, or sexual encounter center.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Human genitals in a state of sexual arousal.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Means and includes any of the following:
      (1)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual of simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy;
      (3)   Masturbation, actual or simulated; or
      (4)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (1) through (3) in this definition.
(Ord. 87-27, § 356, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 18-96, passed 4-15-1996; Ord. 20-05,
passed 7-5-2005)
B-3 HIGHWAY SERVICE BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 155.215 PURPOSE.
   The Highway Service Business Districts will permit uses that are primarily
aimed at servicing the traveling public, promoting commerce beneficial to the
community, and providing facilities and traffic patterns that are better
located outside the central retail and residential areas of the village.
(Ord. 87-27, § 365.1, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 18--96, passed 4-15-1996; Ord. 6-
2014, passed 2-4-2014)
§ 155.216 PERMITTED USES.
   The following are permitted uses:
   (A)   Hotels and motels.
   (B)   Restaurants including those having the characteristics of a drive-in.
   (C)   Health care and medical services.
(Ord. 87-27, §365.2, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 18--96, passed 4-15-1996; Ord. 6-
2014, passed 2-4-2014)
§ 155.217 CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USES.
   The following are conditionally permitted uses:
   (A)   Gasoline stations, subject to the conditions at §
155.218.
   (B)   Recreational and fitness uses shall be permitted subject to the
conditions hereinafter imposed:
      (1)   All motorized uses are prohibited, whether indoor or outdoor.
      (2)   Access to and from the site shall be provided by an arterial
thoroughfare or by an access road connected to the arterial thoroughfare or by
an access road connected to the arterial thoroughfare as sited and approved by
the Village Engineer.
      (3)   The provisions of §§
155.219,
155.220,
155.221,
155.222,
155.223,
155.224,
155.225,
155.226 and
155.409 shall apply.
   (C)   Libraries, museums and non-profit cultural institutions shall be
permitted subject to the conditions hereinafter imposed:
      (1)   All activities must be located in buildings having a minimum square
footage of 2,000s quare feet on the first floor.
      (2)   Access to and from the site shall be provided by an arterial
thoroughfare or by an existing access road connected to the arterial
thoroughfare or by an access road connected to the arterial thoroughfare as
sited and approved by the Village Engineer.
      (3)   The provisions of §§
155.219,
155.220,
155.221,
155.222,
155.223,
155.224 and
155.409.
   (D)   Retail of the following types subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   Conditional retail uses:
         (a)   General merchandise.
         (b)   Wholesale or specialty food.
         (c)   Clothing, apparel, and accessory stores.
         (d)   Home furnishings, furniture and equipment.
         (e)   Consumer electronics.
         (f)   Recreational supplies and sporting goods.
         (g)   Hobbies and crafts.
         (h)   Books.
         (i)   Agricultural and pet supplies.
         (j)   Construction equipment, supplies, and lumber.
      (2)   Conditions of retail use within the B-3 Highway Service Business
District:
         (a)   Retail square footage, minimum. A single retail use shall have a
minimum square footage of 5,000 square feet.
         (b)   Retail square footage, maximum. Buildings, or combinations of
buildings for retail use, shall have an aggregate square footage of less than
30,000 square feet.
         (c)   Proposals for retail uses exceeding the square footage
limitation above shall be subject to the following additional conditions:
            1.   In addition to the procedures related to traffic impact
studies elsewhere in this code, the application for retail use exceeding the
above square footage limitation must be accompanied by a report, prepared by a
professional engineer licensed in Ohio. The report must identify the existing
and proposed use and the capacity of publicly-owned utility infrastructure
impacted by the proposed property development. The report shall include an
analysis of those impacts and shall include recommendations for mitigating
those impacts. The report and recommendation shall be of sufficient detail to
permit the Planning Commission, in consultation with the engineer for the
village, to determine if the proposal adequately addresses said impacts. This
report shall accompany the traffic impact study and shall be subject to the
same time schedule. Likewise, the Planning Commission is authorized to require
improvements designed to mitigate the impact of the proposed use on public
utilities prior to granting a permit.
            2.   Without regard to the anticipated trip ends per peak hour, the
procedure provided in this zoning ordinance for traffic impact studies shall
apply and a traffic impact study as described therein shall be required.
         (d)   There shall be no more than one retail use per parcel of land
unless shared access routes are to be utilized. For the purpose of determining
whether such multiple retail uses will require a traffic impact study, the sum
of the trip ends per peak hour of the individual uses shall be used.
         (e)   The entire surface used for motor vehicle movement or parking
shall be paved with asphalt or concrete.
   (E)   The following industrial uses, subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   Conditional Industrial uses:
         (a)   Manufacturing and assembly of products from raw materials or
component parts except as otherwise expressly prohibited.
         (b)   The incidental use of premises which are primarily manufacturing
in nature for offices, storage or shipping in connection with the manufacturing
process.
         (c)   Truck terminal.
         (d)   Warehouses.
         (e)   Storage and transfer facilities.
         (f)   Wholesale storage and distribution facilities.
         (g)   Accessory uses to any of the above.
         (h)   Parabolic/dish type antennae. See §
155.303.
      (2)   Conditions of Industrial use inside the B-3 Highway Service
Business District:
         (a)   Noise, odors, vibration. No industrial use shall create noise,
odors or vibrations that can be detectible by a person from 25 feet or greater
outside of a building. Additionally, any loading dock or other area designed
for the use by commercial trucks shall be located as far as practicable from
any hotel or restaurant.
         (b)   Greenbelt; landscaping. Prior to the issuance of a permit for an
industrial use, the person requesting the permit must supply the Planning
Commission with landscaping plans for approval by the Planning Commission to
ensure an attractive frontage on public highways.
         (c)    Hours of shipments and deliveries. In order to protect the
services provided to the traveling public in the Highway Service Business
District, the hours of shipments and deliveries to and from any industrial use
shall be limited to between 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
         (d)   Paving. The entire surface used for motor vehicle movement or
parking shall be paved with asphalt or concrete.
(Ord. 87-27, § 366, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 18--96, passed 4-15-1996; Ord. 17-02,
passed 6-10-2002; Ord. 32-03, passed 10-6-2003; Ord. 6-2014, passed 2-4-2014)
§ 155.218 GASOLINE STATIONS.
   Whenever gasoline stations are listed as a conditionally permitted use, the
following requirement shall apply:
   (A)   Gasoline stations shall be limited to the sale of motor vehicle fuel
and oil and car washes and the secondary purpose of retail sales of food and
miscellaneous items used by the traveling public.
   (B)   Curb cuts for ingress and egress shall be limited to a specific number
as approved by the Planning Commission and the balance of the property shall be
barricaded from access to the streets.
   (C)   All curb cuts shall be at least 100 feet from the nearest
intersection.
   (D)   The minimum lot area shall be 20,000 square feet.
   (E)   No inoperative motor vehicles shall be stored on the premises.
   (F)   The entire surface used for motor vehicle movement shall be paved with
asphalt or concrete.
   (G)   All pump islands shall be located at least 25 feet from the street
right of way.
   (H)   All buildings shall have a setback of at least 40 feet from the front
lot line and from any side lot line which abuts a public street. The building
setback line which does not abut a public street and the rear lot line shall be
15 feet.
   (I)   All lighting shall be shielded from adjoining properties.
   (J)   One parking space shall be provided on the premises for each employee
and one space for each 200 square feet of floor area devoted to the sale of
non-automotive products. The space used for vehicle fueling shall not be used
to meet these parking requirements.
(Ord. 87-27, § 367, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 18-96, passed 4-15-1996; Ord. 23-06,
passed 5-15-2006)
§ 155.219 LIGHTING.
   All exterior lighting shall be shielded so as not to shine on adjoining
properties.
(Ord. 87-27, § 368, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 18-96, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 155.220 LOUDSPEAKERS.
   No loudspeakers shall be located outside of any building nor shall they be
permitted to be used inside any building in such a manner that they are
designed to intended to broadcast outside of the buildings.
(Ord. 87-27, §369, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 18-96, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 155.221 GREENBELT REQUIREMENTS.
   All land within a B-3 District which abuts a residential district or
existing residential use shall have an obscuring greenbelt.
(Ord. 87-27, § 370, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 18-96, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 155.222 MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT.
   All buildings within a B-3 District shall not exceed more than three stories
or 38 feet from ground level excluding water tanks, aerials, chimneys and other
appurtenances that may exceed that height.
(Ord. 87-27, § 371, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 18-96, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 155.223 SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
   All buildings in §§
155.216 and
155.217 shall meet the following setback requirements:
   (A)   Front: 30 feet from right-of-way, except along State Route 97, where
the minimum front setback shall be 50 feet from right-of-way.
   (B)   Side: 20 feet from property line.
   (C)   Rear: 30 feet from property line.
(Ord. 87-27, § 372, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 18--96, passed 4-15-1996; Ord. 6-
2014, passed 2-4-2014)
§ 155.224 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   See §§
155.346 to
155.368.
(Ord. 87-27, § 373, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 18-96, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 155.225 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   See §§
155.320 to
155.333.
(Ord. 87-27, § 374, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 18-96, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 155.226 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   See §§
155.285 to
155.301.
(Ord. 87-27, § 375, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 18-96, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 155.227 DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Driveways: spacing. 
      (1)   New driveways shall have minimum spacing from the nearest existing
driveway according to the speed limit applicable on the highway into which the
cut is made, according to the following drive spacing schedule:
         (a)   Where the speed limit is 35 mph or less, one driveway per 250
feet.
         (b)   Where the speed limit is 40 mph, one driveway per 305 feet.
         (c)   Where the speed limit is 45 mph, one driveway per 360 feet.
         (d)   Where the speed limit is 50 mph, one driveway per 425 feet.
      (2)   The Planning Commission may grant a variance of this requirement
only in instances where a Traffic Impact Study as described below has been
created and considered. It is understood and intended that shared access routes
may be required to comply with this section.
   (B)   Driveways; number. Each lot or contiguous set of lots of common
ownership shall have only one driveway, unless a traffic impact study as
described below has been created and considered and it is determined by the
Planning Commission that multiple driveways will enhance safety of travelers
and visitors to the property for which multiple driveways are being requested.
   (C)   Variances. Variances in the limitations in this section may be granted
in cases of hardship and only with respect to parcels the borders of which
remain unchanged from the date of the original passage of this section and that
also had no existing driveway at the date of the original passage of this
section.
(Ord. 6-2014, passed 2-4-2014)
§ 155.228 TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDIES.
   (A)   Traffic impact study, when required. For those proposed uses for which
it is reasonably expected will generate 100 trip ends per peak hour or more, or
where otherwise required under this zoning ordinance, a traffic impact study as
described herein must be created at the expense of the party seeking a use
permit (the “permit seeker”) to determine what improvements, if any, shall be
required prior to occupation of the premises. Alternately, for developments
generating less than 100 trip ends per peak hour, an auxiliary lane analysis
may be required to determine if separate turn lanes are needed to facilitate
development traffic at an unsignalized access point. The expense of the
auxiliary turn lane analysis shall be borne by the permit seeker.
   (B)   Procedure for traffic impact studies.
      (1)   The traffic impact study shall be created in conformity with the
then-current State Highway Access Management Manual published by the Ohio
Department of Transportation (the ODOT Manual).
      (2)   Upon presentment of a complete traffic impact study or auxiliary
turn lane analysis, the Planning Commission shall have 60 days to accept the
traffic impact study or to notify the permit seeker that the traffic impact
study does not conform to the ODOT Manual, or requires revision based upon
review by the village, which notice shall refer to specific shortcomings.
      (3)   Upon acceptance of a traffic impact study or auxiliary turn lane
analysis, the Planning Commission shall set upon the agenda for a meeting no
less than 15 days from acceptance of the traffic impact study to no more than
60 days from acceptance of the traffic impact study the question of what
improvements, if any, the permit requester shall be required to make to address
any degradation of service anticipated by the traffic impact study. The permit
seeker shall be invited to attend and participate in these discussions.
However, the final decision on the required improvements shall be made by the
Planning Commission.
      (4)   Any improvements required under this section must be completed
prior to occupancy of the structure, and it is requested that other government
regulatory bodies withhold any occupancy permits or certificates until such
agreed-upon improvements are made.
(Ord. 6-2014, passed 2-4-2014)
§ 155.229 EXCLUDED USES.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions related to the B-3 district, the
following businesses shall not be permitted in a B-3 Highway Service Business
District:
   (A)   Garbage or rubbish haulers or recycling operations.
   (B)   Sewer or septic tank cleaning or repairing.
   (C)   Asphalt and concrete plants.
   (D)   Processes involving heating of plastics and/or foams.
   (E)   Processes of stamping that can be detected by a person of vibration or
audible sound from 25 feet outside the building.
   (F)   The provision for them being provided for and regulated elsewhere
within the village, sexually oriented businesses are excluded from the B-
3 Highway Service Business District.
   (G)   Distribution of bulk propane or bulk combustible fuels.
   (H)   All excluded uses set forth in §
155.252.
(Ord. 6-2014, passed 2-4-2014)
PLANNED COMMERCIAL AND OFFICE DISTRICT (PC)
§ 155.240 PLANNED COMMERCIAL AND OFFICE DISTRICT (PC).
   (A)   Purpose. In order to promote the general public welfare, to encourage
the efficient use of land and resources and to promote greater efficiency in
providing public and utility services and to encourage innovation in planning
and building the following regulations shall be applicable to commercial and
office developments.
   (B)   Application. This provisions of this chapter shall apply to all lands
within the village which are to be used for office and/or commercial purposes
and for parcels greater than 20 acres. The area of a district must be an
integral tract. It cannot be a collection of isolated pieces of land.
   (C)   Permitted uses. Within the Planned Commercial and Office District (PC)
the following uses, developed in strict compliance with the approved
development plan and standards shall be permitted:
      (1)   Commercial and office establishments of all types developed and
maintained within an organized development of associated commercial activities
in accordance with the approved development plan.
      (2)   Community facilities such as libraries, offices or educational
facilities operated by a public agency or government.
      (3)   Commercial establishments normally associated with and intended to
service the traveling public with hotels, motels, short-term residences,
service stations, restaurants, and other uses of a recreational, educational,
cultural or entertainment nature or character.
      (4)   Apartments or dwellings which are planned to be integrated into the
commercial development according to a development plan provided such apartments
or residences do not exceed 10% of the gross area of the development.
   (D)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   No use not specifically authorized by the express terms of this
subchapter shall be permitted.
      (2)   Outdoor storage of inoperable, unlicensed or unused motor vehicles
are prohibited. The vehicles if stored on the premises shall be enclosed within
a building so as not to be visible from any adjoining property or public road.
      (3)   No trailer of any type, no boats, no motor homes and no equipment
of any type shall be parked in front of the front building line on any parcel
within this district. If a dwelling is located on the lot the building line
shall be considered to be the front wall of the dwelling even if the dwelling
is located behind the minimum building line established by this code or the
restrictions on the plat or subdivision.
      (4)   No trash, debris, unused property or discarded materials shall be
permitted to accumulate on any lot or portion thereof which creates an eyesore,
hazard or nuisance to the neighborhood or general public.
   (E)   Procedure. In addition to any other procedures set out in this chapter
all applications for amendments to the zoning map to rezoning lands to this
district shall follow the procedures hereinafter set forth:
      (1)   Application. The owner(s) or lessee(s) of lots within the village
may request that the zoning map be amended to include such tracts in the
Planned Commercial District in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Development. Six copies of the development plan shall be submitted
with the application, which plan shall include in the text and map form:
         (a)   The proposed size and location of the Planned Commercial
District.
         (b)   The general development character of the tract including the
specific limitations or controls to be placed on commercial, office,
residential and related uses, with probable lot sizes and other development
features including landscaping.
         (c)   Architectural design criteria for all structures and criteria
for proposed signs with proposed control procedures.
         (d)   The proposed provisions for water, sanitary sewer and surface
drainage with engineering feasibility studies or other evidence of
reasonableness.
         (e)   The proposed traffic patterns showing public and private road
and other transportation facilities, including their relationship to existing
conditions, topographically and otherwise. Any development utilizing a private
road must have a minimum width of 60 feet fronting on a public road.
         (f)   The relationship of the proposed development to existing and
probable uses of surrounding areas during and after the development timetable.
         (g)   The proposed time-table or schedule for development of the site
including street, transportation facilities, building, utilities and other
facilities.
         (h)   If the proposed timetable for development includes developing
the land in phases, all phases to be developed after the first, which in no
event shall be less than ten acres or the whole tract (whichever is smaller),
shall be fully described in textural form in a manner calculated to give
village officials definitive guidelines for approval of future phases.
      (3)   Criteria for approval. In approving an application for a Planned
Commercial District, the reviewing authorities shall determine:
         (a)   If the proposed development is consistent in all respects with
the purpose, intent and applicable standards of this chapter.
         (b)   If the proposed development is in conformity with this chapter
and/or comprehensive plan or portion thereof as it may apply.
         (c)   If the proposed development advances the general public welfare
of the village and the immediate vicinity.
      (4)   Procedure for rezone. The procedure outlined in R.C. § 713.12 shall
be followed to consider an application for a rezone to a Planned Commercial
District. Approval of the application pursuant to that section shall constitute
a rezone of that land in accordance with the applicant's development plan.
      (5)   Administration of the Development plan. Administration of the
development plan shall be performed by the Village Planning Commission in
accordance with the following procedures:
         (a)   Administrative review; minor deviations. All plats, construction
drawings and other necessary documents shall be submitted to the Village
Planning Commission or their designated technical advisors for administrative
review and approval before filing to insure substantial compliance with the
development plan as approved. Minor changes in the location of buildings,
structures, streets or parking areas may be approved without public notice by
the Village Planning Commission.
         (b)   Major deviations and public hearing.
            1.   Any major deviation from the approved development plan shall
not be considered by the Village Council until the owner of the property makes
a detailed written application to the Village Council. The application shall
specifically detail the changes requested and the reasons for the change. A
major deviation shall include but not be limited to changes in use and/or
character of the development, increases of density of more than 10% and
increases in numbers of structures. Any change in land use not otherwise
permitted by this chapter in a Planned Commercial District shall require a
rezone of the land.
            2.   Upon receipt of any application for a major deviation from the
approved development plan the Village Council shall forward the application to
the Village Planning Commission. The Commission shall make a written
recommendation for the approval, modification, or denial of the application.
Upon receipt of the Commission's recommendation, the Village Council shall hold
a public meeting on the application. The public meeting shall be held within
ten days of receipt of the Commission's recommendation. Notice of the public
meeting shall be published once at least three days before the date of the
meeting. Within 20 days of the meeting the Village Council shall either approve
or disapprove the landowner's application. The applicant can amend his or her
application at anytime prior to the Village Council's vote. Approval of the
application shall require a majority vote of the Council. An applicant can
submit subsequent applications for major deviations at anytime provided there
is a reasonable and material amendment to the preceding application.
            3.   The Village Council shall not conduct the meetings in a quasi-
judicial manner wherein the opportunity for hearings and the introduction of
evidence is permitted. The decisions of the Village Council shall be final and
not appealable.
      (6)   Plat required.
         (a)   In the Planned Commercial District (PC), no use shall be
established or changed and no structure shall be constructed or altered until
the required subdivision plat has been prepared and recorded in accordance with
village's subdivision regulations.
         (b)   The subdivision plat shall be in accord with the approved
development plan and shall include:
            1.   Site arrangement, including building setback lines and space
to be built upon with the site; water, fire hydrants, sewer, all underground
public utility installations, including sanitary sewers, surface drainage and
waste disposal facilities; easements, access points to public rights-of-way,
parking areas and pedestrian ways; and land reserved for non-highway service
use with indication of the natures of that use.
            2.   Deed restrictions, covenants, easements and encumbrances to be
used to control the use, development and maintenance of the land, the
improvements thereon, and the activities of occupants, including those
applicable to areas within the tract to be developed for residential uses.
      (7)   Default. If construction of any building has not been commenced
within three years after approval of the initial development plan, approval of
the plan shall expire, unless an extension of the time limit has been approved
by a majority of the Council.
   (F)   Development standards. In addition to any other provisions of this
chapter the following standards for arrangement and development of lands and
buildings are required in the Planned Commercial District.
      (1)   Lot width and size. Any development under the standards of this
chapter shall have a minimum acreage not less than 20 acres. No minimum lot
width or size shall be required in this district; however, all lands shall be
accessible by means of a duly dedicated public roadway or private roadway
constructed in accordance with the specifications prescribed by the Village
Engineer and the village subdivision regulations. All parcels shall be adequate
in size to provide the yard space, landscaping and off-street parking as herein
required.
      (2)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Side yard. There shall be no required side yard setback between
businesses which are located in the same building, but there shall be a minimum
of an eight-foot setback between any building and the side yard line which
shall not be used for any other purpose. If the side yard abuts a Residential
District or existing residential use, the minimum side yard setback on that
side shall be 30 feet which shall not be used for any other purpose.
         (b)   Rear yard. Rear yard setbacks shall be a minimum of 30 feet or
20% of the total depth of the lot whichever is less, but in no event, less than
ten feet. If a rear yard abuts a residential district or existing residential
use, the minimum rear yard setback shall not be used for any other purpose and
shall be maintained as green space only and planted with grass, trees, shrubs
or flowers.
         (c)   Front yard. Front yard setbacks shall be a minimum of 30 feet.
      (3)   Building heights. No building within this district shall exceed 40
feet in height. This height restriction may be extended by the Village Council
at such time the Township Fire Chief warrants that fire apparatus is in service
that provides fire safety to buildings of greater height.
      (4)   Landscaping. All yards, front, rear, and side shall be landscaped.
The landscape plans shall be submitted with the development plan. The following
provisions shall apply to the landscape plan:
         (a)   As used in this section LIVING LANDSCAPE MATERIALS includes
grass, ground cover, vines, shrubs, trees, hedges, and perennial flowers.
         (b)   Non-living landscape materials shall include crushed brick, pea
gravel, beach pebbles, flagstone, sand, ornamental stones, boulders, bricks, or
crushed brick.
            1.   Landscaping composed of living plant materials shall be used
in an area equal to at least 10% of the minimum front yard setback area, but
may be located anywhere between the road right-of-way and the principal
building.
            2.   Except to the extent that the balance of the front yard
setback area is used for parking, driveways, maneuvering lanes or sidewalks as
otherwise permitted or required under this chapter the remainder of the front
yard setback area shall be landscaped with either living or non-living
landscaped materials.
         (c)   No bare earth shall be permitted to be exposed after the project
is completed.
         (d)   Common or naturally occurring weeds shall not be permitted as
part of the landscape plan.
         (e)   No landscape materials which are placed within ten feet of the
street right-of-way shall exceed 24 inches in height.
         (f)   All landscape materials shall be installed in a manner which is
in accordance with acceptable construction planting practices.
         (g)   Landscape materials approved in the site plan shall be installed
within 12 months of the approval of the site plan.
         (h)   The property owner shall be responsible for the continues proper
maintenance of all landscape materials and shall keep them so as to present a
neat and attractive appearance.
         (i)   All unhealthy and dead plant material shall be replaced during
the next planting season.
      (5)   Signs. Signs identifying uses within this district shall be
constructed and placed in conformity with the provisions of §§
155.345 to
155.368 below and shall be approved as part of the development plan.
      (6)   Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided at the time of
construction of the main structure or building. The parking plan shall include
a plan that addresses ingress and egress from the property as well as traffic
control and impact on adjoining and abutting parcels as these relate to traffic
safety and the reasonable movement of traffic. The standards set forth in §§
155.320 to
155.333 below shall be followed.
      (7)   Lighting. 
         (a)   Unreasonable illumination. No area lighting or lighting of
buildings shall be permitted which causes unreasonable illumination of adjacent
property.
         (b)   General requirements. For the purposes of this section, the
following provisions shall apply. All lighting shall be controlled in such a
way as to not shine up into the sky or onto any neighboring properties.
Examples of ways in which this shall be accomplished are:
            1.   Use of fully shielded cut-off fixtures;
            2.   Directing light fixtures downward rather than upward;
            3.    Shielding the light in such a way that the light emitting
portion of the fixture cannot be seen at a reasonable distance.
      (8)   Service/loading areas. When any use within this district requires
the pick up or delivery of merchandise or supplies, an adequate loading area
for such activity shall be provided on the lot occupied by the use. No such
loading area shall be located on any public street or alley. The loading area,
as provided shall be adequate in size to accommodate tractor-trailer (semi)
units with adequate room to permit entry to the loading area without
interfering with traffic on adjacent streets or highways. Open service areas
shall be screened or designed to effectively screen their visibility from
adjoining streets or buildings.
      (9)   Construction and maintenance of improvements within right-of-way.
The construction and maintenance of all improvements behind the curb line or
the edge of pavement including, but not limited to drainage improvements,
landscaping improvements, sidewalks and/or driveway approaches shall be the
responsibility of the abutting property owner.
      (10)   Drainage channels. All drainage channels shall be maintained or be
relocated so as to avoid flooding or damage to adjoining properties from
surface waters.
(Ord. 87-27, § 385, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 9-97, passed 2-3-1997)
I-1 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 155.250 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of an area within the village where manufacturing, assembling
and processing of raw materials or parts can occur without detrimental effect
upon the balance of the village. It shall also provide an area where the
transfer and storage of goods can occur.
(Ord. 87-27, § 400, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.251 USE.
   The following uses shall be permitted in the I-1 Industrial District:
   (A)   Manufacturing and assemble of products from raw materials or component
parts except as otherwise expressly prohibited.
   (B)   The incidental use of premises which are primarily manufacturing in
nature for offices, storage or shipping in connection with the manufacturing
process.
   (C)   Truck terminal.
   (D)   Warehouses.
   (E)   Storage and transfer facilities.
   (F)   Wholesale storage and distribution facilities.
   (G)   Accessory uses to any of the above.
   (H)   Parabolic/dish type antennae. See §
155.303.
   (I)   Sexually oriented business as defined by §
155.201 provided:
      (1)   That the parcel of land upon which the sexually oriented business
is located at a minimum of 500 feet from the nearest parcel of land containing
a school, church, funeral home or residence.
      (2)   That the parcel of land upon which the sexually oriented business
is located is a minimum of 500 feet from any other parcel of land containing a
sexually oriented business.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to amend Chapter 133, Sex
Related Offenses, of this code of ordinances or otherwise make any conduct
legal which is illegal under that chapter.
   (J)   Drive-thru carryouts.
(Ord. 87-27, § 401, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 19-05, passed 7-5-2005; Ord. 20-05,
passed 7-5-2005)
§ 155.252 EXCLUDED USES.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter the following uses are
determined to be inconsistent with the proper use of land within this village
and shall not be permitted in any use district.
   (A)   Manufacture or storage of explosives including fireworks or matches.
   (B)   Manufactures of fertilizer.
   (C)   Junkyards, scrap yards or motor vehicle wrecking yards.
   (D)   Slaughter houses.
   (E)   Asphalt or tile manufacture.
   (F)   Brick or tile manufacture.
   (G)   Cement, plaster or mortar manufacture.
   (H)   Creosote manufacture.
   (I)   Fat rendering or production of animal or vegetable products by boiling
or distillation.
   (J)   Garbage and waste disposal plants or incinerators.
   (K)   Petroleum refineries.
   (L)   Paper, pulp, cardboard and building board manufacture.
   (M)   Roofing material manufacture.
   (N)   Solid waste, hazardous waste or radioactive waste disposal facilities.
   (O)   Pesticide manufacture.
   (P)   Rubber manufacture or reclamation.
   (Q)   Stockyards.
   (R)   Tanning, curing or processing of hides or animal skins.
   (S)   Gas and oil wells.
   (T)   House trailers, industrial units and manufactured homes.
   (U)   Junk or unlicensed motor vehicles stored outside any building or
structure.
(Ord. 87-27, § 402, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.253 FENCING/SCREENING.
   Parcels within the I-1 Industrial District shall have, in addition to the
required setbacks, a six-foot high obscuring fence along all sides of the
property, except the front which abuts a residential district. This fence shall
be constructed no closer to the front property line than the minimum setbacks
line along the sides of property. In no instance shall any fence contain barbed
wire, electric current or charge of electricity.
(Ord. 87-27, § 403, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 43-04, passed 7-19-2004)
§ 155.254 GREENBELT REQUIREMENTS.
   All land within an I-1 District which abuts a Residential District, B-
1 District or residential use must provide an obscuring greenbelt. See §
155.304.
(Ord. 87-27, § 404, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.255 LIGHTING.
   All exterior lighting in the district shall be shielded so as not to shine
onto the adjoining R-1, R-2, B-1, or B-2 Districts or properties.
(Ord. 87-27, § 405, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.256 LOUDSPEAKERS.
   Loudspeakers shall be permitted on the outside of buildings, but must meet
the following requirements: Speakers must be maintained at a level that does
not broadcast onto other properties.
(Ord. 87-27, § 406, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.257 MINIMUM LOT SIZE.
   The minimum lot size within the I-1 Industrial District shall be 20,000
square feet.
(Ord. 87-27, § 407, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.258 MINIMUM LOT WIDTH.
   The minimum lot width in an I-1 Industrial District shall be 200 feet.
(Ord. 87-27, § 408, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.259 MAXIMUM LOT WIDTH.
   All buildings within an I-1 Industrial District shall not exceed more than
40 feet in height above ground level except for chimneys, aerials, or
appurtenances.
(Ord. 87-27, § 409, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.260 SETBACK.
   (A)   Front: 50 feet from right-of-way.
   (B)   Side: 20 feet from property line, except those sides which are
adjacent to a residential district. A 30-foot setback shall be required and not
used for any other purpose on the side abutting the Residential District.
   (C)   Rear: 50 feet from property line.
(Ord. 87-27, § 410, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.261 OUTDOOR STORAGE.
   Raw materials, finished products, work in process, machinery or equipment
may not be stored outside of an enclosed structure except in the side or rear
yards. No storage shall be allowed on the areas required by §
155.260 as rear and side yard setback area. Any such materials must be hidden
by an appropriate obscuring fence so that they are not visible from adjacent
properties or the public street upon which the building is located. The area of
outside storage shall not exceed 25% of the building area.
(Ord. 87-27, § 411, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.262 SIGN REGULATION.
   See §§
155.346 to
155.368.
(Ord. 87-27, § 412, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.263 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   See §§
155.320 to
155.333.
(Ord. 87-27, § 413, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.264 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   See §§
155.285 to
155.301.
(Ord. 87-27, § 414, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.265 NEW AND USED MOTOR VEHICLE SALES.
   The sale of new and used motor vehicles shall be permitted subject to the
following requirements:
   (A)   Curb cuts for ingress and egress shall be limited to a specific number
as approved by the Planning Commission and the balance of the property shall be
barricaded from access to the streets.
   (B)   All curb cuts shall be at least 100 feet from the nearest
intersection.
   (C)   The minimum lot area for outdoor sales shall be 2,000 square feet. The
maximum number of motor vehicles to be displayed outside shall be 15.
   (D)   No inoperative motor vehicles shall be stored on the premises.
   (E)   The entire surface used for motor vehicles movement shall be paved
with asphalt or concrete.
   (F)   All buildings shall have a setback of at least 40 feet from the front
lot line and from any side lot line which abuts a public street. The building
setback line which does not abut a public street and the rear lot line shall be
15 feet.
   (G)   All lighting shall be shielded from adjoining properties and from
passing motorists.
   (H)   One parking space shall be provided on the premises for each employee
and one space for each 600 square feet of floor area devoted to the sale of
motor vehicles.
(Ord. 87-27, § 415, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 02-05, passed 1-17-2005)
§ 155.266 AUTOMOBILE REPAIR.
   Automobile repair shall be a conditionally permitted use subject to the
following requirements:
   (A)   No inoperative motor vehicle shall be stored on te premises except
those being repaired and for no longer than ten business days.
   (B)   All repairs must be conducted inside a suitable structure or building.
   (C)   Hours of operation shall be limited to 8:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.
   (D)   All exterior lighting shall be shielded away from adjoining
properties.
   (E)   All automotive parts shall be stored inside an enclosed structure or
building.
   (F)   One parking space shall be provided for each employee and one space or
each 200 square feet of floor area devoted to automobile repair.
(Ord. 47-04, passed 8-16-2004)
U-1 UTILITY DISTRICT
§ 155.275 U-1 UTILITY DISTRICT.
   (A)   The purpose of a Utility District is to allow the location of certain
utility structures to occur without detrimental effect upon the balance of the
various zoning districts within the village and particularly located away from
residential districts, existing residences or where the likelihood of
residential and business development is minimal and the location is otherwise
remote or accessible only by private road or easement.
   (B)   Within the U-1 Utility District the following uses may be
conditionally permitted: A wireless telecommunication facility consisting of
some or all of the following: a tower, an equipment building, antenna, and
other related telecommunication equipment subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   A site plan according to scale shall be provided showing the design
and painted color of the tower and its location of the property.
      (2)   The facility shall be unattended on a daily basis and be visited
only for necessary maintenance or repairs.
      (3)   No tower shall be constructed with lights and be painted red/white
or in other bright colors except when specifically required by a federal law or
regulation. When lights are required, white or strobe lights shall not be used
unless specifically required by federal law or regulation.
      (4)   The tower shall be sited and be of a design and color(s) that would
incorporate the characteristics of the immediate surrounding area so as to
provide a natural blending of the tower into its surrounding environment and be
aesthetically harmonious with it. No advertising shall be permitted on the
tower.
      (5)   The tower shall be constructed so as to allow for the co-location
of at least two additional antennas unless the applicant can demonstrate this
requirement is not technically or reasonably feasible.
      (6)   The maximum height of the tower including antenna shall be 200
feet. Towers over 200 feet may be permitted if applicant can show additional
height is necessary to provide personal wireless services within the village
and the additional height is no greater than necessary to meet the minimal
technical needs of the applicant. The maximum size of the equipment building
shall be 400 square feet.
      (7)   Wireless telecommunication facilities shall be the sole use of the
property.
      (8)   The minimum setback line between the base of the tower and all
adjacent properties shall be the height of the tower except if the property
abuts a public right-of-way, then the setback line shall be either 30 feet from
the edge of the public right-of-way or the distance of the height of the tower
measured from the base of the tower to the nearest edge of the traveled portion
of the right-of-way, whichever is greater.
      (9)   The site shall be a minimum of 500 feet from the nearest dwelling.
The site shall not abut residential, planned residential or planned commercial
zoned districts. The site shall have one common property line that is also a
village corporation limits line.
      (10)   The applicant shall demonstrate that the need for the proposed
tower cannot be accommodated by co-locating antenna on an existing tower.
      (11)   If the tower is abandoned, it shall be removed within 90 days of
its last date of operation.
(Ord. 87-27, § 420, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 12-98, passed 5-18-1998)
CONDITIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL DISTRICTS
§ 155.285 GENERAL CONDITIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL DISTRICTS.
   The following conditions shall be applicable to all land, buildings and
structures within the village.
(Ord. 87-27, § 500, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.286 LOT WIDTH REQUIREMENTS.
   All buildings except accessory buildings shall be situated on a parcel of
property which meets the minimum width requirements at the minimum building
setback line imposed within the zoning district wherein the property is
located.
(Ord. 87-27, § 501, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.287 FRONTAGE OF PUBLIC STREET.
   No structure shall be constructed which does not meet the minimum frontage
requirements of §
155.286 along a duly dedicated and accepted public street within this village.
(Ord. 87-27, § 502, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.288 CORNER LOTS.
   Property situated at the intersection of two public streets shall meet the
minimum setback requirements as required in that district along both such
streets.
(Ord. 87-27, § 503, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.289 ONE PRINCIPAL BUILDING.
   In residential districts no more than a single one- or two-family dwelling
unit shall be allowed on any single parcel of land as carried on the county
auditor's tax duplicate on the date of the application for a zoning permit.
This provision shall not apply to accessory buildings.
(Ord. 87-27, § 504, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.290 CALCULATION OF OPEN SPACE.
   All land that is used for setback requirements shall be and remain under
ownership of the owner of the building or structure for which the setbacks are
established and may not be sold to any adjoining property owner to the extent
that the sale would reduce the land below the minimum setback or area required
by this chapter. No land may be used to satisfy the setback or area
requirements of more than one building except an accessory building.
(Ord. 87-27, § 505, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.291 DRAINAGE CHANNELS.
   The Zoning Inspector and the Planning Commission shall have the authority to
require as a condition of the granting of any zoning permit or conditional
zoning permit that existing drainage channels be maintained or relocated so as
to avoid flooding or damage to adjoining properties from surface water.
(Ord. 87-27, § 506, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.292 WATER AND SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   Issuance of a zoning permit, conditional zoning permit or the approval of a
site plan shall not be deemed a guarantee that municipal water or sewer service
will be available to the property. All connections to water and sewer systems
shall be in accordance with the ordinances and rules of this village.
(Ord. 87-27, § 507, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.293 TEMPORARY BUILDINGS.
   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to constructions shall be allowed
upon the construction site without a zoning permit for a period not to exceed
one year. The use for a period of longer than one year must be approved by the
Planning Commission on such terms as it deems to be in the public interest.
(Ord. 87-27, § 508, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.294 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   Accessory buildings as defined in this chapter shall be permitted in all
districts provided that their use is incidental, subordinate and customary to
the primary use of the property upon which they are located.
   (A)   An accessory building which is physically attached to the principal
building shall be deemed a part thereof for all purposes;
   (B)   No accessory building shall be located in any front yard;
   (C)   Accessory buildings shall be located at least six feet from the side
property lines and at least six feet from the rear property lines;
   (D)   No accessory building shall exceed one story in height from the ground
level up;
   (E)   No accessory building shall be used for human habitation;
   (F)   Accessory buildings shall not occupy more than 50% of the total lot
area minus that occupied by the principal building and all required setbacks.
   (G)   Accessory buildings located on a corner or double frontage lot shall
not be permitted to project beyond the minimum front yard depth facing the
adjacent streets.
(Ord. 87-27, § 509, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.295 HOME SALE.
   A home sale is a sale of personal property to the general public conducted
on any portion of the residence property within a residential zoning district,
to include but not limited to garage sales, patio sales, yard sales, carport
sales, basement sales, porch sales, driveway sales, rummage sales. All home
sales must meet the following requirements:
   (A)   Home sales shall not be conducted on the same residential property
more than twice in a 12-month period.
   (B)   No home sale shall be commenced earlier than 9:00 a.m., nor shall the
sale last later than sundown.
   (C)   No home sale shall last more than three consecutive days.
   (D)   No home sales shall offer new or used merchandise for sale that has
been purchased by the resident for purpose of such resale at such home sale.
(Ord. 87-27, § 510, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.296 FIREWOOD, WOODPILES, SCRAP WOOD, ETC.
   In all districts firewood, woodpiles, or similar materials must be stored
and reasonably stacked on side or rear yards only. The material must have a
minimum setback from property line of six feet and be no more than five feet in
height and cover no more than a total of 200 square feet and have a total of no
more than 15 linear feet.
(Ord. 87-27, § 511, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.297 PUBLIC AND PRIVATE ACCESS REQUIREMENTS.
      Every dwelling shall be located on a lot having access to a public or
private street. Public streets shall be designed in accordance with the minimum
improvement standards with the village subdivision regulations. All multiple-
family developments designed to be serviced by private drives and streets shall
be approved and shall further meet the minimum improvement standards
established for private streets by the Village Engineer or the Village Street
Superintendent.
(Ord. 87-27, § 512, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.298 CORNER CLEARANCE.
   No fence, wall, greenbelt, planting strip, or any other obstruction to
vision above a height of two feet from the established street grade shall be
permitted within the triangular area at the intersection of any street right-
of-way lines formed by a straight line drawn between the right-of-way lines at
a distance along each line of 25 feet measured from their point of
intersection.
(Ord. 87-27, § 513, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.299 ACCESSWAYS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, any walk, terrace or other pavement
surfacing providing access to side, rear or front yards and/or accessory
structures, and not more than ten inches above the ground level shall not be
considered a structure and shall be permitted in any required yard.
(Ord. 87-27, § 514, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.300 SWIMMING POOL FENCES AND SETBACKS.
   (A)   Every swimming pool shall be completely enclosed by a fence not less
than five feet high nor more than six feet high with one or more lockable
gates. All gates shall be equipped with self-closing and self-latching devices
placed at the top of the gate and made inaccessible to small children. The
fence shall be of such design and construction as to effectively prevent a
child from crawling or otherwise passing through or under such a fence.
   (B)   Above ground pools with a sidewall height of at least four feet from
ground level and that have a ladder or other entry system that can be removed
or secured in a manner that prohibits unauthorized access may not require the
above mentioned fence if plans are approved by the Zoning Inspector.
   (C)   Fencing is not required where a wall of a dwelling or accessory
building is adjacent to the pool, provided all pool entrance doors are equipped
with child-proof locks.
   (D)   The pool, including any decks, walkways or accessory uses adjacent
thereto, shall only be located in the rear yard and shall be located a minimum
of six feet from all property lines.
   (E)   Swimming pools located on a corner or double frontage lot shall not be
permitted to project beyond the minimum front yard setback on any adjacent
streets.
(Ord. 87-27, § 515, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 09-4, passed 1-19-2005)
§ 155.301 TRAILERS USED FOR STORAGE.
   No trailer whether operable or not shall be used for the storage of goods in
any use district. A trailer may be used as a temporary construction office or
toolshed during the construction or remodeling of any structure.
(Ord. 87-27, § 516, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.302 HOUSE TRAILER AS TEMPORARY DWELLING.
   In the event of the accidental destruction or damage to any dwelling unit
within this village, the owner thereof may for a period of time, not to exceed
one year, reside in a house trailer upon the premises while the dwelling unit
is being rebuilt.
(Ord. 87-27, § 517, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.303 PARABOLIC/DISH TYPE ANTENNAE.
   Parabolic/dish type antennae are allowed in all districts subject to the
following requirements and shall be considered a conditionally permitted use.
The objective of this regulation is to preserve the residential and building
character of the community and to prevent the congestion of properties so as to
hinder fire safety in recognition of the facts that the majority of the
village's homes and buildings are located on narrow or small lots and are of a
character and type of an earlier period in the community's history and that
such antennae are of such size and construction so as to conflict with this
objective.
   (A)   Maximum number per lot:
      (1)   Residential lot: one.
      (2)   Business or industrial lot: two.
   (B)   Maximum diameter: 12 feet.
   (C)   Minimum setback from all property lines of lot: ten feet except corner
lots shall comply with §
155.288.
   (D)   No antenna may be located in a front or side yard.
   (E)   All antennae shall be no higher above ground level than one-half the
diameter of the antenna unless it is determined that a higher mounting is
necessary in order to obtain proper reception, then the height shall not exceed
that required to receive proper reception. In order to obtain proper reception,
roof-mounted antennae shall only be permitted if the roof-mounted antenna does
not exceed the antenna height necessary to obtain proper reception and it does
not conflict with the objective of these regulations. Any height exception
shall be documented by the installer/manufacturer of the antennae.
   (F)   If it is determined that any of the restrictions of divisions (B) to
(F) prevent normal reception of the antennae, then the restrictions may be
modified so as to permit reception provided there is not substantial detriment
to the objectives of this regulation.
(Motion, passed 6-2-1987; Ord. 87-27, § 518, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.304 OBSCURING GREENBELT.
   Whenever a greenbelt is required by this chapter, it shall be subject to the
following conditions:
   (A)   It shall be planted within three months from the date of the issuance
of a zoning certificate.
   (B)   It shall be constructed with permanent evergreen plant material and
shall have a minimum height of four feet at the time of planting.
   (C)   It shall have a setback of six feet from each adjoining property line
where required and have a minimum width of four feet.
   (D)   All greenbelts shall be reasonably maintained. Any maintenance or
replacement of a greenbelt or part thereof deemed necessary by the Zoning
Inspector must be completed within 30 days from the time the notice is
delivered by the Zoning Inspector.
(Ord. 87-27, § 519, passed 7-7-1987)
   (E)   Variances from §
155.304. The Village Planning Commission is hereby authorized to grant
variances from any of the provisions of §
155.304 if it determines from the evidence presented that the literal
application of these provisions will cause undue hardship or practical
difficulties. The Planning Commission shall in granting a variance from the
requirements of this chapter consider the following factors:
      (1)   The extent to which the greenbelt will interfere with ingress or
egress including sight distance to the applicant's property or any adjacent
property.
      (2)   The extent to which the greenbelt will interfere with public
utility easements or existing structures or buildings.
      (3)   The extent to which the variance will have an adverse effect upon
property values in the area.
      (4)   The extent to which the variance will detract from the appearance
of the area.
(Ord. 87-27, § 520, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.305 GRASS AND WEED CONTROL.
   (A)   Grass and weed control required.
      (1)   No person, whether the owner, lessee, agent, tenant, or other
person or entity having charge or care of land in the village, shall permit
grass or noxious weeds to grow thereon to a height in excess of 12 inches, or
permit noxious weeds to mature seeds thereon, or fail to cut or destroy noxious
weeds of any height when notified by the Zoning Officer to do so.
      (2)   NOXIOUS WEEDS are defined to include thistle, burdock, jimpson
weed, ragweed, milkweed, mullein, poison ivy, other vegetation of rank growth,
and any other plant not hereby included that is included or may become to be
included in the Ohio Revised Code definition of noxious weeds, and the failure
to cut the same is declared a nuisance and a hazard to the health and safety of
the residents of the village.
      (3)   Whoever violates this section is subject to the penalties provided
in §
155.999 in addition to the responsibility for costs described below.
   (B)   Notice to cut grass or weeds.
      (1)   The Zoning Inspector shall cause written notice to be served upon
the owners, lessees, tenants, or other persons or entities having charge or
care of the land in the village notifying them that grass or noxious weeds are
growing on land in their care in violation of this section and directing that
such grass or noxious weeds be cut within 11 days of such notice and that such
grass or weeds be cut thereafter during the growing season with such frequency
to prevent such grass or weeds from exceeding 12 inches or maturing seeds
thereon. Notice shall be personally delivered or mailed to the address at which
the offending vegetation is growing. Notice shall also be mailed by means of
certified mail or personal delivery to the owner of the land at his address of
record in the office of the County Treasurer. If the owner's address of record
is the land upon which the offending vegetation is growing, only one notice is
required and shall be certified mail or personal delivery.
      (2)   Every notice to cut and destroy noxious weeds, grasses or other
types of vegetation shall state: "If this notice is not complied with within 11
N days, in addition to the penalty provided in
155.999, the Village may enter upon the lands to cut and destroy such growth
and the costs incurred by the Village in cutting and destroying such growth
shall by recovered pursuant to Section
155.305(C)(1)."
      (3)   Notice shall be served on any property no more than once each
growing season, May 15 through September 30, of each calendar year.
   (C)   Failure to comply with notice, remedy of village, collection of costs.
      (1)   If the owner, lessee, agent or tenant having charge of, or
responsibility for, the maintenance of the lots or lands fails to comply with
the written notice, the village shall thereupon cause the noxious weeds,
grasses or vegetation to be cut and removed by use of village forces and
equipment or by hiring private contractors.
      (2)   Upon completion of the cutting and removal of noxious weeds,
grasses and vegetation, the Administrator shall determine the cost of cutting
and removal and shall cause a statement thereof to be mailed by means of
certified mail or personal delivery to the owner of the land at his address of
record in the office of the County Treasurer. Such statement of cost shall
include:
         (a)   Village equipment charge;
         (b)   Village equipment operator charge;
         (c)   Equipment transportation charge;
         (d)   Administration and supervision charge;
         (e)   Removal cost (i.e. solid waste district or dump fees);
         (f)   Incidental labor;
         (g)   Invoice for private contractor.
      (3)   The minimum fee to be charged shall in no case be less than $100
for the first hour or portion thereof and $50 per employee per hour for each
additional hour or prorated portion thereof. This amount is exclusive of any
removal cost incurred in carrying out such action. If a private contractor is
used the amount will be equal to that charged by said contractor.
      (4)   The owner shall pay such costs as are charged in accordance with
this chapter to the Finance Director within 30 days after the statement of
charges has been mailed or delivered to the owner at the address of record in
the office of the County Treasurer. Such payments shall be credited to the
appropriation from which such cost was paid by the village. If the charge is
not paid within 30 days after mailing, the village shall cause the charges for
services as provided in division (B) of this section, to be certified to the
County Auditor, together with a proper description of the premises. Such
amounts shall be entered upon the tax duplicate, and any fees incurred by the
village to process the special assessment, shall be a lien upon such lands from
the date of the entry, and shall be collected as other taxes and returned to
the village with the General Fund pursuant to R.C. § 731.54. The recovery of
its costs by the village pursuant to this section is a remedy in addition to
the penalty provided in §
155.999.
(Ord. 21-2019, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 155.306 FENCE/SCREEN REQUIREMENTS.
   Whenever a fence/screen is required by this chapter it shall be subject to
the following general conditions unless other specific requirements are
otherwise provided:
   (A)   Fences shall be constructed of materials that are durable, weather,
and rust resistant. In no instance shall any fence contain barbed wire,
electric current or charge of electricity.
   (B)   Fences shall remain durable and reasonably maintained. Any maintenance
or replacement of fence deemed necessary by the Zoning Inspector must be
completed within 30 days from the date notice is delivered by the Zoning
Inspector.
   (C)   A minimum setback requirement of two feet is required for all fencing.
(Ord. 87-27, § 521, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 43-04, passed 7-19-2004)
§ 155.307 VARIANCES FROM § 155.306.
   The Village Planning Commission is hereby authorized to grant variances from
any of the provisions of §
155.306 if it determines from the evidence presented that the literal
application of these provisions will cause undue hardship or practical
difficulties. The Planning Commission shall in granting a variance from the
requirements of this chapter consider the following factors:
   (A)   The extent to which the fence will interfere with ingress or egress
including sight distance to the applicant's property or any adjacent property.
   (B)   The extent to which the fence will interfere with public utility
easements or existing structures or buildings.
   (C)   The extent to which the variance will have an adverse effect upon
property values in the area.
   (D)   The extent to which the variance will detract from the appearance of
the area.
(Ord. 87-27, § 522, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.308 OUTDOOR WOOD FURNACES / OUTDOOR WOOD BOILERS / OUTDOOR WOOD- FIRED
HYDRONIC HEATERS.
   Outdoor wood furnaces, outdoor wood boilers and outdoor wood-fired hydronic
heaters are permitted in all districts as a permitted use subject to the
following definitions and regulations:
   (A)   Definitions.
      CHIMNEY. Flue or flues that carries off exhaust from an outdoor wood
furnace firebox or bum chamber.
      EPA OWHH PHASE 1 PROGRAM. EPA OWHH (Outdoor Wood-Fired Hydronic Heater)
Phase 1 Program administered by the United States Environmental Protection
Agency.
      EPA OWHH PHASE 1 PROGRAM QUALIFIED MODEL. An outdoor wood-fired hydronic
heater that has been EPA OWHH Phase 1 Program qualified. The model has met the
EPA OWHH Phase 1 emission level and has the proper qualifying label and
hangtag.
      EXISTING OUTDOOR WOOD FURNACE. An outdoor wood furnace that was purchased
and installed prior to the effective date of this local law.
      NATURAL WOOD. Wood which has not been painted, varnished or coated with a
similar material, has not been pressure treated with preservatives, and does
not contain resins or glues as in plywood or other composite wood products.
      NEW OUTDOOR WOOD FURNACE. An outdoor wood furnace that is first
installed, established or constructed after the effective date of this local
law.
      OUTDOOR WOOD FURNACE. Any equipment, device, appliance or apparatus, or
any part thereof, which is installed, affixed or situated outdoors for the
primary purpose of combustion of fuel to produce heat or energy used as a
component of a heating system providing heat for any interior space or water
source. An outdoor wood furnace may also be referred to as an outdoor wood
boiler or outdoor wood-fired hydronic heater.
   (B)   Regulations for outdoor wood furnaces.
      (1)   No person shall, from the effective date of this local law,
construct, install, establish, operate or maintain an outdoor wood furnace
other than in compliance with this section.
      (2)   No person shall operate an outdoor wood furnace unless such
operation conforms with the manufacturer’s instructions regarding such
operation and the requirements regarding fuels that may be burned in an outdoor
wood furnace as set forth in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) of this section and
chimney height as set forth in divisions (C)(4) and (C)(6) of this section.
      (3)   All new outdoor wood furnaces shall be constructed, established,
installed, operated and maintained in conformance with the manufacturer’s
instructions and the requirements of this section. In the event of a conflict,
the requirements of this section shall apply unless the manufacturer’s
instructions are stricter, in which case the manufacturer’s instructions shall
apply.
      (4)   The owner of any new outdoor wood furnace shall produce the
manufacturer’s owner’s manual or installation instructions to the Zoning
Inspector to review at any time if requested.
      (5)   All new outdoor wood furnaces shall be laboratory tested and listed
to appropriate safety standards such as UL, CAN/CSA, ANSI or other applicable
safety standards.
      (6)   If an existing outdoor wood furnace is, through the course of a
proper investigation by local authorities, creating a verifiable nuisance, as
defined by local or state law, the following steps may be taken by the owner
and the Zoning Inspector:
         (a)   Modifications made to the unit to eliminate the nuisance, such
as extending the chimney or relocating the outdoor wood furnace, or both.
         (b)   Cease and desist operating the unit until reasonable steps can
be taken to ensure that the outdoor wood furnace will not be a nuisance.
   (C)   Substantive requirements. Outdoor wood furnaces shall be constructed,
established, installed, operated and maintained pursuant to the following
conditions:
      (1)   Fuel burned in any new or existing outdoor wood furnace shall be
only natural untreated wood, wood pellets, corn products, biomass pellets, or
other listed fuels specifically permitted by the manufacturer’s instructions
such as fuel oil, natural gas or propane backup.
      (2)   The following fuels are strictly prohibited in new or existing
outdoor wood furnaces:
         (a)   Wood that has been painted, varnished or coated with similar
material and/or has been pressure treated with preservatives and contains
resins or glues as in plywood or other composite wood products.
         (b)   Rubbish or garbage, including but not limited to food wastes,
food packaging or food wraps.
         (c)   Any plastic materials, including but not limited to nylon, PVC,
ABS, polystyrene or urethane foam, and synthetic fabrics, plastic films and
plastic containers.
         (d)   Rubber, including tires or other synthetic rubber-like products.
         (e)   Newspaper, cardboard, or any paper with ink or dye products.
         (f)   Any other item not specifically allowed by the manufacturer or
this provision.
      (3)   Setbacks for any new outdoor wood furnace (models not EPA OWHH
Phase 1 Program Qualified) shall be as follows:
         (a)   The outdoor wood furnace shall be located at least 25 feet from
the property.
         (b)   The outdoor wood furnace shall be located on the property in
compliance with manufacturer’s recommendations and/or testing and listing
requirements for clearance to combustible materials.
         (c)   The outdoor wood furnace shall be located at least 100 feet from
any residence dwelling that is not served by the outdoor wood furnace.
      (4)   Chimney heights for new and existing outdoor wood furnaces shall be
as follows:
         (a)   The chimney of any new outdoor wood furnace shall extend at
least two feet above the peak of the building served by the outdoor wood
furnace.
         (b)   Existing properly owners with an outdoor wood furnace would be
exempt from the stack height regulation, unless they would have to replace it.
At that point they must come into compliance with this section.
      (5)   Setbacks for EPA OWHH Phase 1 Program qualified models shall be as
follows:
         (a)   The outdoor wood furnace shall be located at least 25 feet from
the property line.
         (b)   The outdoor wood furnace shall be located on the property in
compliance with manufacturer’s recommendations and/or testing and listing
requirements tor clearance to combustible materials.
      (6)   Chimney heights for EPA OWHH Phase 1 Program qualified models shall
be as follows:
         (a)   The EPA OWHH Phase 1 Program qualified model chimney shall
extend at least two feet above the peak of the residence for which it serves.
      (7)   Outdoor wood furnaces that use corn, wood pellets or other
palletized biomass shall meet the same setback and stack height requirements as
EPA OWHH Phase 1 Program qualified models.
(Ord. 12-37, passed 9-4-2012)
COMMERCIAL SITE PLAN REVIEW REQUIREMENTS
§ 155.309 DEVELOPMENT PLAN REVIEW.
   Following are the general requirements for preliminary and final site plan
review and approval by the Village of Bellville Planning Commission. The
village may add any additional requirements as deemed necessary to ensure the
ability to perform adequate review. This review applies to all development
except one-family detached and two-family dwellings including residential
subdivisions that are required to meet the requirements of
Chapter 154.
   (A)   Preliminary development plan requirements.
      (1)   Plan review application form. This application form shall contain
general information about the name and location of the proposed development as
well as the principals involved. The application and filing fees are due at the
time of submittal. Filing Fees for Preliminary Development Plan review are
$50.00.
      (2)   Content. Every preliminary site plan shall be prepared by a
qualified professional engineer and shall contain the following information:
         (a)   Title sheet and general notes.
         (b)   Existing conditions plan:
            1.   Location map, scale and north arrow.
            2.   Property layout (survey markers).
            3.   Existing conditions: land use, buildings, zoning, contours
and/or spot elevations, watercourses, wooded areas, wetlands.
            4.   Total site area.
         (c)   Preliminary site plan:
            1.   Layout and dimensions of all streets, sidewalks, buildings,
parking areas and activity areas including existing driveways and cross streets
located adjacent to the site.
            2.   Dimensions of all setbacks and easement areas.
            3.   Location and description of all greenbelts, landscaping,
exterior lighting and signage.
            4.   Phasing schedule.
            5.   Location of all utility lines, manholes and fire hydrants.
            6.   Location of paved areas.
            7.   Location of proposed traffic signals.
            8.   Location of garbage receptacles/dumpster enclosures.
            9.   Stormwater management plan intensions.
         (d)   Architectural plan: Exterior building elevations and floor
plans. If exterior elevations are not available, reasonable graphic
representations may be submitted.
   (B)   Final development plan review requirements. After the preliminary
development plan has been reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission, the
applicant may proceed with the submission of a final development plan in
accordance with any provided recommendations and the following requirements:
      (1)   Plan review application form. This application form shall contain
general information about the name and location of the proposed development as
well as the principals involved. The application and filing fees are due at the
time of submittal. Filing Fees for Final Development Plan Review are $50.00.
      (2)   Content. Every final site plan shall be prepared by a qualified
professional engineer and shall contain the following information:
         (a)   Title sheet and general notes:
            1.   Name, address and telephone number of applicant/owner/
developer.
            2.   Project title.
            3.   Signature blocks: Required for storm system maintenance/
sanitary connection(s)/ water system connection(s).
         (b)   Existing conditions plan.
         (c)   Site plan:
            1.   Layout and dimensions of all streets, sidewalks, buildings,
parking areas and activity areas including existing driveways and cross streets
located within 500 feet of the site.
            2.   Dimensions of all setbacks and easement areas.
            3.   Parking space dimensions.
            4.   Location and dimensions of all greenbelts, landscaping,
exterior lighting and signage.
            5.   Phasing schedule.
            6.   Location of all utility lines, manholes and fire hydrants.
            7.   Location and dimensions of all greenbelts, landscaping,
exterior lighting and signage.
            8.   Location of paved areas.
            9.   Pavement details.
            10.   Location of proposed traffic signals.
            11.   Location of garbage receptacles/dumpster enclosure.
            12.   Proposed grading (contours and/or spot elevations).
            13.   Covenants, easements or other restrictions to be imposed on
the site.
         (d)   Utility plan:
            1.   Location and dimensions of all utility lines, manholes and
hydrants.
            2.   Ohio EPA documentation.
            3.   Plan and profile sheets.
            4.   Testing requirements and specifications.
            5.   Easement areas.
         (e)   Storm water management plan:
            1.   Stormwater application and fee.
            2.   Stormwater management plan in accordance with
Chapter 153 of Bellville's Code of Ordinances.
            3.   Checklist for engineering details (§
153.044).
            4.   Checklist for stormwater control plans (§
153.072).
            5.   Storm water pollution prevention plan in accordance with the
current Ohio EPA Construction General Permit.
            6.   Storm water management construction cost estimate.
            7.   Post Construction O&M Agreement & Manual (see Village Engineer
for acceptable form).
         (f)   Landscape plan.
         (g)   Lighting plan:
            1.   Photometric plan.
            2.   Lighting details and specifications i.e. shielding, timers,
etc.
         (h)   Architectural plan: Exterior building elevations and floor
plans.
         (i)   Impact fee calculation.
         (j)   Traffic impact study if required by village during preliminary
plan review pursuant to §
155.228.
         (k)   Site construction cost estimate.
   (C)   Plan review and inspection fees.
      (1)   Plans, quantities, and an itemized cost estimate prepared by a
professional engineer shall be submitted to the Village Engineer for review and
approval for all civil site related improvements, including water, sewer,
parking, stormwater management, etc. (see example attached hereto as Exhibit A
to Ord. 18-2017). A certified check in the amount of three percent (3%) of the
approved construction cost estimates or $1,000.00, whichever is larger, shall
be deposited with the village to pay the costs associated with project
coordination including plan review and field inspection of said construction to
assure its conformance with the approved plans. The check shall be made out to
the Village of Bellville, Ohio.
      (2)   An additional stormwater management plan review and inspection fee
shall be provided in accordance with §
153.010 (see example attached hereto as Exhibit B to Ord. 18-2017).
(Ord. 18-2017, passed 2-21-2017)
Site_Review_Attachment
PARKING
§ 155.320 PARKING REQUIREMENTS; PURPOSE.
   Regardless of the zoning of the district the use of the property shall
determine the number of parking spaces required by this chapter. It is the
purpose of these provisions to require a landowner to provide sufficient
parking space on the owner's property for the maximum number of vehicles which
may be present at any one time; to provide for a system of safe ingress and
egress and to minimize the number of cars that are parked upon public streets.
(Ord. 87-27, § 530, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.321 PERMITS CONDITIONED ON ADEQUATE PARKING.
   No zoning permit or conditional zoning permit shall be issued for any
commercial, industrial or residential land use which does not comply with the
off- street parking and maneuvering lane requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 87-27, § 531, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.322 USE OF PARKING SPACES.
   All off-street parking spaces shall be used only for the temporary parking
of motor vehicles. Except in residential districts no long term storage or
repair work, except in the case of an emergency shall be performed in any off-
street parking area.
(Ord. 87-27, § 532, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.323 FRONT YARD PARKING.
   In business districts, no required off-street parking area shall be located
within four feet of the street right-of-way line.
(Ord. 87-27, §533, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.324 CONVERSION OF PARKING AREA.
   No area designated for off-street parking may be sold, the lease thereon
permitted to be cancelled nor converted to another use if in so doing the
minimum number of parking spaces required by this chapter are not retained.
(Ord. 87-27, §534, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.325 SURFACE OF PARKING AREA.
   (A)   All off-street parking areas and all driveways, except off-street
parking areas and driveways for one- or two-family dwelling units, shall be
Portland cement concrete or asphaltic concrete and well drained. Any off-street
parking area that is excavated shall be resurfaced by Portland cement concrete
or asphaltic concrete within 30 days after completion of construction or as the
weather may reasonably permit.
   (B)   All off-street parking areas and driveways for one- or two-family
dwelling units shall be Portland cement concrete or asphaltic concrete or
gravel and well drained. Any off-street parking area that is excavated shall be
resurfaced by Portland cement concrete or asphaltic concrete or gravel within
30 days after completion of construction or as the weather may reasonably
permit. This surface area requirement shall not apply to parking areas located
between a street and a sidewalk where there is no curb and shall not apply to
parking areas located entirely behind the primary structure on the property.
All parking areas must be placed in conformity with this Zoning Code; the
requirements of this section are in addition to and do not limit the
requirements located elsewhere within this Zoning Code.
   (C)   No driveway or off-street parking area may be placed so as to require
a vehicle to drive over a curb; all driveways for all uses in the village shall
enter onto an alley or be accessible through a curb cut placed in conformity
with the applicable regulations, procedures, and requirements for curb cuts.
(Ord. 87-27, § 535, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 9-2015, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 155.326 SIZE OF PARKING SPACES.
   All off-street parking spaces required by this chapter shall be laid out and
maintained as follows:
 
Parking Angle     Parking Space Maneuvering At Base Line Width
Length Lane Width
45 degrees        8' 4"         20'         12'
60 degrees        8' 6"         20'         15'
90 degrees        9'            20'         20'
 
(Ord. 87-27, § 536, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.327 MINIMUM REQUIRED PARKING SPACES.
   The following shall be the minimum number of spaces required:
   (A)   Residential uses.
      (1)   One- or two-family dwelling units, two per dwelling unit which may
include parking space in the garage.
      (2)   Multiple-family dwelling units, two per dwelling unit plus one for
each full-time employee which may include parking spaces in garages.
   (B)   Commercial uses.
      (1)   Retail stores and shopping centers, three spaces for each 1,000
square feet of floor area open to the public.
      (2)   Banks, savings and loans or credit unions, one for each employee
and one for each 100 square feet of floor area open to the public.
      (3)   Office use, one for each employee and one for each 200 square feet
of usable floor space.
      (4)   Restaurants, taverns, nightclubs, one space for each employee and
one space for each three customer seats.
      (5)   Funeral homes, one space for each 50 square feet of area used for
displaying bodies.
      (6)   Schools:
         (a)    Elementary and junior high, two for each classroom and one for
every eight seats in the room with the largest seating capacity.
         (b)   High school, one for each employee and one for every ten
students.
         (c)   Business or trade schools, one for each employee and one for
every two students.
      (7)   Hotels or motels, one space for each employee, and five for every
four guest rooms.
      (8)   Rest, nursing or convalescent homes, one space for each employee
and one space for every four patients or residents.
      (9)   Indoor recreation, one space for each employee and one space for
each 200 square feet of area open to the public.
      (10)   Outdoor recreation except golf courses, one space for each
employee and one for each 300 square feet open to the public.
      (11)   Bowling alley, one space for each employee and four spaces for
each alley or lane.
      (12)   Private club or lodge, one space for each employee and one space
for every three seats.
      (13)   Churches, one space for every three seats in the largest room.
      (14)   Rooming, boarding, fraternity or sorority houses, one space for
each two residents and one space for each available room.
      (15)   Golf courses, one space for each employee and two for every green.
      (16)   Service repair garages, one space for each employee on the largest
shift, one space for each service bay area, one space for each business
vehicle.
   (C)   Industrial uses. One space for each employee on the largest shift.
(Ord. 87-27, § 537, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 2010-63, passed 5-17-2010)
§ 155.328 LOCATION OF PARKING SPACES.
   All parking shall be located on a lot owned or leased by the applicant and
the Planning Commission may require proof of the applicant's right to use any
non-owned property.
(Ord. 87-27, § 538, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.329 JOINT PARKING AREAS.
   No parking area may be used to meet the requirements of this chapter for two
or more land uses unless the area is adequate to satisfy the requirements of
this chapter for all such uses simultaneously.
(Ord. 87-27, § 539, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.330 USE OF SETBACK AREAS FOR PARKING.
   Unless otherwise specified in this chapter all setback areas may be used for
parking.
(Ord. 87-27, § 540, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.331 VARIANCE FROM PARKING REQUIREMENT.
   Where because of unusual circumstances with respect to the land use or
unusual topographical features the number or size of parking spaces required by
this chapter are in excess of those that are likely to be actually needed, the
Planning Commission shall have the authority to reduce the requirements of §§
155.326 and
155.327 above.
(Ord. 87-27, § 541, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.332 ACCESS TO PARKING SPACES.
   Access to all off-street parking spaces shall be by means of a maneuvering
lane. Except for one- and two-family residential driveways on local streets, no
parking space shall be arranged so as to require backing directly onto a public
street.
(Ord. 87-27, § 542, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.333 USES NOT SPECIFIED.
   Whenever this chapter fails to provide the parking space requirements for a
specific use, the Planning Commission is authorized to designate the
appropriate number of parking spaces and shall make the compliance with its
order a condition of the site plan approval. In reaching its decision, the
Planning Commission shall consider the following factors:
   (A)   The maximum number of employees, customers and other persons who will
be on the premises at any one time.
   (B)   The length of time each person will be present.
   (C)   The likelihood that persons will arrive by motor vehicle.
   (D)   The number of spaces required by §
155.327 above for uses comparable to the proposed use.
(Ord. 87-27, § 543, passed 7-7-1987)
SIGN REGULATIONS
§ 155.345 PURPOSE.
   It is determined that the use of land for the location of signs is a
significant use of land with this village. In order to promote the aesthetics
of this village and to reduce the hazards to motorists and pedestrians from the
distractions caused by signs, these regulations are enacted as the minimum
necessary to protect the public safety and welfare.
(Ord. 87-27, § 550, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.346 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following signs shall be permitted in all districts within this village
and no sign permit shall be required for them:
   (A)   Traffic control or other regulatory or identification signs erected by
the federal, state, county, township or village governmental authorities.
   (B)   One sign per parcel advertising the sale, rental or lease of real
estate provided the signs are located on the premises that are the subject of
the sale, rental or lease, unlighted and no larger than four square feet.
   (C)   Political signs provided they are removed no later than ten days after
the election at which the candidate or issue appears on the ballot.
   (D)   In residential districts, garage, basement, porch or other casual sale
signs provided no more than two such sales are held per 12-month period and the
signs are present for no more than three days each time.
   (E)   Signs erected for the convenience of the public showing the location
of telephones, bus stops and other public conveniences.
   (F)   Real estate open house or directional signs provided they are
displayed for no more than three days a week for any property.
   (G)   Construction project identification signs denoting the owner or
developer, the architect, engineer or contractor and information concerning the
project located on the premises where the construction is taking place and no
larger than 40 square feet.
   (H)   Temporary banners or signs announcing educational, religious or public
events no larger than 20 square feet and located on the premises where the
event is to occur.
(Ord. 87-27, § 551, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.347 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   With the exception of those signs listed in §
155.346, and those excluded under §
155.362, no person, firm or corporation shall erect, enlarge or structurally
alter any sign within this village without first obtaining a permit from the
Village Zoning Inspector. No permit shall be required for the change in an
existing sign which does not increase its size or change its structural nature.
Whenever the size of a sign is regulated or the fee for a sign permit is based
upon the size of the sign, such measurement shall be based upon total display
area.
(Ord. 87-27, § 552, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.348 PERMIT FORM.
   The Zoning Inspector shall provide application forms for a sign permit
which, when approved by him or her, shall become the sign permit. The
application shall contain the following information:
   (A)   Name and address of the owner of the property where the sign is to be
erected.
   (B)   Name and address of the sign erector.
   (C)   Description of the sign including materials used in its construction,
size, location of proposed erection.
   (D)   A diagram of the proposed sign and its location on the property.
   (E)   The application shall be accompanied by fees according to the schedule
in §
155.446.
(Ord. 87-27, § 553, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.349 PERMITTED IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   Commercial signs are hereby determined to be a non-residential use of land
and no commercial signs except as expressly hereinafter permitted in this
section shall be allowed in the R-1, R-2 Residential Districts within this
village.
   (A)   No signs permitted in an R-1 District for any reason except signs of
no more than two square feet identifying the resident's name or house number.
   (B)   Signs identifying a group home or apartment building in R-2 District
and of no more than eight square feet.
   (C)   Signs identifying a complex or subdivision which does not exceed more
than ten square feet.
   (D)   Signs for home occupations shall not be permitted.
(Ord. 87-27, § 554, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.350 PERMITTED IN BUSINESS AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   In the Business and Industrial Districts the following signs are permitted:
   (A)   On premises activities signs as hereinafter regulated.
   (B)   Off premises activities signs subject to the following: The minimum
lot width for the location of any off-premises sign shall be 200 feet. In
addition no sign shall be located within 1,000 feet of any existing off-
premises sign nor within 250 feet of any street right-of-way intersection. Each
off-premises sign shall not exceed 600 square feet of total display area. A
two-sided sign may be use at a single location provided the total display area
of both signs does not exceed 600 square feet.
(Ord. 87-27, § 555, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 18-96, passed 4-15-1996; Ord. 19-08,
passed 6-23-2008)
§ 155.351 SIZE LIMITATIONS OF SIGNS.
   In any Business or Industrial District, each establishment shall be allowed
the following signs for advertising on premises activities:
   (A)   One wall sign with a maximum area of 40 square feet for each 1,000
square feet of floor area open to the public, but in no event larger than 300
square feet.
   (B)   In lieu of one wall sign stated in division (A) above, one projecting
sign with a maximum area of 20 square feet per side for each 1,000 square feet
of area open to the public but in no event larger than 150 square feet per
side.
   (C)   One pole or pylon sign with a maximum area of 150 square feet per
side.
   (D)   Accessory signs such as those denoting brand names of articles sold or
credit cards accepted not to exceed 20 square feet per business.
(Ord. 87-27, § 556, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 18-96, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 155.352 POLE OR PYLON SIGNS.
   (A)   Heights. No pylon sign shall be higher than 30 feet from the ground.
In any B-1, B-2 or Industrial District, no pole sign shall be higher than 30
feet from the ground. In any B-3 district, no pole sign shall be higher than
100 feet from the ground.
   (B)   Location. No pole or pylon sign shall be located closer than 20 feet
of any adjoining property line or closer than ten feet from the public right-
of-way except in any B-3 District, signs higher than 30 feet shall be located
no closer than 330 feet from the public right-of-way.
(Ord. 87-27, § 557, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 18-96, passed 4-15-1996)
§ 155.353 LIGHTING.
   All signs that are lighted shall have the lighting arranged in such a manner
as to minimize its effects upon neighboring properties or adjacent streets, and
hall not be designed or located to cause confusion with traffic control lights.
All lighting shall be of constant intensity and no flashing, intermittent,
rotating or moving lights shall be allowed.
(Ord. 87-27, § 559, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.354 SIGN ERECTORS.
   (A)   No person, partnership or corporation shall erect, enlarge or
structurally alter any sign within this village:
      (1)   Which contains any electric connection;
      (2)   Which, when completed, is 12 or more feet off the ground;
      (3)   Which is larger than eight square feet; unless the person,
partnership or corporation is the holder of a current sign erector's license
issued under this chapter.
   (B)   An application for the license shall be filed with the Village Zoning
Inspector and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of the sign erector;
      (2)   Description of the types of signs the sign erector plans to erect;
      (3)   Evidence that the sign erector has in effect general liability
insurance providing coverage for wrongful death and bodily injury in an amount
of at least $500,000 per person and $1,000,000 per incident;
      (4)   Payment of a fee of $5. Upon a determination by the Zoning
Inspector that the sign erector has met the requirements of this section he or
she shall issue a sign erector's license which shall be valid for a period of
one year from its date of issue.
(Ord. 87-27, § 560, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.355 PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   No signs except those erected by a governmental agency shall be permitted
upon the public right-of-way and any sign so located shall be deemed a public
nuisance subject to immediate removal.
(Ord. 87-27, § 561, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.356 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW.
   All signs erected in this village in addition to complying with the
provisions of this chapter shall comply where applicable with R.C. Chapter 5516
and the regulations thereunder.
(Ord. 87-27, § 562, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.357 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   Temporary signs not exceeding 18 square feet in area shall be allowed in all
business and industrial areas in addition to all other signs permitted by this
chapter. A sign permit shall be required for each temporary sign. The applicant
shall indicate upon the application the number of months the sign will be
displayed before the sign permit is issued. In no case may a temporary sign be
displayed for more than six months in any 12-month period. No fee for a
temporary sign is required. See §
155.355.
(Ord. 87-27, § 563, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.358 VARIANCES.
   The Village Planning Commission is hereby authorized to grant variances from
any of the provisions of §
155.345 to
155.367 if it determines from the evidence presented that the literal
application of these provisions will cause undue hardship or practical
difficulties. The Planning Commission shall in granting a variance from the
requirements of this chapter consider the following factors:
   (A)   The extent to which the variance will impair vehicular or pedestrian
traffic by distracting attention from traffic control signals.
   (B)   The extent to which any variance will interfere with ingress or egress
including sight distance to the applicant's property or any adjacent property.
   (C)   The extent of which any variance will interfere with public utility
poles, wires or other facilities or traffic control devices.
   (D)   The extent to which the variance will have an adverse effect upon
property values in the area.
   (E)   The extent to which the variance will detract from the appearance of
the area.
(Ord. 87-27, § 564, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.359 VARIANCE PROCEDURE.
   Whenever the Zoning Inspector is unable to issue a sign permit because the
proposed sign does not comply with the provisions of this chapter, he or she
shall advise the applicant of his or her right to appeal to Planning Commission
for a variance. The appeal shall be in writing accompanied by a fee of $25 and
the hearing thereon shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of §
155.404(C), (D) and (E) below.
(Ord. 87-27, § 565, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.360 PROHIBITED LOCATIONS.
   No sign shall be allowed to overhang a public street nor be located within
six feet horizontally or 12 feet vertically of any electrical lines or
appurtenances.
(Ord. 87-27, § 566, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.361 REMOVAL OF UNSAFE SIGNS.
   (A)   If the Zoning Inspector finds that any sign within this village
presents a risk of harm to persons or property, he or she shall immediately
give written notice to the landowner where the sign is located. Unless the
unsafe condition is remedied within seven days, the Zoning Inspector shall
cause the sign to be removed.
   (B)   In the event of a clear and present danger that the sign will fall or
otherwise injure a pedestrian or motorist, the Zoning Inspector may cause the
sign to be removed without prior notice.
(Ord. 87-27, §567, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.362 SIGNS EXCEPTED FROM REGULATION.
   In addition to the signs excluded from regulation by §
155.346 above is not intended to apply to signs advocating political, religious
or philosophical points of view which are located on private property. No
permit shall be required for such signs nor shall the other restrictions of
this chapter be applied.
(Ord. 87-27, § 568, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.363 SHOPPING CENTER SIGNS.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
155.350, in lieu of the single pole or pylon sign permitted for each business,
a single pole or pylon sign for a shopping center shall be allowed on each
public street which the shopping center abuts. No other pole or pylon signs
shall be allowed in the shopping center.
(Ord. 87-27, § 569, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.364 STRUCTURE.
   All signs shall be constructed in accordance with the Ohio Basic Building
Code and applicable electrical regulation and shall be subject to building and
electrical inspection by Richland County.
(Ord. 87-27, § 570, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.365 ABANDONED SIGNS.
   Any business which ceases to operate shall remove all signs, poles and other
sign supporting structures from the premises. Upon failure to do so, the Zoning
Inspector shall give notice to the owner of the property to remove the sign.
Unless the sign is removed within ten days thereafter, the village may remove
the sign at the landowner's expense.
(Ord. 87-27, § 571, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.366 SIGN INSTALLATION.
   All signs shall be installed in accordance with the applicable provisions of
the Ohio Basic Building Code. In the event that a sign is more than 15 feet
tall, the Zoning Inspector shall request that the Village Engineer review the
construction plans in order to be certain that the sign will not be a hazard to
the public. The actual charges paid by the village for the engineer's review
shall be added to the cost of the sign permit.
(Ord. 87-27, § 572, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.367 MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION.
   Every sign shall be subject to periodic inspection by the Zoning Inspector.
All supports, braces, guys and anchors shall be kept in good repair and shall
be painted or otherwise treated to resist corrosion. Any repairs deemed
necessary by the Zoning Inspector must be completed within a 30-day period from
date of written notification.
(Ord. 87-27, § 573, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.368 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of §§
155.345 to
155.367 only, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning:
   COMMERCIAL SIGN. A sign used to promote the sale of product or service.
   OFF-PREMISES ACTIVITIES SIGN. A sign denoting the name of a business, its
products, services, logo, slogans or other information relating to goods or
services which are not sold on the premises where the sign is located.
   ON-PREMISES ACTIVITIES SIGN. A sign denoting the name of a business or its
products, services, logo, slogans or other information relating to goods or
services sold on the premises where the sign is located.
   POLE SIGN. A sign wholly supported by a structure placed on or into the
ground.
   PROJECTING SIGN. A sign which is affixed to a wall or other structure in
such a manner as to form a 90° angle therewith.
   PYLON SIGN. A sign with an enclosed base which appears to be an integral
part of the sign.
   SHOPPING CENTER. A group of contiguous retail stores originally planned and
developed as a single unit with common off-street parking facilities.
   SIGN. Any object which is used to display words, letters, pictures, or
symbols with the intent to convey a message or attract attention.
   TEMPORARY SIGNS. A sign which is not permanently affixed to the ground or a
building and is capable of being moved with a minimum of effort.
   WALL SIGN. A sign attached to or erected against or applied directly upon a
wall of a building or other structure and may be an integral part of the wall
with the exposed face of the sign in a place parallel to the place of the wall.
(Ord. 87-27, § 574, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.370 OFF-PREMISES SIGNS.
   These restrictions apply to all districts within the village.
   (A)   Locations permitted. Off-premise signs are permitted in the following
locations:
      (1)   Business and industrial.
   (B)   Sign size. An off-premise advertising sign is subject to the following
size restrictions according to the posted speed limit on the road which the
off-premise sign faces:
 
Posted speed limit (mph)    ≤336-45 46-55 56-65 Limited access
Maximum sign area (sq. ft.) 60  100   150   200   300
 
   (C)   Height and location of sign.
      (1)   The lowest edge of an off-premise sign shall be at least seven feet
above the finished grade.
      (2)   Off-premise signs shall have a maximum height of 30 feet.
   (D)   Spacing. Off-premise signs shall be:
      (1)   Set back from the ultimate right-of-way a distance equal to the
height of the off-premise sign or 15 feet, whichever is greater.
      (2)   Located no closer than 25 feet from any property line.
      (3)   Located no closer than 50 feet from any building, structure, or on-
premise sign located on the same property.
      (4)   Located no closer than 1,500 feet from another off-premise sign on
either side of the road measured linearly.
      (5)   Located no closer than 500 feet from any intersection, or
interchange (on/off-ramp).
      (6)   Located no closer than 1,000 feet from any property line abutting a
public park, playground, religious institution, cemetery, school, or
residential district.
      (7)   Not attached to the external wall or otherwise affixed to any part
of any building and shall not extend over any public property or right-of-way.
      (8)   Not located on sewer rights-of-way, or water, electric, or
petroleum pipelines.
      (9)   Not located on a bridge.
   (E)   Number of signs per lot. There shall not be more than one off-premise
sign per lot. Vertically or horizontally stacked signs shall not be permitted.
   (F)   Content. Off-premise signs shall not display any message or graphic of
an obscene or pornographic nature as determined by the Bellville Village
Administrator.
   (G)   Double-sided off-premise signs. Signs may be single or double-sided.
However, if the interior angle formed by the face of a double-sided sign is
greater than 45 degrees of the face of the paralleled panels are greater than
the allowable distance, all sides of such sign shall be considered in
calculating the sign area.
   (H)   Message sequencing. Message sequencing is prohibited.
   (I)   Construction and maintenance.
      (1)   All plans for off-premise signs shall be certified by a licensed
engineer registered in Pennsylvania.
      (2)   All off-premise advertising signs shall be constructed in
accordance with industry-wide standards established by the Outdoor Advertising
Association of America and the Institute of Outdoor Advertising, or their
successor organizations. All off-premise advertising signs shall be
structurally sound and maintained in good condition and in compliance with Ohio
Basic Building Code.
      (3)   The rear face of a sign-face, off-premise advertising sign shall be
painted and maintained with a single neutral color as approved by the Bellville
Village Administrator.
      (4)   Every three years, the owner of the billboard shall have a
structural inspection made of the billboard by a licensed engineer registered
in Ohio and shall provide the village a certificate certifying that the
billboard is structurally sound.
   (J)   Identification of sign owner. All off-premise signs shall be
identified on the structure with name, address, and phone number of the owner
of such sign.
   (K)   Landscaping.
      (1)   Landscaping shall be provided at the base of all off-premise signs.
Trees and shrubbery, including evergreens and flowering trees, of sufficient
size and quantity shall be used to achieve the purpose of this section.
      (2)   Trees greater than four inches in diameter removed for construction
of the sign shall be replaced on-site at a ration of one replacement tree for
each removed tree using native species no less than three inches in diameter.
   (L)   Additional regulations. All off-premises signs shall comply with any
and all applicable zoning regulations of Bellville, and any and all municipal,
state, and/or federal regulations. In the event any other regulation is in
conflict with the provisions of this section, the more strict regulations shall
apply.
   (M)   Application/plan requirements. Plans submitted for off-premise
advertising signs shall show the following:
      (1)   The location of the proposed sign on the lot with the required sign
setbacks for the property line and ultimate right-of-way.
      (2)   The location and species of existing trees.
      (3)   The distance to the nearest existing off-premise advertising sign.
      (4)   The distance to the nearest right-of-way, property line, building,
structure, on-premises sign, off-premises sign, intersection, interchange,
safety rest area, bridge, residential district, or institutional use, sewer
right-of-way, and water, electric, or petroleum pipelines.
      (5)   Site plans containing all of the applicable requirements set forth
in the Bellville zoning code, as amended.
      (6)   Certification under the seal by a licensed engineer that the off-
premise sign, as proposed, is designed in accordance with all federal, state,
and local laws, codes, and professional standards.
   (N)   Illumination and changeable copy of off-premises signs.
      (1)   Off-premises signs may incorporate manual changeable copy signs.
      (2)   Off-premises signs may be illuminated, provided that:
         (a)   All light sources are designed, shielded, arranged, and
installed to confine or direct all illumination to the surface of the off-
premises sign and away from adjoining properties.
         (b)   Light sources are not visible from any street or adjoining
properties.
      (3)   The following illumination types shall be permitted subject to the
above regulations:
         (a)   Message center sign;
         (b)   Digital display;
         (c)   External illumination; and
         (d)   Internal illumination.
      (4)   Off-premises signs may incorporate Tri-Vision Board. The length of
time each message of the Tri-Vision Board may be displayed before changing is
based upon the visibility and posted speed limit unique to individual signs and
adjacent road conditions. The length of time shall be determined by the Village
Administrator at the time of permitting.
(Ord. 28-2018, passed 9-4-2018)
FOOD TRUCK AND OUTDOOR VENDORS
§ 155.375 FOOD TRUCKS.
   Food trucks and outdoor vendors (hereinafter "itinerant retailers") require
a conditional use permit jointly requested by the property owner (or tenant in
possession) and the itinerant retailer and may only operate in the B1, B2, B3,
and Conservation districts, subject to the following limitations.
   (A)   The following conduct shall be prohibited:
      (1)   No merchandise shall be displayed or sold within ten feet of a:
         (a)   Doorway or entranceway or within ten feet of prolongation of a
doorway or entranceway to the curbline;
         (b)   Crosswalk;
         (c)   Designated bus stop;
         (d)   Fire hydrant; or
         (e)   Curbcut.
      (2)   No operation between the hours of 10:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m.
      (3)   No merchandise shall be displayed on any utility pole, planter,
tree, trash container, public bench, or other sidewalk fixture.
      (4)   No merchandise shall be displayed or sold in any manner that
blocks, obstructs, or restricts the free passage of pedestrians in the lawful
use of sidewalks.
      (5)   (a)   No itinerant retailers shall operate within the boundaries of
a designated special event, nor elsewhere in the village during the operation
of a designated special event without the express permission of the sponsor of
the special event. It is the responsibility of the itinerant retailer to ensure
they do not violate this division; a permit that includes dates of a special
event, even if issued, is not valid for operation during such an event.
Itinerant retailers operating in special events are exempt from the license
requirement and limitations of this section during the event. Designated
special events shall include only those events for which the written approval
of Council has been obtained for the use of public property for the special
event. The Council may grant permission for the use of the public property for
special events sponsored by community service organizations and nonprofit
corporations. A map designating the boundaries of the public property being
utilized for the special event must be submitted by the sponsoring entity to
the Chief of Police after the special event has been approved.
         (b)   Currently approved and recurring special events include: The
Bellville Agricultural Street Fair, the Farmers Market, "First and Third
Thursday" events, and the Clear Fork Valley Chamber of Commerce Street Mart.
      (6)   No itinerant retailer shall operate in any one location for more
than three consecutive days and no more than twice a year at any combination of
locations throughout village corporation limits.
      (7)   Itinerant retailers shall remove all equipment, vehicles and price
postings from their places of operation at the end of each day.
      (8)   No itinerant retailer shall operate on any private property without
the landowner or tenant in possession being a party to the permit application.
      (9)   No itinerant retailer shall operate in municipal parks, street
rights of way or on any other public property.
   (B)   For itinerant retailers selling food, copies of a mobile food service
license issued within the State of Ohio must be provided. For temporary
licenses, separate application must be made to Richland Public Health with
approval in hand prior to the application for a permit.
   (C)   The itinerant retailer ("owner") and landowner (or tenant in
possession) must each have an insurance policy currently in effect, and will
maintain same during the entire permit/approval period covering the owner or
any other person using the described/permitted vending device with the owner's
consent for any claims or damages to property or injury to persons resulting
from any activity carried on under the permit/approval. Such insurance shall
provide coverage of not less than $25,000 for any one incident and shall be
combined single limit coverage from an insurance company duly licensed to
transact such business in the State of Ohio, and no deductible shall be allowed
from this policy in an amount greater than $250. The landowner must have a
general business insurance policy that covers personal injuries to business
invitees.
   (D)   Must have current Richland Health Department and Food Service License.
   (E)   Each conditional use permit is only valid the current calendar year; a
new permit with all required documentation and fees is required for subsequent
years.
   (F)   The permit shall be requested on the form provided by the village and
accompanied by a $100 permit fee; the Village Administrator is given discretion
to request any information that may be useful or necessary for the village in
enforcing this section or subsequently in the event of any malfeasance or
mishap, which can include, for example, personally identifying information of
the applicant (name, height, weight, SSN, hair, eye, gender, etc.),
descriptions of the goods/services to be offered for sale, dates of operation,
numbers and names of employees, a BCI background check of the applicant and/or
employees, business information such as license numbers, trade names, etc. The
Village Administrator shall also be the approval authority for permits issued
under this section.
   (G)   Grandfather clause. Itinerant retailers with permits issued prior to
the effective date of this subchapter shall not be required to pay permit fees
for yearly renewals; however, all other restrictions and requirements,
including but not limited restrictions on locations, timing, duration, and
frequency, apply to current permit-holding businesses and those businesses must
provide copies of all required documents annually in lieu of applying for a new
calendar year permit.
   (H)   Violations, penalty. A violation of this section, either by operation
without a permit or operation in violation of any of the terms, is an
unclassified misdemeanor punishable by a fine of up to $500, plus forfeiture of
any gross revenue received in violation of this section. Each day of operation
is considered a separate violation.
(Ord. 26-2021, passed 7-20-2021; Ord. 40-2021, passed 11-2-2021)
NON-CONFORMING USES
§ 155.380 INCOMPATIBILITY; INTENT.
    Within the districts established by this chapter or amendments that may
later be adopted, there exist lots, uses of land, structures, and uses of
structures and land in combination which were lawful before this chapter was
passed or its present amendments adopted, but which would be prohibited,
regulated or restricted under the terms of this chapter or amendments. It is
the intent of this chapter to permit these non-conformities to continue until
they are removed, but not to encourage their survival. Non-conformities are
declared by this chapter to be incompatible with permitted uses in the
districts in which the use is located. A non-conforming use of land, or a non-
conforming use of a structure and land in combination shall not be extended or
enlarged more than 10%. However, a non-conforming use which is consistent with
the current zoning may be substituted for an existing use. Nothing in this
chapter shall be deemed to require a change in the plans, constructions, or
designated use of any building on which actual construction was lawfully begun
prior to the effective date of adoption of amendment of this chapter and upon
which actual building construction has been carried on diligently. ACTUAL
CONSTRUCTION is hereby defined to include the placing of construction materials
in permanent position and fastened in a permanent manner. Where demolition or
removal of an existing building has been substantially begun preparatory to
rebuilding, the demolition or removal shall be deemed to be actual
construction, providing that work shall be carried out diligently.
(Ord. 87-27, § 580, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.381 SINGLE NON-CONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, a single-
family dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on a single
lot of record at the effective date of adoption or amendment of the ordinance
codified herein. This provision shall apply even though the lot fails to meet
the requirements for area or width, or both, that are generally applicable
within the district, provided that yard dimensions and requirements other than
those applying to area or width, or both, of the lot shall conform to the
regulations for the district in which such lot is located. Variances of
requirements of this chapter other than lot area or lot width shall be obtained
only through action of the Planning Commission as provided in §
155.403. No portion of any lot shall be used or sold in a manner which
diminishes compliance with lot width and area requirements established by this
chapter.
(Ord. 87-27, § 581, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.382 NON-CONFORMING USES OF LAND.
   Where, at the time of adoption of this chapter, lawful uses of land exist
which would not be permitted by this chapter, the uses may be continued so long
as they remain otherwise lawful, provided:
   (A)   No such non-conforming uses shall be enlarged or increased, nor
extended, to occupy more than 10% more of the area of land than was occupied at
the effective date of the adoption or amendment of this chapter;
   (B)   No such non-conforming uses shall be moved in whole or in part to any
portion of the lot or parcel other than that occupied by the uses at the
effective date of the adoption or amendment of this chapter;
   (C)   If any non-conforming uses of land are discontinued or abandoned for
more than six months, any subsequent use of such land shall conform to the
regulations specified by this chapter for the district in which such land is
located;
   (D)   No additional structure not conforming to the requirements of this
chapter shall be erected in connection with the non-conforming use of land.
(Ord. 87-27, § 582, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.383 NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Where a lawful structure exists at the effective date of the adoption or
amendment of this chapter that could not be built under the terms of this
chapter by reason of restrictions on area, lot coverage, height, yards, its
location on the lot, bulk, or other requirements concerning the structure, such
structure may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to
the following provisions:
   (A)   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this chapter
in the district in which it is located shall be enlarged or extended more than
10%, moved or structurally altered except in changing the use of the structure
to a use permitted in the district in which it is located;
   (B)   Should such non-conforming structure or non-conforming portion of a
structure be destroyed, it may not be reconstructed.
   (C)   Should any structure be moved for any reason for any distance
whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in
which it is located after it is moved.
(Ord. 87-27, § 583, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.384 NON-CONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES AND LAND IN COMBINATION.
   If a lawful use involving individual structures, or a structure and land in
combination, exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
chapter that would not be allowed in the district under the terms of this
chapter, the lawful use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise
lawful, subject to the following provisions:
   (A)   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this chapter
in the district in which it is located shall be enlarged or extended by more
than 10% moved or structurally altered except in changing the use of the
structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is located;
   (B)   Any non-conforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
building which were manifestly arranged or designed for such a use at the time
of adoption or amendment of this chapter, but no such use shall be extended to
occupy any land outside the building;
   (C)   Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on which a
non-conforming use is superseded by a permitted use for a period of two years,
shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district, and the non-
conforming use may not thereafter be resumed;
   (D)   When a non-conforming use of structure, or structure and land in
combination, is discontinued or abandoned for more than six months, the
structure or structure and land combination shall not thereafter be used except
in conformity with the regulations of the district in which it is located;
   (E)   Where non-conforming use status applies to a structure and land in
combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the non-
conforming status of the land.
(Ord. 87-27, § 584, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.385 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   On any non-conforming structure or portion of a structure containing a non-
conforming use, work may be done on ordinary repairs, or on repair or
replacement of walls, fixtures, wiring, or plumbing, provided that the cubic
content existing when it became non-conforming shall not be increased except as
herein above provided. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prevent the
strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof
declared to be unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public
safety, upon order of the official.
(Ord. 87-27, § 585, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.386 SINGLE DWELLING UNIT EXCEPTION.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §§
155.380 to
155.385 inclusive of this chapter, any one- or two-family dwelling unit located
in any use district in this village may be expanded, enlarged, repaired, or
rebuilt after demolition by any cause so long as its use is not changed from
that of a one- or two-family dwelling unit. The repair or rebuilding of the
dwelling unit shall result in a structure similar in size, shape, and character
to the previously existing structure. To facilitate the eventual conversion of
the property to a conforming use, the expansion or enlargement of the dwelling
unit shall be in compliance with the general structural, surface, and setback
requirements of the district in which the unit is located, and the prior
nonconforming use shall be preserved for such expansion or enlargement.
(Ord. 87-27, § 586, passed 7-7-1987; Am. Ord. 12-2018, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 155.387 ACCESSORY USE EXCEPTION.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §§
155.380 to
155.385 inclusive of this chapter, the owner or occupant of any one- or two-
family dwelling unit located in any use district may engage in any accessory
use or construct any accessory building that would be permitted in the R-1,
Residential District, in accordance with the provisions of §
155.091 above.
(Ord. 87-27, § 587, passed 7-7-1987)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 155.400 CREATION, APPOINTMENTS AND VACANCIES.
   There is hereby created a Village Planning Commission composed of the Mayor
of this village, one member of Village Council appointed by Council for his or
her term of office on Council and three residents of the village appointed by
the Mayor for six-year overlapping terms.
   (A)   In the event of the death of the Council member of the Commission, his
or her resignation from this Commission, or resignation from Council, Village
Council shall appoint another of its members to serve the remainder of the
unexpired term.
   (B)   In the event of the death or resignation of a citizen member of this
Commission, the Mayor shall appoint some other resident of this village for the
remainder of the unexpired term.
   (C)   The unexcused absence of any member of this Commission from three
consecutive monthly meetings or the establishing of a permanent residence
outside of this village shall be deemed a resignation.
(Ord. 87-27, § 600, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.401 ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS.
   The Planning Commission shall:
   (A)   Elect a chairperson, vice-chairperson and secretary from among its
members to serve for their term upon the Commission;
   (B)   Keep a complete record of its proceedings including the vote of each
member on all motions before the commission;
   (C)   Within the limits of the money appropriated for it, shall purchase
such supplies and equipment as it finds necessary to carry out its duties;
   (D)   Retain or otherwise employ within the limits of the money appropriated
for it, such consultants as it finds necessary to carry out its duties
   (E)   Establish a schedule for its meetings which shall include at least one
regular meeting per month and such additional meetings as are necessary to
carry out its duties; and
   (F)   Adopt rules and regulations to govern the conduct of its meetings.
(Ord. 87-27, § 601, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.402 CONDUCT OF MEETINGS.
   At least three members must be present at any meeting before any official
business can be conducted. An affirmative vote of three members shall be
necessary to pass any motion before the Commission. The abstention or refusal
to vote of any member shall not be counted for or against the motion and the
member so abstaining or refusing to vote shall be deemed absent for the purpose
of the motion upon which he or she abstains or refuses to vote. All meetings of
the Commission shall be open to the public at all times. Reasonable steps shall
be taken to notify the public and the news media of the time of all regular and
special meetings. All records of the Commission shall be public records and
shall be filed with the Financial Officer.
(Ord. 87-27, § 602, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.403 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Planning Commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To initiate amendments to this chapter including both changes in the
text or changes of the use district of any parcel of land;
   (B)   To review applications for amendments to this chapter and make
recommendations to Village Council thereon, including both changes in the text
or changes of the use district of any parcel of land whether initiated by
Village Council or initiated by any owner or leasee of the land in question;
   (C)   To review and approve or deny the platting or other subdivision of
land within this village in accordance with the village subdivision ordinance,
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances;
   (D)   To review and approve or deny site plans for the use of land within
this village for all uses except one- and two-family dwelling units. All site
plans shall be drawn on a scale of one inch to 20 feet;
   (E)   To grant variances in the use of land permitted in a particular
district where the proposed use is similar in character to the uses already
permitted in the district and the proposed use will be consistent with the
overall character of the district as stated in this chapter. No use variance
shall be permitted under this division where the effect of the variance would
be to rezone the land to another use district as, for example, where the use in
question is already expressly permitted in another use district;
   (F)   To grant variances from the literal requirements of the requirements
of this chapter where because of unique circumstances applicable to the
particular property under consideration, the literal application of a
particular provision of this chapter will cause undue hardship and the variance
will not be detrimental to the overall purpose of this chapter;
   (G)   To hear and decide appeals from any decision of the Zoning Inspector
in denying or granting a zoning or sign permit under this chapter;
   (H)   To issue conditional zoning permits where such permits are provided
for a particular use within a use district and where the Commission finds that
each of the specific conditions has been met or that the waiver of one or more
of the specific conditions will be in accordance with the standards herein
provided.
(Ord. 87-27, § 603, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.404 HEARINGS BEFORE PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   All appeals to the Planning Commission from any decision of the Zoning
Inspector shall be filed within 30 days of the decision appealed. It shall be
initiated by filing with the Financial Officer, a written appeal on the form
provided and must be accompanied by the fee required by §
155.446 below.
   (B)   All requests for variances or conditional permits to the Planning
Commission shall be filed with the Financial Officer, or with the Planning
Commission when in open session, on a form provided and shall be accompanied
with the appropriate fee required by §
155.446 below.
   (C)   Hearings on appeals or on applications for variances shall be held at
the next regular Planning Commission meeting occurring more than 14 days after
the application is filed or at such special meeting called for this purpose.
The 14-day requirement herein may be waived by the Commission for good cause
shown.
   (D)   At the hearing on variances, all testimony shall be received under
oath or affirmation, a verbatim record of the proceedings shall be kept, the
application shall be allowed upon application and deposit of fees to the
issuance of subpoenas for the attendance of witnesses, all testimony shall be
subject to cross examination.
   (E)   The Commission shall render its decision within a reasonable time
after the hearing not to exceed 60 days and advise the applicant in writing
thereof.
(Ord. 87-27, §604, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.405 NOTICE OF HEARING ON VARIANCE.
   The Financial Officer of this village shall give notice of the time and
place of the public hearing on all requests for variances by first-class mail
at least ten days prior to the hearing to all owners of property within,
contiguous to and directly across the street from the parcel or parcels
involved. The notice shall be mailed to the address listed in the current
county auditor's tax duplicate. The failure of delivery of the notice shall not
invalidate any subsequent action with respect to the proposed variance.
(Ord. 87-27, § 605, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.406 ZONING INSPECTOR; CREATION AND APPOINTMENT.
   There is hereby created the position of Zoning Inspector for the village.
The Zoning Inspector shall be appointed by the Mayor and may be removed by the
Mayor at any time. He or she shall be paid such compensation as Council shall
direct.
(Ord. 87-27, § 606, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.407 ZONING INSPECTOR; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Zoning Inspector shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To issue zoning permits for one- and two-family dwelling units and
accessory uses thereto, provided the proposed use is permitted under this
chapter and the applicant has paid the appropriate application fee at time of
filing.
   (B)   To issue sign permits provided the proposed sign is in accordance with
this chapter and the applicant has paid the proper application fee at the time
of filing.
   (C)   To issue zoning permits for business and industrial uses and accessory
uses thereto, after the site plan has been approved by the Planning Commission
and the applicant has paid the proper application fee at the time of filing.
   (D)   To issue conditional zoning permits and variance permits after
approval by the Planning Commission and applicant has paid the proper
application fee at the time of filing.
   (E)   To investigate alleged violations of this chapter.
   (F)   To attend all regular and special meetings of the Planning Commission
and such other meetings as the Mayor or Council shall direct.
   (G)   (1)   To keep records of all activities of his or her office and to
report monthly at the first meeting of a month to Village Council as to the
various classes of permits issued during the month. Give written report the
first meeting in January to the Village Council as to all various classes of
permits issued during the preceding year.
      (2)   The Zoning Inspector shall within ten days after receipt of an
application issue a zoning certificate if the application complies with the
requirements of this chapter and the application is accompanied by a proper
fee. If the certificate is refused, the applicant shall be notified in writing
of such refusal and cause within ten days.
   (H)   To determine that all construction has occurred only in accordance
with the provisions of any permit, conditional permit or variance issued;
   (I)   To perform such other duties as the Council, Planning Commission of
the Mayor directs with respect to the enforcement of this chapter;
   (J)   To maintain the official zoning map of the village and make all
changes of use districts thereon immediately after their approval by Council.
(Ord. 87-27, § 607, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.408 VARIANCES.
   The Commission shall have the following powers and duties: To grant use or
area variances in the use of land permitted in a particular district where the
proposed use is similar in character to the uses already permitted in the
district and the proposed use will be consistent with the overall character of
the district as stated in the resolution.
   (A)   The Commission shall not grant a use variance unless it finds that all
of the following conditions apply to the case in question:
      (1)   There are special circumstances or conditions applying to the land,
building or use referred to in the application, which circumstances were not
created by the applicant.
      (2)   The granting of a variance application is necessary for the
preservation and enjoyment of substantial property rights.
      (3)   The granting of the application will not materially affect,
adversely, the health or safety of persons residing or working in the
neighborhood of the proposed use and will not be materially detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to property or improvements in such neighborhood.
   (B)   The Commission shall not grant an area variance unless the property
owner has encountered practical difficulties in the use of his or her property.
The factors to be considered and weighted by the Commission are:
      (1)   Whether the property in question will yield a reasonable return or
whether there can be any beneficial use of the property without the variance.
      (2)   Whether the variance is substantial.
      (3)   Whether the essential character of the neighborhood would be
substantially altered or whether adjoining properties would suffer a
substantial detriment as a result of the variance.
      (4)   Whether the variance would adversely affect the delivery of
governmental services (e.g. water, sewer, garbage).
      (5)   Whether the property owner purchased the property with knowledge of
the zoning restriction.
      (6)   Whether the property owner's predicament feasibly can be obviated
through some method other than a variance.
      (7)   (a)   Whether the spirit and intent behind the zoning requirement
would be required to be observed and substantial justice done by granting the
variance.
         (b)   In granting any variance under the provisions of this section,
the Commission shall designate such conditions in connection therewith as will,
in the opinion, secure substantially the objectives of the regulations or
provisions in the application on which the variance is granted.
(Ord. 87-27, § 609, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 28-06, passed 7-17-2006)
§ 155.409 ADDITIONAL CONDITIONS.
   The Planning Commission may, in addition to the specific conditions listed
in this chapter, also impose any of the following conditions as a further
condition upon the granting of the conditional zoning permit in the interest of
protecting the public health, safety, welfare, preserving property values of
surrounding properties and the village as a whole and the aesthetic values of
the village.
   (A)   The location, width, radius and number of driveways entering onto any
public street;
   (B)   The requirement that barriers be established to prevent access to a
public street at any other location than established driveways;
   (C)   A limitation upon access to certain public streets where there are
more than one public street abutting the property;
   (D)   Limitations upon the use of required setbacks for the parking of motor
vehicles, storage or display of goods for sale or use;
   (E)   Limitations on the intensity and location of lighting and requirements
that lighting be shielded from adjoining properties;
   (F)   Requirements that surface water be detained, channelized or otherwise
carried from the property to public storm sewers so as to avoid injury to
adjoining properties;
   (G)   Requirements that culverts be installed parallel to the road under any
proposed driveway so as not to interfere with the existing flow of surface
water. The size of the culvert shall be determined based upon accepted
engineering standards.
(Ord. 87-27, § 610, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.410 APPLICATION FOR ZONING PERMIT.
   All applications for zoning permits shall be made upon forms provided by the
Zoning Inspector. Each application shall be accompanied by a site plan of the
entire parcel drawn to a scale of one inch equals 20 feet. Each application
shall be accompanied by the appropriate fee required by §
155.446 below. If the application meets all the requirements of this chapter,
the Zoning Inspector shall issue the permit. The Zoning Inspector shall grant
or deny the permit within 30 days of the filing of a complete application. If
no decision is made within 30 days, the zoning permit shall be issued.
(Ord. 87-27, §611, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 20-05, passed 7-5-2005
§ 155.411 APPLICATION FOR CONDITIONAL PERMIT.
   All applications for conditional zoning permits shall be made upon forms
provided by the Zoning Inspector. Each application shall be accompanied by site
plan of the entire parcel drawn to a scale of one inch equals 20 feet. Each
application shall be accompanied by the fee as established hereafter. The
application shall be considered at the next regular meeting of the Planning
Commission occurring more than seven days after filing, or at a special meeting
called for this purpose. Notice shall be given to the applicant at the time the
application is received of the date of the meeting at which the application
will be considered. The Planning Commission may waive the time limit of this
section for good cause.
(Ord. 87-27, § 612, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.412 OWNER'S CONSENT.
   All applications for any permit under this chapter shall be signed by the
landowner or be accompanied by written evidence that the landowner has
authorized the application to be filed.
(Ord. 87-27, §613, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.413 VIOLATIONS OF CONDITIONS.
   Any zoning permit or conditional zoning permit issued under this chapter
shall be valid only so long as each and every condition imposed by this chapter
or the Planning Commission shall be complied with by the landowner or tenant.
Any violation of any of the conditions of the permit shall be deemed to void
the permit and make the continued use of the land a violation of this chapter
which may be prosecuted or enjoined under §§
155.440 to
155.445 and
155.999 below.
(Ord. 87-27, § 614, passed 7-7-1987)
AMENDMENTS
§ 155.425 AMENDMENTS.
   The provisions of this chapter and the official village zoning map may from
time to time be amended by Village Council by ordinance. Th amendments may be
initiated in any one of the following manners:
   (A)   By filing an application with the Financial Officer of this village on
a form provided by the Zoning Inspector and signed by the owner of the land
seeking the amendment or by any interested person seeking an amendment to the
text of this chapter. The application must be accompanied by the fee provided
in §
155.446;
   (B)   By motion of the Village Council directed to the Planning Commission
and requesting a recommendation concerning an amendment to the text of this
chapter or a change of the use district of any parcel of land within this
village.
   (C)   By motion of the Planning Commission directed to Village Council
recommending an amendment to the text of this chapter or a change of a use
district of any parcel of land.
(Ord. 87-27, § 700, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.426 AMENDMENT PROCEDURE; PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application to amend this chapter or the adoption
of a motion by Council to amend it, the application or motion shall be referred
to the Planning Commission. Planning Commission shall consider the application
or motion at its next regular meeting or at a special meeting called for this
purpose.
   (B)   Upon review and consideration of the proposed amendment the Planning
Commission shall make a report to Council. The report shall:
      (1)   Recommend that the rezone or amendment to the text be adopted in
accordance with the application or Council motion; or
      (2)   Recommend that the rezone or amendment to the text be adopted in a
form modified by the Commission from the application or motion as originally
submitted to the Planning Commission; or
      (3)   Recommend that the application for the rezone or amendment to the
text be denied.
   (C)   All recommendations of the Planning Commission shall be concurred by
at least three members of the Commission. The recommendation shall be returned
to Council no later than Council's second regular meeting after submission of
the proposed amendment or application to the Planning Commission. The failure
of the Commission to make a recommendation in the time provided herein shall be
deemed to be a recommendation in favor of the amendment or rezone.
(Ord. 87-27, § 701, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.427 PUBLIC HEARING.
   Upon receipt of a recommendation on an amendment or rezone from the Planning
Commission, or an amendment or rezone initiated by Planning Commission, Council
shall set a public hearing upon the proposed amendment or rezone which shall be
held no earlier than 30 days after notice of this hearing has been given by one
publication in a newspaper of general circulation within this village. The
hearing may be held at either a regular or special Council meeting.
(Ord. 87-27, § 702, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.428 NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNERS.
   In the event the proposed amendment involves the rezone of ten or fewer
parcels of land as listed on the county auditor's current tax duplicate, the
Financial Officer of this village shall also give notice of the time and place
of said public hearing by first class mail at least 20 days before the hearing
to all owners of property within, contiguous to and directly across the street
from the parcel or parcels involved. The notice shall be mailed to the address
listed on the current county auditor's tax duplicate. The failure of delivery
of the notice shall not invalidate any subsequent action with respect to the
proposed amendment. During the 30-day period specified above, the ordinance
containing the proposed amendment along with the application and any map and
the report of the Planning Commission along with any other documents relating
thereto shall be on file in the office of the Financial Officer for public
inspection.
(Ord. 87-27, § 703, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.429 COUNCIL ACTION.
   The proposed amendment shall be placed before Council in the form of an
amendment to this chapter and may be voted upon at the same meeting at which
the public hearing is held or at a subsequent regular or special meeting. Any
amendment which differs in any respect from the recommendation of the Planning
Commission may be adopted only by a three-fourths vote of Village Council. Any
amendment which is in all respects in accordance with the recommendations of
the Planning Commission may be adopted by a majority vote of Council. All
amendments shall go into effect in 30 days of adoption unless the ordinance
adopting the same is declared to be an emergency measure, in which case the
amendments shall go into immediate effect.
(Ord. 87-27, § 704, passed 7-7-1987)
VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 155.440 VIOLATIONS, PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT.
   No person shall build or remodel any structure or building so as to change
its exterior dimensions, including the building or remodeling of accessory
buildings or change any use or a structure or change the use of land within
this village without first obtaining a zoning permit or conditional zoning
permit as required by this chapter. No person shall fail to comply with all
terms and conditions of any zoning permit or conditional zoning permit issued
hereunder.
(Ord. 87-27, § 800, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.441 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Any person who commences any building, remodeling or change in the use of
any structure or land without first obtaining the appropriate permit under this
chapter, or who violates any provision of a zoning or conditional zoning
permit, shall upon discovery be given a written notice to apply for the
appropriate permit or cease the violation of the provision immediately.
(Ord. 87-27, § 801, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.442 ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.
   In addition, whoever constructs or remodels any structure or building or
uses any land without obtaining the permit required by this chapter or violates
any provision of a zoning or conditional zoning permit, may be subject to
action for an injunction, declaratory relief or other appropriate remedy
instituted by this village to abate or prevent the violation. The village shall
not be required to exhaust other remedies provided in this chapter as a
condition precedent to the commencement of such civil relief.
(Ord. 87-27, § 803, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.443 AUTHORITY OF OTHER INJURED PROPERTY OWNER.
   Any landowner who will be particularly damaged by any violation of this may
proceed by way of injunction, declaratory relief or other appropriate remedy
against the violator to abate or prevent the violation. The failure of the
village to commence such proceedings shall not preclude such landowner from
commencing such action. Demand upon the village or its solicitor shall not be
required as a prerequisite to the commencement of such action nor shall the
village be a necessary party thereto.
(Ord. 87-27, § 804, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.444 PARTIES.
   In any action whether criminal or civil brought in respect to this chapter,
either the landowner or the person or corporation actually violating the
chapter shall be a proper party defendant.
(Ord. 87-27, § 805, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.445 EXPIRATION OF A PERMIT.
   (A)   Whenever a zoning permit or conditional zoning permit is issued, the
construction under such permit shall begin within six months after issuance and
shall be completed within 18 months after issuance.
   (B)   Upon written application and upon the showing of good cause to the
Planning Commission, an additional period of time to begin or complete
construction may be granted. Whenever construction is not begun or completed
within the time specified in this section including any extension granted by
the Planning Commission, the zoning permit or conditional zoning permit shall
expire and no further use of the land for which such a permit is required shall
be allowed until another permit is issued.
(Ord. 87-27, § 806, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 155.446 FEES.
   No application for a zoning permit, conditional zoning permit, variance,
appeal or application for rezone or amendment to this chapter shall be accepted
unless the applicant shall pay to the Village Zoning Inspector the following
fees:
Zoning Permits
Appeal to Planning Commission                   $20
Application for rezone or amendment to chapter  $200
Architectural district (see §
155.032)
Business additions, extensions, enlargements    $20
Business or industrial signs                    $1/sq. ft.
Business use                                    $20
Conditional zoning permit                       $50
Fence permit - all districts                    $10
Industrial use                                  $50
Residential uses:
   Accessory building - less than 200 sq. ft.$10
   Accessory building - 200 sq. ft. or more  $20
   Decks or porches                          $10
   Fences                                    $10
   Multi-family dwelling - per building      $50
   Non-residential permitted use - per buildi$20
   One-family dwelling                       $20
   Two-family dwelling                       $20
Variance                                        $50
Variance for fencing/screening                  $10
Variance for signs                              $25
 
(Ord. 52-04, 10-18-2004; 43-04, passed 7-19-2004; Ord. 26-06, passed 7-17-2006)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   Whoever fails to obtain the proper permit or remedy the violation of the
provisions of the zoning or conditional zoning permit within ten days after
having been advised in writing to do so, shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor
and upon conviction shall be fined not more than $100. Any subsequent
conviction thereto, the fine shall not exceed $500. Each day such violation or
failure to comply shall exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 87-27, § 802, passed 7-7-1987)
APPENDIX A: APPLICATION FOR ZONING PERMIT
 
Editor's Note: Appendix A through Appendix H are available in PDF, click HERE
FEE $                                           
1.   Applicant's Name
                                                                                                             
Address
                                                                                                                            
   Phone #
                                                                                                                            
2.   Property Owner
                                                                                                                
Address
                                                                                                                            
Phone #
                                                                                                                             
3.   Location of property
                                                                                                         
4.   Zoning District
                                                                                                                 
5.   Applicant hereby applies for a zoning permit for the following use:
                      One-family dwelling unit                               
Two-family dwelling unit
                     Multi-family dwelling unit – number of units
                                                
                     Accessory building (Describe)
                                                                      
                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                        
             Other residential use                 Business                    
Industrial                     Other
Describe
                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                       
6.   Parcel Description
Frontage                        Depth                             Area
                            X                          
7.   Building Description
Width                                                                Depth
                                                
Number of stories                                             Height
                                               
8.   Setbacks
Left side                                                            Right side
                                         
Front                                                                 Rear
                                                  
Width at setback                                        
9.   Site Plan
An accurate diagram/blueprint must be attached showing the location of the
building to be constructed, all existing buildings on the property with their
dimensions, boundaries and division of property abutting streets and
properties, and any greenbelt requirement landscaping.
10.   Sewer System
Public or EPA approved                                          Private
                                              
11.   Paid
Cash                                                       Check
                                                         
Date                                                       Receipt No.
                                                  
Unless construction begins within six (6) months from date of issuance or is
completed within eighteen (18) months, the Zoning Permit will be revoked.
NOTICE:
Applicant acknowledges that construction or use of this land is authorized only
in accordance with the representations on this application and accompanying
site plan and must conform with all provisions of the Bellville Zoning
Ordinance. Separate permits may be needed from Richland County Codes and
Permits Department, Richland County Health Department and the Village of
Bellville Water Department.
Approval by the Zoning Inspector of this document shall constitute a zoning
permit.
Date                                                        Applicant's
Signature                                    
Based upon the information contained in this application and the accompanying
site plan, a zoning certificate is:
Approved                                     Denied
                             
Reason for denial
                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                        
                                                           
                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                       
Date                                                      Zoning Inspector
                                          
APPENDIX B: FENCE PERMIT APPLICATION
 
Editor's Note: Appendix A through Appendix H are available in PDF, click HERE
FEES               PAID               CASH                CHECK           
RECEIPT #             
APPLICANTS NAME
                                                                                                      
PHONE NUMBER                                                
PROPERTY OWNER
                                                                                                       
ADDRESS
                                                                                                                       
PHONE NUMBER                                                
PRIVACY FENCE                                    DECORATIVE FENCE
                              
DESCRIPTION OF FENCE INCLUDING SIZE, MATERIALS, AND HEIGHT                     
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                          
DIAGRAM OF YOUR PROPERTY WITH THE LOCATION OF THE PROPOSED FENCE SHOWING SET
BACKS – PLEASE ATTACH
ZONING DISTRICT                                               
BASED UPON THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS APPLICATION AND ACCOMPANYING
DIAGRAM, THIS FENCE PERMIT IS –
APPROVED                                   
DENIED                                         
REASON FOR DENIAL
                                                                                                    
DATE                                       
SIGNATURE OF ZONING INSPECTOR
                                                                         
APPENDIX C: APPLICATION FOR A CONDITIONAL ZONING PERMIT
 
Editor's Note: Appendix A through Appendix I are available in PDF, click HERE
FEE $                      
1.   Applicant's Name
                                                                                                              
Address
                                                                                                                            
Phone Number
                                                                                                                  
2.   The undersigned requests a conditional zoning permit for property located
at                            
                         and zoned                                    district,
for the following use:
                                                                                                                                       
3.   Attached as part of this application are:
A.   A copy of the zoning application.
B.   Complete plan improvement specifications for any proposed use/building.
4.   Paid: Cash           Check                 Date                   Receipt
No.              
                                                                                                                        
Date                     Applicant's Name
CONDITIONAL ZONING PERMIT
A conditional zoning permit is hereby granted in accordance with this
application and subject to the
following conditions established by this Planning Commission and approved by
Village Council under
Section                                                            .
                                                                                                                     
Date                  Planning Commission Chairman
APPENDIX D: APPLICATION FOR A SIGN PERMIT
 
Editor's Note: Appendix A through Appendix I are available in PDF, click HERE
FEE $                
1.   Applicant's Name
                                                                                                               
Address
                                                                                                                             
Phone Number
                                                                                                                   
2.   Property Owner                                                   
Address
                                                                                                                             
Phone Number
                                                                                                                    
3.   Licensed Sign Erector's Name
                                                                                            
Address
                                                                                                                             
Phone Number
                                                                                                                    
4.   Description of sign including size, materials and height:
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                 
5.   A diagram of the proposed sign and its location on the property is
attached.
                                                                                                                     
Date                        Applicant's Name
6.   Paid: Cash                     Check                  Date
                Receipt No.              
Based upon the information contained in this application and accompanying
diagrams, a sign permit is:
Approved                                                 Denied
                                                        
Reason for denial
                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                 
Date                              Signature
APPENDIX E: APPLICATION FOR APPEAL
 
Editor's Note: Appendix A through Appendix I are available in PDF, click HERE
FEE $                               
1.   Applicant's Name
                                                                                                             
Address
                                                                                                                           
Phone Number
                                                                                                                 
2.   The undersigned hereby appeals to the Planning Commission of the Village
of Bellville, Ohio from the decision of the Zoning Inspector on
                                                denying a zoning/sign permit.
3.   Attached as part of this application are:
A.   A copy of the zoning/sign application.
B.   Complete plan improvement specifications for any proposed use/building.
4.   Paid: Cash              Check                   Date
                   Receipt No.                
                                                                                                                          
Date                              Zoning Inspector
APPENDIX F: APPLICATION FOR A VARIANCE
 
Editor's Note: Appendix A through Appendix I are available in PDF, click HERE
FEE $                     
1.   Applicant's Name
                                                                                                            
Address
                                                                                                                          
Phone Number
                                                                                                                 
2.   The undersigned request a variance for property located at
                                                           and zoned
                                                      district
for the following purpose:
                                                                                                 
3.   The section of this Ordinance to be varied is
                                                                     .
4.   The undue hardship or practical difficulties which justify this variance
areas follows:
                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                      
5.   Attached as part of this application are:
A.   A copy of the zoning application.
B.   Complete plan improvement specifications for any proposed use or building.
6.   Paid: Cash                  Check                  Date
                 Receipt No.                      
                                                                                                                           
Date                              Applicants Name
APPENDIX G: VARIANCE ZONING PERMIT
 
Editor's Note: Appendix A through Appendix I are available in PDF, click HERE
   A variance is hereby granted in accordance with this application and subject
to the following conditions established by the Planning Commission and approved
by the Planning Commission under Section
                                                     .
                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                            
Date                                 Planning Commission Chairperson
APPENDIX H: APPLICATION FOR AMENDMENT TO THE ZONING ORDINANCE
 
Editor's Note: Appendix A through Appendix I are available in PDF, click HERE
FEE $                     
Applicant's Name
                                                                                                                   
Address
                                                                                                                                 
Phone Number
                                                                                                                       
                           Application to Rezone Land
                                Application to Amend Text
The undersigned hereby applies for the following amendment to the zoning
Ordinance of the Village of Bellville, Ohio:
APPLICATION TO REZONE LAND
Current zone district
                                                                   
Proposed zone district
                                                                 
Legal description and address of property:
                                                                                                                                             
APPLICATION TO AMEND TEXT
Section or sections to be amended
                                                                                             
Text of proposed amendment:
                                                                                                  
                                                             
                                                                                                                                             
Paid: Cash                 Check                     Date
                       Receipt No.                    
                                                                             
   Applicant’s Name
APPENDIX I: CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
 
Editor's Note: Appendix A through Appendix I are available in PDF, click HERE
1.   Applicant's Name
                                                                                                             
Address
                                                                                                                           
Phone Number
                                                                                                                 
2.   The undersigned request a certificate of appropriateness for property
located at               
                                                                        
and zoned                                                                  
district.
3.   Setbacks:
Left side                                                     Right side
                                                   
Front                                                           Rear
                                                             
Width at setback
                                                                 
4.   Height of Building
                                                              
5.   The following information must be provided:
A.   Sketches and data of the proposed building or improvement
B.   Window treatment, which shall include the size, shape and materials of
each individual window unit
C.   Exterior detail showing all projecting and receding elements of the
exterior including, but not limited to porches and overhangs and the horizontal
or vertical expression which is conveyed by these elements.
D.   Roof shape including type, form and materials
E.   All exterior materials to be used including texture and color
F.   Landscape design and material which should include in addition to
requirements of this Zoning Code, lighting and the use of landscape details to
highlight architectural features or screen or soften undesirable views
G.   Signage which shall include in addition to the requirements of §§
155.285 et seq. the appropriateness of signage to the building
6.   Other additional information may be requested if deemed necessary.
Unless construction of building or improvement begins in six (6) months from
date of issuance or is completed within eighteen (18) months, this certificate
of appropriateness will be evoked.
NOTICE:
Applicant acknowledges that construction or use of this land is authorized only
in accordance with the representation on this application and accompanying site
plan and must conform with all provisions of the Bellville Zoning Ordinance.
                                                                                                                                       
Applicant's Signature                     Date
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
A certificate of appropriateness is hereby granted in accordance with this
application and subject to the following conditions established by this Board
of Architectural Review and approved by the Planning Commission.
                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                 
Date                                 Zoning Inspector
                                                                                                                                  
Date                                 Planning Commission Chairperson
(Ord. 87-27, Exh. A, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 43-04, passed 7-19-2004)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   [Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Ohio Revised Code
References to Resolutions
References to Motions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OHIO REVISED CODE
Editor’s Note:
   References to R.C. Sections for Titles VII and XIII are be found in front of
each title
R.C. Section Code Section
R.C. Section Code Section
1.01         10.01
1.02         10.02
1.05         10.02
1.14         10.03
1.15         10.03
1.23         10.05
1.42         10.03
1.43         10.03
1.44         10.02
1.45         10.03
1.46         10.03
1.47         10.18
1.48         10.18
1.49         10.18
1.50         10.07
1.51         10.06
1.52         10.06
1.54         10.04
1.55         10.05
1.56         10.05
1.57         10.04
1.58         10.04
1.59         10.02
149.01.1(G)  38.340,
             38.840
149.43       38.340,
             38.840
701.01       10.02
711.131      Ch. 154, App. B
721.15       38.290,
             38.790
737.16       38.060
737.171      38.060
4506         38.240,
             38.740
4507         38.240,
             38.740
             
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
33-72    10-2-1972   35.137
42-72    12-15-1972  35.004
13-77    4-5-1977    30.02
5-87     2-17-1987   32.15
28-87    6-16-1987   35.137
37-87    7-21-1987   35.137
46-87    9-15-1987   35.137
31-89    12-5-1989   33.03
1-90     1-16-1990   33.03
40-92    12-21-1992  32.01
21-98    11-16-1998  31.01
16-99    8-16-1999   31.04
27-00    10-2-2000   50.03
33-00    12-18-2000  35.137
12-01    7-2-2001    35.137
05-04    2-16-2004   33.02
09-04    4-1-2004    31.04
15-04    4-1-2004    31.06
35-05    9-6-2005    33.01
13-07    4-2-2007    50.03
31-07    9-17-2007   36.01
42-07    12-17-2007  Title VII, App. B, Sch. II
15-08    4-21-2008   35.002
08-43    10-20-2008  37.01 -
                     37.08
08-45    12-29-2008  30.15 -
                     30.36
2010-100 12-29-2010  31.01
2010-101 12-29-2010  31.02
2011-125 5-17-2011   31.03
01-2012  1-3-2012    35.004
02-2012  1-3-2012    35.004
2012-7   2-7-2012    33.02
12-45    10-2-2012   51.999
2013-29  10-1-2013   50.03
2013-30  10-1-2013   51.037
24-2015  8-18-2015   51.0561
                     51.042,
4-2016   2-2-2016    51.044 -
                     51.047
17-2020  4-21-2020   51.041,
                     51.0411
18-2020  5-5-2020    50.03
                    
 
REFERENCES TO MOTIONS
 
Motion No. Date Passed Code Section
–        6-2-1987    155.303
2011-104   1-3-2011    30.01
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.                       Date Passed Code Section
7-71                           2-15-1971   31.04
40-72                          12-1-1972   35.022
                                           114.01 -
26-73                          5-1-1973    114.11,
                                           114.99
13-75                          3-3-1975    32.16
21-75                          5-15-1975   Title VII, App. B, Sch. II
22-75                          5-15-1975   Title XIII, A-6
                                           113.01 -
54-75                          12-1-1975   113.05,
                                           113.99
35-78                          9-1-1978    35.015
                                           51.015 -
15-79                          4-2-1979    51.019,
                                           51.080,
                                           51.999
34-79                          8-1-1979    150.01
35-79                          8-1-1979    150.15
19-80                          5-6-1980    Title XIII, A-2
20-81                          5-19-1981   Title XIII, A-5
                                           92.15,
29-81                          8-18-1981   92.16,
                                           92.99
15-83                          7-5-1983    95.01,
                                           95.99
25-84                          11-6-1984   Title VII, App. C, Sch. II
35-84                          12-18-1984  Title VII, App. C, Sch. III
36-84                          12-18-1984  90.16
2-85                           3-5-1985    31.05
5-85                           5-7-1985    150.02
14-85                          7-2-1985    31.05
86-12                          3-18-1986   Title VII, App. C, Sch. IV
                                           94.01 -
14-86                          4-1-1986    94.09,
                                           94.99
17-86                          4-15-1986   Title VII, A-2
21-86                          5-20-1986   90.50 -
                                           90.52
22-86                          5-20-1986   Title VII, App. C, Sch. II
43-86                          11-18-1986  31.05
45-86                          11-18-1986  90.03
                                           50.15 -
17-87                          4-21-1987   50.19,
                                           50.99
23-87                          5-5-1987    35.023
87-27, § 100                  7-7-1987    155.001
87-27, § 101                  7-7-1987    155.002
87-27, § 102                  7-7-1987    155.003
87-27, § 103                  7-7-1987    155.004
87-27, § 104                  7-7-1987    155.005
87-27, § 105                  7-7-1987    155.006
87-27, § 106                  7-7-1987    155.007
87-27, § 107                  7-7-1987    155.008
87-27, § 108                  7-7-1987    155.009
87-27, § 109                  7-7-1987    155.010
87-27, § 110                  7-7-1987    155.011
87-27, § 111                  7-7-1987    155.012
87-27, § 112                  7-7-1987    155.013
87-27, § 115                  7-7-1987    155.015
87-27, § 120                  7-7-1987    155.030
87-27, § 121                  7-7-1987    155.031
87-27, § 122                  7-7-1987    155.032
87-27, § 123                  7-7-1987    155.033
87-27, § 124                  7-7-1987    155.034
87-27, § 125                  7-7-1987    155.035
87-27, § 126                  7-7-1987    155.036
87-27, § 130                  7-7-1987    155.050
87-27, § 131                  7-7-1987    155.051
87-27, § 132                  7-7-1987    155.052
87-27, § 133                  7-7-1987    155.053
87-27, § 150                  7-7-1987    155.065
87-27, § 151                  7-7-1987    155.066
87-27, § 152                  7-7-1987    155.067
87-27, § 153                  7-7-1987    155.068
87-27, § 154                  7-7-1987    155.069
87-27, § 155                  7-7-1987    155.070
87-27, § 156                  7-7-1987    155.071
87-27, § 157                  7-7-1987    155.072
87-27, § 158                  7-7-1987    155.073
87-27, § 159                  7-7-1987    155.074
87-27, § 160                  7-7-1987    155.075
87-27, § 161                  7-7-1987    155.076
87-27, § 162                  7-7-1987    155.077
87-27, § 163                  7-7-1987    155.078
87-27, § 164                  7-7-1987    155.079
87-27, § 200                  7-7-1987    155.090
87-27, § 201                  7-7-1987    155.091
87-27, § 202                  7-7-1987    155.092
87-27, § 203                  7-7-1987    155.093
87-27, § 204                  7-7-1987    155.094
87-27, § 205                  7-7-1987    155.095
87-27, § 206                  7-7-1987    155.096
87-27, § 207                  7-7-1987    155.097
87-27, § 208                  7-7-1987    155.098
87-27, § 209                  7-7-1987    155.099
87-27, § 210                  7-7-1987    155.100
87-27, § 211                  7-7-1987    155.101
87-27, § 212                  7-7-1987    155.102
87-27, § 213                  7-7-1987    155.103
87-27, § 214                  7-7-1987    155.104
87-27, § 215                  7-7-1987    155.105
87-27, § 216                  7-7-1987    155.106
87-27, § 217                  7-7-1987    155.107
87-27, § 218                  7-7-1987    155.108
87-27, § 240                  7-7-1987    155.120
87-27, § 241                  7-7-1987    155.121
87-27, § 242                  7-7-1987    155.122
87-27, § 243                  7-7-1987    155.123
87-27, § 244                  7-7-1987    155.124
87-27, § 245                  7-7-1987    155.125
87-27, § 246                  7-7-1987    155.126
87-27, § 247                  7-7-1987    155.127
87-27, § 248                  7-7-1987    155.128
87-27, § 249                  7-7-1987    155.129
87-27, § 250                  7-7-1987    155.130
87-27, § 251                  7-7-1987    155.131
87-27, § 252                  7-7-1987    155.132
87-27, § 253                  7-7-1987    155.133
87-27, § 254                  7-7-1987    155.134
87-27, § 255                  7-7-1987    155.135
87-27, § 256                  7-7-1987    155.136
87-27, § 270                  7-7-1987    155.150
87-27, § 300                  7-7-1987    155.160
87-27, § 301                  7-7-1987    155.161
87-27, § 302                  7-7-1987    155.162
87-27, § 303                  7-7-1987    155.163
87-27, § 304                  7-7-1987    155.164
87-27, § 305                  7-7-1987    155.165
87-27, § 306                  7-7-1987    155.166
87-27, § 307                  7-7-1987    155.167
87-27, § 308                  7-7-1987    155.168
87-27, § 309                  7-7-1987    155.169
87-27, § 310                  7-7-1987    155.170
87-27, § 311                  7-7-1987    155.171
87-27, § 312                  7-7-1987    155.172
87-27, § 313                  7-7-1987    155.173
87-27, § 314                  7-7-1987    155.174
87-27, § 340                  7-7-1987    155.185
87-27, § 341                  7-7-1987    155.186
87-27, § 342                  7-7-1987    155.187
87-27, § 343                  7-7-1987    155.188
87-27, § 344                  7-7-1987    155.189
87-27, § 345                  7-7-1987    155.190
87-27, § 346                  7-7-1987    155.191
87-27, § 347                  7-7-1987    155.192
87-27, § 348                  7-7-1987    155.193
87-27, § 349                  7-7-1987    155.194
87-27, § 350                  7-7-1987    155.195
87-27, § 351                  7-7-1987    155.196
87-27, § 352                  7-7-1987    155.197
87-27, § 353                  7-7-1987    155.198
87-27, § 354                  7-7-1987    155.199
87-27, § 355                  7-7-1987    155.200
87-27, § 356                  7-7-1987    155.201
87-27, § 365.1                7-7-1987    155.215
87-27, § 365.2                7-7-1987    155.216
87-27, § 366                  7-7-1987    155.217
87-27, § 367                  7-7-1987    155.218
87-27, § 368                  7-7-1987    155.219
87-27, § 369                  7-7-1987    155.220
87-27, § 370                  7-7-1987    155.221
87-27, § 371                  7-7-1987    155.222
87-27, § 372                  7-7-1987    155.223
87-27, § 373                  7-7-1987    155.224
87-27, § 374                  7-7-1987    155.225
87-27, § 375                  7-7-1987    155.226
87-27, § 385                  7-7-1987    155.240
87-27, § 400                  7-7-1987    155.250
87-27, § 401                  7-7-1987    155.251
87-27, § 402                  7-7-1987    155.252
87-27, § 403                  7-7-1987    155.253
87-27, § 404                  7-7-1987    155.254
87-27, § 405                  7-7-1987    155.255
87-27, § 406                  7-7-1987    155.256
87-27, § 407                  7-7-1987    155.257
87-27, § 408                  7-7-1987    155.258
87-27, § 409                  7-7-1987    155.259
87-27, § 410                  7-7-1987    155.260
87-27, § 411                  7-7-1987    155.261
87-27, § 412                  7-7-1987    155.262
87-27, § 413                  7-7-1987    155.263
87-27, § 414                  7-7-1987    155.264
87-27, § 415                  7-7-1987    155.265
87-27, § 420                  7-7-1987    155.275
87-27, § 500                  7-7-1987    155.285
87-27, § 501                  7-7-1987    155.286
87-27, § 502                  7-7-1987    155.287
87-27, § 503                  7-7-1987    155.288
87-27, § 504                  7-7-1987    155.289
87-27, § 505                  7-7-1987    155.290
87-27, § 506                  7-7-1987    155.291
87-27, § 507                  7-7-1987    155.292
87-27, § 508                  7-7-1987    155.293
87-27, § 509                  7-7-1987    155.294
87-27, § 510                  7-7-1987    155.295
87-27, § 511                  7-7-1987    155.296
87-27, § 512                  7-7-1987    155.297
87-27, § 513                  7-7-1987    155.298
87-27, § 514                  7-7-1987    155.299
87-27, § 515                  7-7-1987    155.300
87-27, § 516                  7-7-1987    155.301
87-27, § 517                  7-7-1987    155.302
87-27, § 518                  7-7-1987    155.303
87-27, § 519                  7-7-1987    155.304
87-27, § 520                  7-7-1987    155.304
87-27, § 521                  7-7-1987    155.306
87-27, § 522                  7-7-1987    155.307
87-27, § 530                  7-7-1987    155.320
87-27, § 531                  7-7-1987    155.321
87-27, § 532                  7-7-1987    155.322
87-27, § 533                  7-7-1987    155.323
87-27, § 534                  7-7-1987    155.324
87-27, § 535                  7-7-1987    155.325
87-27, § 536                  7-7-1987    155.326
87-27, § 537                  7-7-1987    155.327
87-27, § 538                  7-7-1987    155.328
87-27, § 539                  7-7-1987    155.329
87-27, § 540                  7-7-1987    155.330
87-27, § 541                  7-7-1987    155.331
87-27, § 542                  7-7-1987    155.332
87-27, § 543                  7-7-1987    155.333
87-27, § 550                  7-7-1987    155.345
87-27, § 551                  7-7-1987    155.346
87-27, § 552                  7-7-1987    155.347
87-27, § 553                  7-7-1987    155.348
87-27, § 554                  7-7-1987    155.349
87-27, § 555                  7-7-1987    155.350
87-27, § 556                  7-7-1987    155.351
87-27, § 557                  7-7-1987    155.352
87-27, § 559                  7-7-1987    155.353
87-27, § 560                  7-7-1987    155.354
87-27, § 561                  7-7-1987    155.355
87-27, § 562                  7-7-1987    155.356
87-27, § 563                  7-7-1987    155.357
87-27, § 564                  7-7-1987    155.358
87-27, § 565                  7-7-1987    155.359
87-27, § 566                  7-7-1987    155.360
87-27, § 567                  7-7-1987    155.361
87-27, § 568                  7-7-1987    155.362
87-27, § 569                  7-7-1987    155.363
87-27, § 570                  7-7-1987    155.364
87-27, § 571                  7-7-1987    155.365
87-27, § 572                  7-7-1987    155.366
87-27, § 573                  7-7-1987    155.367
87-27, § 574                  7-7-1987    155.368
87-27, § 580                  7-7-1987    155.380
87-27, § 581                  7-7-1987    155.381
87-27, § 582                  7-7-1987    155.382
87-27, § 583                  7-7-1987    155.383
87-27, § 584                  7-7-1987    155.384
87-27, § 585                  7-7-1987    155.385
87-27, § 586                  7-7-1987    155.386
87-27, § 587                  7-7-1987    155.386
87-27, § 600                  7-7-1987    155.400
87-27, § 601                  7-7-1987    155.401
87-27, § 602                  7-7-1987    155.402
87-27, § 603                  7-7-1987    155.403
87-27, § 604                  7-7-1987    155.404
87-27, § 605                  7-7-1987    155.405
87-27, § 606                  7-7-1987    155.406
87-27, § 607                  7-7-1987    155.407
87-27, § 609                  7-7-1987    155.408
87-27, § 610                  7-7-1987    155.409
87-27, § 612                  7-7-1987    155.411
87-27, § 613                  7-7-1987    155.412
87-27, § 614                  7-7-1987    155.413
87-27, § 700                  7-7-1987    155.425
87-27, § 701                  7-7-1987    155.426
87-27, § 702                  7-7-1987    155.427
87-27, § 703                  7-7-1987    155.428
87-27, § 704                  7-7-1987    155.429
87-27, § 800                  7-7-1987    155.440
87-27, § 801                  7-7-1987    155.441
87-27, § 802                  7-7-1987    155.999
87-27, § 803                  7-7-1987    155.442
87-27, § 804                  7-7-1987    155.443
87-27, § 805                  7-7-1987    155.444
87-27, § 806                  7-7-1987    155.445
87-27, Exh. A                  7-7-1987    Ch. 155, Apps. A -
                                           I
38-87                          8-18-1987   50.02
43-87                          9-15-1987   51.095 -
                                           51.099
47-87                          10-6-1987   93.02
35-86                          3-1-1988    Title VII, App. C, Sch. II
88-6                           3-1-1988    Title VII, App. C, Sch. I
19-88                          10-18-1988  Title VII, App. C, Sch. I
26-88                          2-7-1989    155.067
89-16                          5-2-1989    51.002
21-89                          7-3-1989    Title VII, App. C, Sch. II
24-89                          9-5-1989    31.20
17-90                          6-19-1990   Title VII, App. C, Sch. II
21-90                          7-3-1990    155.162
4-91                           2-5-1991    Title VII, App. B, Sch. II
17-91                          5-7-1991    Title VII, A-3
20-91                          7-2-1991    Title VII, App. C, Sch. II
25-91                          9-3-1991    50.01,
                                           50.03
36-91                          12-30-1991  112.01
3-94                           4-4-1994    35.021
6-94                           5-16-1994   155.187,
                                           155.200
                                           155.009,
8-95                           4-3-1995    155.015,
                                           155.050 -
                                           155.053
20-95                          8-7-1995    Title VII, App. B, Sch. II
                                           35.035 -
21-95                          8-21-1995   35.046,
                                           35.999
34-95                          10-16-1995  Title VII, A-4
12-96                          3-16-1996   31.01
15-96                          4-15-1996   154.009
                                           153.001 -
                                           153.013,
                                           153.030 -
16-96                          4-15-1996   153.044,
                                           153.065 -
                                           153.072;
                                           Ch. 153, Apps. A -
                                           C
17-96, § 100                  4-15-1996   154.001
17-96, § 100.1                4-15-1996   154.002
17-96, § 100.2                4-15-1996   154.003
17-96, § 100.3                4-15-1996   154.004
17-96, § 100.4                4-15-1996   154.005
17-96, § 100.5                4-15-1996   154.006
17-96, § 100.6                4-15-1996   154.007
17-96, § 100.7                4-15-1996   154.008
17-96, § 200                  4-15-1996   154.020
17-96, § 200.1                4-15-1996   154.021
17-96, § 300                  4-15-1996   154.035
17-96, § 300.1                4-15-1996   154.036
17-96, § 300.2                4-15-1996   154.037
17-96, § 300.3                4-15-1996   154.038
17-96, § 300.4                4-15-1996   154.039
17-96, § 400                  4-15-1996   154.050
17-96, § 400.1                4-15-1996   154.051
17-96, § 400.2                4-15-1996   154.052
17-96, § 400.3                4-15-1996   154.053
17-96, § 500                  4-15-1996   154.065
17-96, § 500.1                4-15-1996   154.066
17-96, § 500.2                4-15-1996   154.067
17-96, § 500.3                4-15-1996   154.068
17-96, § 500.4                4-15-1996   154.069
17-96, § 500.5                4-15-1996   154.999
17-96, § 500.6                4-15-1996   154.070
17-96, § 500.7                4-15-1996   154.071
17-96, § 600                  4-15-1996   154.085
17-96, § 600.1                4-15-1996   154.086
17-96, § 600.2                4-15-1996   154.087
17-96, § 600.3                4-15-1996   154.088
17-96, § 600.4                4-15-1996   154.089
17-96, § 600.5                4-15-1996   154.090
17-96, § 600.6                4-15-1996   154.091
17-96, § 600.7                4-15-1996   154.092
                                           155.009,
                                           155.201,
                                           155.215 -
18-96                          4-15-1996   155.226,
                                           155.350 -
                                           155.352,
                                           155.186,
                                           155.187
24-96                          7-15-1996   34.02
31-96                          8-19-1996   155.162
33-96                          9-3-1996    50.03
5-97                           1-7-1997    35.080 -
                                           35.094
9-97                           2-3-1997    155.240
21-97                          5-19-1997   35.091
23-97                          6-2-1997    51.017
                                           91.01 -
27-97                          7-7-1997    91.04,
                                           91.99
5-98                           2-16-1998   Title VII, App. C, Sch. II
12-98                          5-18-1998   155.275
10-99                          5-3-1999    155.150
12-99                          6-7-1999    Title VII, App. B, Sch. II
                                           155.015,
20-99                          11-1-1999   155.108,
                                           155.136,
                                           155.163
02-00                          1-17-2000   35.001
12-00                          4-17-2000   Title VII, A-6
16-00                          5-15-2000   Title VII, App. C, Sch. II
09-01                          6-4-2001    Title VII, App. C, Sch. I
32-01                          11-19-2001  Title VII, App. C, Sch. II
33-01, Art. 1                  12-3-2001   35.125
33-01, Art. 2                  12-3-2001   35.126
33-01, Art. 3                  12-3-2001   35.127
33-01, Art. 4                  12-3-2001   35.128
33-01, Art. 5                  12-3-2001   35.129
33-01, Art. 6                  12-3-2001   35.130
33-01, Art. 7                  12-3-2001   35.131
33-01, Art. 8                  12-3-2001   35.132
33-01, Art. 9                  12-3-2001   35.134
33-01, §§ 10.01, § 10.02(par- -         35.134
33-01, § 10.02(part)          - -         35.999
33-01, Art. 11                 12-3-2001   35.135
33-01, Art. 12                 12-3-2001   35.136
08-02                          2-18-2002   35.132
10-02                          3-4-2002    31.07
17-02                          6-10-2002   155.217
21-02                          7-15-2002   35.091
27-02                          9-16-2002   35.019
28-02                          9-16-2002   Title VII, A-7
31-02                          10-7-2002   153.004
34-02                          10-7-2002   35.130
04-03                          3-17-2003   35.132
08-03                          4-21-2003   Title VII, App. C, Sch. I
25-03                          9-2-2003    Title VII, App. B, Sch. II
32-03                          10-6-2003   155.217
36-03                          10-6-2003   90.01
09-04                          4-1-2004    31.04
                                           110.01 -
34-04                          5-17-2004   110.12,
                                           110.99
37-04                          6-7-2004    Title XIII, A-4
                                           155.094,
                                           155.125,
43-04                          7-19-2004   155.253,
                                           155.306;
                                           Ch. 155, App. A -
                                           I
43-04                          7-19-2004   155.446
47-04                          8-16-2004   155.266
52-04                          10-18-2004  155.446
56-04                          11-1-2004   155.014
59-04                          11-18-2004  Title VII, App. B, Sch. I
61-04                          12-6-2004   151.01 -
                                           151.12
02-05                          1-17-2005   155.265
09-4                           1-19-2005   155.300
12-05                          4-4-2005    Title VII, A-1
                                           Title VII, A-5;
16-05                          6-20-2005   90.01;
                                           Title XIII, A-1
19-05                          7-5-2005    155.251
                                           155.186,
20-05                          7-5-2005    155.187,
                                           155.201,
                                           155.251
30-05                          8-1-2005    35.018
14-06                          4-3-2006    35.017
23-06                          5-15-2006   155.218
26-06                          7-17-2006   155.446
27-06                          7-17-2006   155.015
28-06                          7-17-2006   155.408
30-06                          8-21-2006   90.02
05-07                          2-5-2007    Title XIII, A-3
09-07                          2-19-2007   90.15
44-07                          12-17-2007  35.132
03-08                          1-7-2008    35.132
07-08                          2-18-2008   91.02
12-08                          3-17-2008   155.067
14-08                          4-21-2008   94.01,
                                           94.02
19-08                          6-23-2008   155.350
29-08                          9-2-2008    35.132
08-34                          10-6-2008   35.003
08-51                          12-29-2008  35.132
09-4                           1-19-2009   155.015
09-05                          1-19-2009   38.01
09-17                          3-16-2009   112.15
                                           35.060 -
09-33                          7-6-2009    35.068,
                                           35.999
09-36                          8-17-2009   34.01
09-43                          10-19-2009  35.132
09-44                          11-2-2009   36.02
                                           111.01 -
                                           111.03,
60-2010                        3-15-2010   111.40 -
                                           111.42,
                                           111.99
                                           111.01 -
                                           111.03,
61-2010                        3-15-2010   111.15 -
                                           111.27,
                                           111.99
10-66                          5-17-2010   35.016
2010-63                        5-17-2010   155.327
                                           92.01 -
2010-71                        6-7-2010    92.06,
                                           92.99
                                           51.001,
2010-84                        8-16-2010   51.030 -
                                           51.043 -
                                           51.066
2010-94                        12-6-2010   35.020
2010-100                       12-29-2010  31.01
                                           152.001 -
                                           152.010,
                                           152.020 -
                                           152.031,
                                           152.045 -
2011-114                       2-15-2011   152.054,
                                           152.065 -
                                           152.070,
                                           152.080,
                                           152.081,
                                           152.999
2011-127                       6-21-2011   Title XIII, A-7
2011-151                       12-6-2011   52.01
2012-13                        4-3-2012    35.137
2012-25                        6-19-2012   Adopting Ordinance
12-37                          9-4-2012    155.308
2013-1                         1-8-2013    Title VII, A-8
14-13                          4-2-2013    Title XIII, A-7
2013-24                        9-3-2013    96.01
2013-47                        12-17-2013  30.03
                                           155.008 ,
                                           155.215 ,
                                           155.216 ,
6-2014                         2-4-2014    155.217 ,
                                           155.223 ,
                                           155.227  -
                                           155.229
27-2014                        9-2-2014    31.05
33-2014                        10-7-2014   30.18
34-2014                        10-7-2014   30.30
35-2014                        10-7-2014   30.22
36-2014                        10-7-2014   34.02
4-2015                         1-20-2015   34.03
9-2015                         3-17-2015   155.106,
                                           155.325
10-2015                        3-17-2015   Title VII, A-9
11-2015                        3-17-2015   31.08
12-2015                        4-21-2015   30.03
20-2015                        7-7-2015    30.03
                                           90.30 -
25-2015                        9-1-2015    90.35,
                                           90.99
28-2015                        9-1-2015    31.01
                                           35.136,
33-2015                        11-3-2015   39.01 -
                                           39.26,
                                           39.99
11-2016                        5-3-2016    154.009
30-2016                        12-6-2016   31.01
15-2017                        2-21-2017   52.01
16-2017                        2-21-2017   153.069
17-2017                        2-21-2017   35.080 -
                                           35.094
18-2017                        2-21-2017   155.309
                                           93.01 -
31-2017                        6-20-2017   93.03,
                                           93.99
                                           35.087 -
32-2017                        6-20-2017   35.089,
                                           52.01
                                           38.010 -
49-2017                        11-21-2017  38.370,
                                           38.510 -
                                           38.870
6-2018                         3-20-2018   39.27
                                           155.097,
12-2018                        4-17-2018   155.099,
                                           155.386
28-2018                        9-4-2018    155.370
                                           38.010 -
42-2018                        10-16-2018  38.380,
                                           38.510 -
                                           38.880
43-2018                        10-16-2018  93.10
44-2018                        10-16-2018  92.17
45-2018                        11-6-2018   Title VII, App. C, Sched. III
46-2018                        11-6-2018   Title VII, App. C, Sched. V
47-2018                        11-6-2018   90.51,
                                           90.52
1-2019                         1-8-2019    94.10
11-2019                        5-7-2019    154.009
15-2019                        7-2-2019    154.069
21-2019                        9-3-2019    155.305
11-2020                        3-3-2020    38.092
21-2020                        6-2-2020    95.02,
                                           95.99
12-2021                        4-6-2021    38.320
13-2021                        4-6-2021    38.090
16-2021                        5-4-2021    Title VII, A-10
18-2021                        5-18-2021   35.024
26-2021                        7-20-2021   155.375
36-2021                        10-19-2021  31.01
37-2021                        10-19-2021  38.300
39-2021                        10-19-2021  31.08
40-2021                        11-2-2021   155.375
                                          
 
