BLUFFTON, OHIO
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2022 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance No. 09-21, passed 10-25-2021
State legislation current through December 31, 2021
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 06-2020
   AN ORDINANCE TO ACCEPT A CODIFIED VERSION OF THE BLUFFTON, OHIO CODE OF
ORDINANCES PROVIDED BY AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION, AND TO REPEAL ALL
OTHER ORDINANCES INCONSISTENT THEREWITH AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the collection of ordinances from the Village of Bluffton, Ohio dates
back into the 1800's, with laws that are no longer relevant, and;
WHEREAS, Village Council believes the codification, or organization, and
updating of these ordinances will provide current, enforceable laws, that are
accessible to both government and citizens, and;
WHEREAS, the adoption of the codified version of the Bluffton, Ohio, Code of
Ordinances provided by American Legal Publishing is necessary along with
repealing all other ordinances inconsistent therewith.
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
Village and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety,
and general welfare of the Village that this ordinance take effect at an early
date.
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE VILLAGE OF BLUFFTON, OHIO:
SECTION 1: That Village Council adopts the codified version of the Bluffton,
Ohio, Code of Ordinances provided by American Legal Publishing Company with
current versions to be maintained by the Village Administrator and Fiscal
Officer.
SECTION 2: That it is found and determined that all formal actions of this
Council concerning and relating to the adoption of this Ordinance were adopted
in an open meeting of this Council and that all deliberations of this Council
and any of its committees that resulted in such formal actions were in meetings
open to the public, in compliance with all legal requirements including Section
121.22 of the Ohio Revised Code.
   Passed and adopted this 26th day of May, 2020 by the governing board of the
Village of Bluffton, Ohio by the following vote (2/3 required):
Yes:__________      No:___________   Abstain:___________
Attest:
__________________________________      __________________________________
Fiscal Officer                        Mayor
Approved as to Form:
__________________________________
Village Solicitor
2020 S-1
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.05   Construction of section references
   
10.06   Conflicting provisions
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Ordinances repealed
   
10.11   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.12   Ordinances saved
   
10.13   Application to future ordinances
   
10.14   Interpretation
   
10.15   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.16   Statutory references
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Determination of legislative intent
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the Village of
Bluffton, as revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into
component codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated
as the “Village of Bluffton Code of Ordinances”, for which designation “code of
ordinances”, “codified ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Title, chapter
and section headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the
code.
(R.C. § 1.01)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01”. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AND/OR. The word “and” may be read as “or”, and the word “or” may be read as
“and”, if the sense requires it.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   CERTIFIED MAIL. Includes registered mail.
   CHILD. Includes child by adoption.
   COUNCIL. The Village Council of the Village of Bluffton.
   COUNTY. Allen and Hancock Counties.
   FIRE CHIEF. Shall include the Chief of the Fire Department.
   IMPRISONED. Shall have the same meaning as in R.C. § 1.05.
   INTERNET. The international computer network of both federal and non-federal
interoperable packet switched data networks, including the graphical subnetwork
known as the World Wide Web.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of incorporeal nature.
   LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY. The Village Council of the Village of Bluffton.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MUNICIPALITY, VILLAGE or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. When used in this code,
shall denote the Village of Bluffton, irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   O.A.C. Refers to the Ohio Administrative Code.
   OATH. Includes affirmation.
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner or
tenant in common of the whole or part of that property.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership and association.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real property.
   PLAN OF SEWERAGE, SYSTEM OF SEWERAGE, SEWER and SEWERS. Includes sewers,
sewage disposal works and treatment plants, and sewage pumping stations,
together with facilities and appurtenances necessary and proper therefor.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county, state
or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   R.C. Refers to the Ohio Revised Code.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Ohio.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the municipality.
   SWEAR. Includes affirm.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITING. Includes printing.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. The terms include any representation of words,
letters, symbols or figures; this provision does not affect any law relating to
signatures.
   YEAR. Twelve consecutive months.
(R.C. §§ 1.02, 1.05, 1.44, 1.59, 701.01)
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Common and technical usage. Words and phrases shall be read in context
and construed according to the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and
phrases that have acquired a technical or particular meaning, whether by
legislative definition or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
(R.C. § 1.42)
   (B)   Singular and plural; gender; tenses. As used in this code, unless the
context otherwise requires:
      (1)   The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the
singular;
      (2)   Words of one gender include the other genders; and
      (3)   Words in the present tense include the future tense.
(R.C. § 1.43)
   (C)   Calendar; computation of time.
      (1)   The time within which an act is required by law to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day; except that when
the last day falls on Sunday or a legal holiday, then the act may be done on
the next succeeding day that is not a Sunday or a legal holiday.
      (2)   When a public office, in which an act required by law is to be
performed, is closed to the public for the entire day that constitutes the last
day for doing the act or before its usual closing time on that day, the act may
be performed on the next succeeding day that is not a Sunday or a legal
holiday.
      (3)   As used in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) of this section, LEGAL
HOLIDAY means the following days:
         (a)   The first day of January, known as New Year’s Day;
         (b)   The third Monday in January, known as Martin Luther King, Jr.
Day;
         (c)   The third Monday in February, known as Washington-Lincoln Day;
         (d)   The day designated in the “Act of June 28, 1968”, 82 Stat. 250,
5 U.S.C. § 6103, as amended, for the commemoration of Memorial Day;
         (e)   The nineteenth day of June, known as Juneteenth day;
         (f)   The fourth day of July, known as Independence Day;
         (g)   The first Monday in September, known as Labor Day;
         (h)   The second Monday in October, known as Columbus Day;
         (i)   The eleventh day of November, known as Veteran’s Day;
         (j)   The fourth Thursday in November, known as Thanksgiving Day;
         (k)   The twenty-fifth day of December, known as Christmas Day; and
         (l)   Any day appointed and recommended by the Governor of this state
or the President of the United States as a holiday.
      (4)   If any day designated in this section as a legal holiday falls on a
Sunday, the next succeeding day is a legal holiday.
(R.C. § 1.14)
      (5)   When an act is to take effect or become operative from and after a
day named, no part of that day shall be included. If priority of legal rights
depends upon the order of events on the same day, the priority shall be
determined by the times in the day at which they respectively occurred.
(R.C. § 1.15)
      (6)   If a number of months is to be computed by counting the months from
a particular day, the period ends on the same numerical day in the concluding
month as the day of the month from which the computation is begun, unless there
are not that many days in the concluding month, in which case the period ends
on the last day of that month.
(R.C. § 1.45)
      (7)   In all cases where the law shall require any act to be done in a
reasonable time or reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR NOTICE
shall mean such time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the
duty or compliance with the notice.
   (D)   Numbers. If there is a conflict between figures and words in
expressing a number, the words govern.
(R.C. § 1.46)
   (E)   Authority. When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as
well be done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be
construed to include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (F)   Joint authority. All words purporting to give joint authority to three
or more municipal officers or other persons shall be construed as giving that
authority to a majority of the officers or other persons, unless it shall be
otherwise expressly declared in the law giving the authority, or it is
inconsistent with state law or municipal charter provisions.
   (G)   Exceptions. The rules of construction shall not apply to any law which
contains any express provision excluding the construction, or when the subject
matter or context of the law is repugnant thereto.
§ 10.04 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing statute does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
(R.C. § 1.57)
   (B)   The re-enactment, amendment or repeal of an ordinance does not, except
as provided in division (C) below:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment; and the
investigation, proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture or punishment for any offense is reduced by
a re-enactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
(R.C. § 1.58)
   (D)   An ordinance which is re-enacted or amended is intended to be a
continuation of the prior ordinance and not a new enactment, so far as it is
the same as the prior ordinance.
(R.C. § 1.54)
§ 10.05 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, or of divisions or subdivisions of a
section, the reference shall be construed to mean a violation of any provision
of the section, sections, divisions or subdivisions included in the reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
(R.C. § 1.23)
   (C)   A reference to any portion of a provision of this code applies to all
re-enactments or amendments thereof.
(R.C. § 1.55)
   (D)   If a section refers to a series of numbers or letters, the first and
the last numbers or letters are included.
(R.C. § 1.56)
   (E)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter has been
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.06 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   If a general provision conflicts with a special or local provision,
they shall be construed, if possible, so that effect is given to both. If the
conflict between the provisions is irreconcilable, the special or local
provision prevails as an exception to the general provision, unless the general
provision is the later adoption and the manifest intent is that the general
provision prevail.
(R.C. § 1.51)
   (B)   (1)   If ordinances enacted at different meetings of the legislative
authority are irreconcilable, the ordinance latest in date of enactment
prevails.
      (2)   If amendments to the same ordinance are enacted at different
meetings of the legislative authority, one amendment without reference to
another, the amendments are to be harmonized, if possible, so that effect may
be given to each. If the amendments are substantively irreconcilable, the
latest in date of enactment prevails. The fact that a later amendment restates
language deleted by an earlier amendment, or fails to include language inserted
by an earlier amendment, does not of itself make the amendments irreconcilable.
Amendments are irreconcilable only when changes made by each cannot reasonably
be put into simultaneous operation.
(R.C. § 1.52)
   (C)   In the event of a conflict between any of the provisions of this code,
or between any of the provisions of this code and any standard code adopted by
the municipality pursuant to R.C. § 731.231, the provision that establishes the
higher or stricter standard shall control.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of this code or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions or applications of the section or related sections which can
be given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end
the provisions are severable.
(R.C. § 1.50)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the municipality exercising the powers, duties
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any words necessary to express the intention of the
provisions affected, the use of words to which no meaning can be attached, or
the use of a word when another word was clearly intended to express the
intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and the words supplied, omitted or
substituted shall conform with the manifest intention, and the provision shall
have the same effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as
originally published. No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question
exists regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   With the exception of any ordinances specifically saved by the municipality,
this code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
and all ordinances specifically saved by the municipality shall remain in full
force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
legislative body, or a certain municipal officer or employee, to make
additional ordinances or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the
intention of the ordinance, all ordinances and regulations of a similar nature
serving the purpose, effected prior to the codification and not inconsistent
thereto, shall remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.13 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.14 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.15 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to the adoption of this code may be numbered in
accordance with the numbering system of this code and need not be inserted in
this code, but shall be treated as if printed for inclusion herein.
   (B)   The following language may be used by the municipality to amend, add
or repeal a chapter, section, or division:
      (1)   To amend a section: “Section                 of the Bluffton Code
of Ordinances is amended to read as follows: ....”;
      (2)   To add a section: “Section                 of the Bluffton Code of
Ordinances, which is to be added to and amends the Bluffton Code of Ordinances,
reads as follows: ....”; and
      (3)   To repeal a section: “Section                 of the Bluffton Code
of Ordinances, which reads as follows, is repealed: ....”
§ 10.16 STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, located in parentheses
immediately following a division or section of this code, this indicates that
the text of the division or section is substantially equivalent to the
statutory provision.
  Example: (R.C. § 4511.02)
   (B)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following
the text of a section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information.
  Example:
   § 30.08 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   Unless otherwise exempted by state law, all public records shall be promptly
prepared and made available for inspection to any person.
   Statutory reference:
Public records, see R.C. § 149.43
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.18 DETERMINATION OF LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   (A)   In enacting an ordinance, it is presumed that:
      (1)   Compliance with the constitutions of the state and of the United
States is intended;
      (2)   The entire ordinance is intended to be effective;
      (3)   A just and reasonable result is intended; and
      (4)   A result feasible of execution is intended.
(R.C. § 1.47)
   (B)   An ordinance is presumed to be prospective in its operation unless
expressly made retrospective.
(R.C. § 1.48)
   (C)   If an ordinance is ambiguous, the court, in determining the intention
of the Village Council, may consider among other matters:
      (1)   The object sought to be attained;
      (2)   The circumstances under which the ordinance was enacted;
      (3)   The legislative history;
      (4)   The common law or former legislative provisions, including laws
upon the same or similar subjects;
      (5)   The consequences of a particular construction; and
      (6)   The administrative construction of the ordinance.
(R.C. § 1.49)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever, in this municipal code or in any ordinance of the
municipality, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an
offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever the doing of any act is required or the
failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is
otherwise provided, whoever violates any such provision shall be punished by a
fine not exceeding $500, a term of imprisonment not exceeding six months, or
both. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which
a violation continues or occurs.
   (B)   The failure of any officer or employee of the municipality to perform
any official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or
employee to the penalty imposed for a violation unless a penalty is
specifically provided for the failure.
Cross-reference:
   Misdemeanor classifications, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Ordinance violations and penalties, see R.C. § 715.67
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   VILLAGE COUNCIL
      
32.   VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   VILLAGE OFFICIALS
      
34.   PERSONNEL POLICY
      
35.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
36.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
37.   TAXATION AND FINANCE
      
38.   VILLAGE POLICIES
      
39.   FEE SCHEDULE
      
40.   EXHIBITS
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Council meetings
   
30.02   Pay frequency
   
30.03   Authorization for administrative foreclosure proceedings
§ 30.01 COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   The regular meetings of the Council of the village shall be held on the
third floor of the town hall on the days assigned by Council at the first
meeting of each calendar year and shall, at all times, be open to the public.
(Ord. 1-72, passed - -)
§ 30.02 PAY FREQUENCY.
   Mayor and Council members, Fire Department and EMS Department members and
Cemetery Sexton will be paid on a monthly basis to ensure reporting compliance
with OPERS.
(Ord. 29-13, passed 12-23-2013)
§ 30.03 AUTHORIZATION FOR ADMINISTRATIVE FORECLOSURE PROCEEDINGS.
   The village is hereby authorized to initiate foreclosure of tax delinquent
abandoned vacant lands through the Allen County Board of Revision pursuant to
R.C. §§ 323.65 through 323.79 for redevelopment purposes and to enter into
contracts for the sale of the vacant abandoned lands with adjoining owners or
others for the purpose of assisting in the acquisition and transfer of said
property to productive use.
(Ord. 14-11, passed - -2011)
CHAPTER 31: VILLAGE COUNCIL
Section
   
31.01   Council rules
§ 31.01 COUNCIL RULES.
   (A)   Rule 1 - legislative authority.
      (1)   The legislative power of the village shall be vested in, and
exercised by, the Village Council, composed of six members, who shall be
elected by the electors of the village at large, for terms of four years.
(R.C. § 731.09)
      (2)   The powers of the Village Council shall be legislative only, it
shall perform no administrative or operational duties, and it shall neither
appoint nor confirm any officer or employee in the village government except
those of its own body, except those specifically provided for by law in R.C.
Title VII. All contracts requiring the authority of the legislative authority
for their execution shall be entered into and conducted to performance by the
board or officers having charge of the matters to which they relate. After the
authority to make such contracts has been given and the necessary appropriation
made, the legislative authority shall take no further action thereon.
      (3)   Each member of the Village Council shall have resided in the
village one year immediately preceding the member’s election, and shall be an
elector of the village. No member of the Village Council shall hold any other
public office, be interested in any contract with the village, or hold
employment with the village, except that such member may be a notary public, a
member of the state militia or a volunteer firefighter or volunteer EMS of the
village, provided that such member shall not receive any compensation for his
or her services as a volunteer firefighter of the village. Any member who
ceases to possess any of such qualifications or who removes from the village
shall forfeit the member’s office.
(R.C. § 731.12)
      (4)   Members of the Village Council shall not receive any compensation
beyond their regular Council payment. A member of the Village Council who is a
volunteer firefighter or volunteer EMS is prohibited from participating in the
following areas: matters that have a definite and direct impact upon the
individual officials and employees of the Fire Department; voting, discussing,
deliberating or taking any other action on matters that affect the individual
interests of any member of the Village Fire Department personnel (i.e., the
Council member would be prohibited from discussing, deliberating about or
otherwise participating in decisions before Council affecting the employment,
compensation or benefits for the Fire Chief or other fire personnel); matters
such as changes in compensation or benefits determined by individual working
conditions, the assignment of duties, evaluations and actions involving
promotions, discipline, lay-offs, termination, the signing of warrants and
checks, that directly involve the individual interests of any official or
employee of the Fire Department.
      (5)   A member of the Village Council who is a volunteer firefighter may
participate in matters that affect all Fire Department personnel, uniformly and
without unique or special benefit to any particular fire official or employee.
The Council member may participate in the following matters: general budgetary
matters and appropriations of funds to the Fire Department; and the purchase of
equipment so long as there is no definite and direct unique or particular
benefit, for the individual members of the Fire Department.
   (B)   Rule 2 - President Pro Tempore or Council President.
      (1)   At the first regular meeting in January of each year, the Council
shall immediately proceed to elect a President Pro Tempore, who shall be titled
Council President, from its own number, who shall serve until the first meeting
in January next after his or her election. When the Mayor is absent from the
village or is unable, for any cause, to perform his or her duties, the
President Pro Tempore shall be the Acting Mayor, and shall have the same powers
and perform the same duties as the Mayor.
(R.C. § 731.10)
      (2)   When the President Pro Tempore becomes the Mayor, the Council shall
elect another President Pro Tempore from its own number, who shall serve until
the first meeting in January next after their election and have the same
rights, powers and duties as his or her predecessor.
(R.C. § 731.11)
      (3)   R.C. § 731.43(A)(1) provides that under this circumstance, “the
successor shall hold office only for the period the President Pro Tempore of
Bluffton Village Council holds the office of Mayor.” Therefore, if the
President Pro Tempore is not elected Mayor, that individual would return to his
or her former Council seat and the person appointed to fill the position when
the President Pro Tempore became Mayor would no longer be a Council member.
   (C)   Rule 3 - presiding officer.
      (1)   The Mayor shall be the presiding officer of the Village Council and
shall preside at all regular and special meetings thereof, but shall have no
vote except in case of a tie.
(R.C. § 733.24)
      (2)   When the Mayor is absent from the village or is unable, for any
cause, to perform his or her duties, the President Pro Tempore shall be the
presiding officer.
(R.C. § 733.25)
      (3)   The Mayor or presiding officer may, during the Council meeting,
call any member of the Council to the Chair to serve as presiding officer, but
this substitution shall not continue beyond adjournment.
      (4)   In the absence of both the Mayor and President Pro Tempore, the
Council shall appoint a temporary presiding officer by a majority of the
members present not to continue beyond adjournment.
      (5)   The Mayor or presiding officer shall take the chair at the hour
appointed for the Council meeting to start, and shall immediately call the
Council members to order. The presiding officer shall then determine if a
quorum is present and the Village Fiscal Officer shall enter on the minutes the
names of the members present.
   (D)   Rule 4 - Mayor.
      (1)   The Mayor of the village shall be elected for a term of four years,
commencing on January 1 next after his or her election. The Mayor shall be an
elector of the village and shall have resided in the village for at least one
year immediately preceding his or her election. The Mayor shall be the chief
conservator of the peace therein and shall have the powers and duties provided
by laws. The Mayor shall be the presiding officer of Village Council. The Mayor
shall preside at all regular and special Council meetings thereof, but shall
have no vote except in cases of a tie vote.
(R.C. § 733.24)
      (2)   The Mayor shall be sworn into office on or prior to the beginning
of his or her term. When the Mayor is absent from the village, or is unable for
any cause to perform his or her duties, the President Pro Tempore of the
Village Council shall be acting Mayor. In the case of the death, resignation or
removal of the Mayor, the President Pro Tempore shall become the Mayor and
shall hold the office until his or her successor is elected and qualified. Such
successor shall be elected to the office for the unexpired term, at the first
regular municipal election that occurs more than 40 days after the vacancy has
occurred; except that when the unexpired term ends within one year immediately
following the date of such election, an election to fill such unexpired term
shall not be held and the President Pro Tempore of the Council shall hold the
office for such unexpired term.
(R.C. § 733.25)
      (3)   When the President Pro Tempore becomes the Mayor, a successor shall
be appointed to Council to hold office only for the period the President Pro
Tempore of the Village Council holds the office of Mayor.
(R.C. § 731.43)
   (E)   Rule 5 - Village Fiscal Officer.
      (1)   The Village Fiscal Officer shall be appointed under this section
and shall perform the duties provided by law for the Village Clerk and
Treasurer and any other duties consistent with the nature of the office that
are provided for by village ordinance.
      (2)   The Village Fiscal Officer shall be appointed by the Mayor of the
village, but that appointment does not become effective until it is approved by
a majority vote of the Village Council. The Village Fiscal Officer need not be
an elector of the village or reside in the village at the time of appointment;
however, the Village Fiscal Officer shall become a resident of the village
within six months after the appointment takes effect, unless an ordinance is
passed approving the Village Fiscal Officer’s residence outside of the village.
      (3)   The Village Fiscal Officer may be removed without cause either by
the Mayor with the consent of a majority of the members of the Village Council
or by a three-fourths vote of Bluffton Village Council with or without the
consent of the Mayor.
(R.C. § 733.262)
   (F)   Rule 6 - Council vacancies.
      (1)   When the office of a member of Council becomes vacant, the vacancy
shall be filled by election by Council for the unexpired term. If Council fails
to act within 30 days to fill such vacancy, the Mayor shall fill the vacancy by
appointment.
(R.C. § 731.43)
      (2)   The 30-day period commences either on the effective date of the
member’s resignation, the date of the member’s expulsion or the member’s date
of death.
      (3)   Whenever a vacancy exists in the membership of Council, the Village
Fiscal Officer shall notify the local newspaper within five days that such
vacancy exists and that the Mayor and Council will accept applications from
qualified citizens who desire to fill the vacancy. Such notification shall also
be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the village.
Individual interviews for the position shall be conducted at a special meeting
in executive session with candidates called by the Council as a Committee of
the Whole prior to the 30-day deadline.
      (4)   Provided, however, that a majority of the remaining members of the
Village Council may suspend this part of the rule by vote taken at a regular
meeting.
   (G)   Rule 7 - Council resignation. Any member of Council who desires to
resign his or her term of office shall submit his or her resignation in writing
to the Mayor and Council and such resignation shall take effect when the same
has been accepted by a vote of the majority of the members present, exclusive
of the person tendering his or her resignation. The effective date of the
resignation is either the date the resignation is accepted by the Council or
the date the member indicates in writing that his or her resignation is
effective, whichever is later.
   (H)   Rule 8 - standing and special committees.
      (1)   There shall be eight standing committees appointed of one or two
members each. All standing and special committee chairperson and members shall
be appointed by the Mayor. Whenever possible the Mayor shall ensure that the
previous committee chairperson remains on the committee for at least one year
after being replaced as chairperson.
      (2)   The standing committees are as follows:
         (a)   Finance Committee;
         (b)   Safety Services;
         (c)   Utilities;
         (d)   Recreation;
         (e)   Streets, Alleys, Lights and Sidewalks;
         (f)   Personnel;
         (g)   Insurance; and
         (h)   Ordinance.
      (3)   The following are commissions and boards established by Council
that have independent standing and jurisdiction over specific subject matters:
         (a)   Tree Commission;
         (b)   Cultural Affairs;
         (c)   Planning Commission;
         (d)   Allen County Health Board;
         (e)   Regional Planning;
         (f)   Airport Commission;
         (g)   Joint Water Advisory Board;
         (h)   Board of Zoning and Building Appeals;
         (i)   Cemetery Board;
         (j)   Bluffton in Bloom Committee; and
         (k)   Pathway Board.
      (4)   Special and ad hoc committees shall be formed whenever deemed
appropriate by the Mayor.
The Mayor may appoint any elector to serve as a non-voting auxiliary member of
any standing, special or ad hoc committee when, in the Mayor’s discretion, that
appointment would aid the committee with special knowledge, skill or experience
and would be in the best interests of the village. Such auxiliary members shall
participate fully in the work of the committee but cannot vote on any proposal
before the committee unless authorized by law or ordinance.
      (5)   The Mayor, by virtue of his or her office, shall be an ex officio
member of all standing, special and ad hoc committees.
   (I)   Rule 9 - committee responsibilities. A committee shall:
      (1)   Follow Council direction in matters referred to it;
      (2)   Normally be expected to investigate or study a given problem or
need, taking no decisive action itself but to submit a report and
recommendations to Council;
      (3)   Within its area of responsibility assume both short and long range
study plans and needs, work to establish desirable economic, budgetary and work
standards;
      (4)   Act in an advisory capacity, reporting to Council for action. The
committee shall assume no direction nor issue any orders in conflict with the
executive officers of the village, or the law;
      (5)   The members of a committee shall meet on the call of the
chairperson, who shall be the first named person on the committee assignment
listing appointed by the mayor. In the case of the absence of the chairperson,
the person named second on the committee listing shall be recognized as
chairperson;
      (6)   The chair of the committee shall designate a committee member or
village employee to keep a record of the proceedings, and of all motions and
other matters passed or adopted, including committee members and staff present;
      (7)   Absent extenuating circumstances, a draft of such record, also
referred to as the minutes, shall be sent to the Village Fiscal Officer within
five calendar days of the meeting but no later than the deadline for inclusion
with the Council packet for the next regular meeting of Village Council and
shall indicate the preparer of such draft minutes. Upon receipt of the draft
minutes, the Village Fiscal Officer shall promptly arrange for them to be made
available for public inspection; and
      (8)   The reports of all committees shall be in writing, shall be agreed
to in committee assembled, and shall not be presented unless approved by a
majority of the committee, and the papers referred shall be returned with the
report. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the introduction
of minority reports. Any minutes submitted herein shall be placed in the
official proceedings of the village and are public record for all purposes.
   (J)   Rule 10 - Council meetings.
      (1)   Council meetings shall be held on the third floor of the town hall
on the days assigned by Council at the first meeting of each calendar year and
shall, at all times, be open to the public.
(R.C. § 731.46)
      (2)   Regular meetings of the Council shall be held in the Council
Chambers of the Village Hall at 7:00 p.m. official time, on the second and
fourth Monday of each month. When any regular meeting of the Council falls on a
legal holiday, or on an election day, the Council shall meet in regular session
on a pre-determined date, place and time. The Mayor shall provide a schedule of
regular meetings for the year at the first Council meeting of each year.
Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or any three members of Council
providing at least 12 hours’ notice is given to each member, served personally,
made by one of e-mail or text message to the member’s address or phone number
or left at his or her usual place of residence. Members shall be advised when
any special meeting is cancelled promptly.
(R.C. § 731.46)
      (3)   At the first regular Council meeting in January of each year, and
at such other times as the Mayor deems expedient, the Mayor shall report to
Council concerning the affairs of the village and recommend such measures as
seem proper to the Mayor.
(R.C. § 733.41)
      (4)   Council shall adjourn its meetings no later than 11:00 p.m.
official time, and in the event that business has not been completed, Council
shall adjourn on a day to day basis until the same is completed.
      (5)   Any member of the public desiring to be heard before Council or to
introduce any business before Council, must notify the Village Fiscal Officer
in writing by the Friday or the last business day of the week prior to the
regular or special Council meeting in order to be placed on the agenda for the
meeting setting forth their name and general topic to be addressed. Each person
shall be granted five minutes to address the Council.
      (6)   The Mayor or presiding officer may at his or her discretion
recognize members of the public without prior notification. Discussion by any
individual shall be limited to five minutes, or longer at the discretion of the
Mayor or presiding officer or Council by vote of a majority of those present.
      (7)   The Village Fiscal Officer shall keep a record of the proceedings,
and of all motions, rules, bylaws, ordinances and resolutions passed or
adopted. Absent extenuating circumstances, a draft of such record, also
referred to as the minutes, shall be sent to the Village Council members,
Mayor, department heads and made available for public inspection on the Friday
or the last business day of the week prior to each regular Council meeting
absent extenuating circumstances. The minutes of a meeting shall be reviewed,
amended and approved at the next regular Council meeting.
      (8)   The Village Fiscal Officer shall provide public documents for
inspection by interested members of the public. In the case of the absence of
the Village Fiscal Officer during a Council meeting, such legislative authority
may appoint an alternate person to record minutes of the meeting.
      (9)   The Village Administrator shall be notified by the Mayor, committee
chairpersons, department heads or the Village Solicitor of matters to be
presented, including ordinances and resolutions, in order that they may be
listed on the meeting agendas, and placed in Council packets prior to the
Council meeting. It is the intent of Council that it will consider only those
items included in the agenda on the Friday or last business day of the week
prior to the regular Council meetings.
      (10)   Items received later than the Friday or last business day of the
week prior to the regular Council meetings, with the exception of bills to be
paid, may be added to the agenda by motion passed by a majority of Council.
      (11)   The Village Administrator shall prepare an agenda for every
meeting, include any proposed legislation, written committee reports, written
reports of any official, and other information deemed necessary for the conduct
of business of the Council and such other matters as requested by Council.
   (K)   Rule 11 - attendance at Council meetings. In addition to Council
members and the Mayor, attendance at regular Council meetings shall ordinarily
include the Village Fiscal Officer, Village Administrator, Assistant
Administrator, Solicitor, Police Chief, Fire Chief and EMS Chief. It is
encouraged that any listed person not able to attend a Council meeting notify
the Mayor and Village Administrator at as soon as possible prior to the
meeting.
   (L)   Rule 12 - order of business.
      (1)   The business of regular Council meetings shall be transacted by an
agenda approved by a consensus of Council and may include the following items:
         (a)   Call to order by gavel or bell;
         (b)   Stand for Pledge of Allegiance;
         (c)   Establishment that a quorum is present;
         (d)   Presentation of preliminary agenda and approval of any changes;
         (e)   Public hearings as required at pre-announced times;
         (f)   Approval of the minutes of prior meetings of the Council;
         (g)   Approval of bills;
         (h)   Old business - legislative items carried over from the prior
meeting (readings, tabled items, second or third read of ordinances and the
like);
         (i)   New business - new ordinances and resolutions;
         (j)   Reports:
            1.   Administrator;
            2.   Chiefs - Police, Fire and EMS;
            3.   Standing committees;
            4.   Special committees; and
            5.   Mayor.
         (k)   Miscellaneous business - discussion of matters of general
interest;
         (l)   Public presentations (The presiding officer may allow a member
of the public to speak regarding specific matters out of order at his or her
discretion.);
         (m)   Meeting announcement by the Village Fiscal Officer;
         (n)   Set up future committee meetings; and
         (o)   Adjournment.
      (2)   The presiding officer may at any time permit a member to introduce
an ordinance, motion or resolution out of the regular order for the same unless
it is objected to by a majority of the Council members present. At the start of
each meeting, the Village Fiscal Officer will provide a register sheet to be
signed at the door to show the name and address of persons attending the
meeting, and give the sheet to the presiding officer during the meeting, and
then given, for deposit, to the Fiscal Officer for preservation with the
records of the village. The business of all meetings will commence at the point
where the order of business at the preceding meeting was interrupted by its
prior adjournment. This section does not apply to meetings called for purposes
specially named. At those meetings, no other business except that specifically
named in the call will be in order. All questions are to be stated and put by
the Chair, who shall decide all votes. In doubtful cases, he or she may direct,
or any member may call for, a division, which shall be taken by a rising vote.
   (M)   Rule 13 - Council quorum. A majority of all the members elected shall
be a quorum, but a less number may adjourn from day to day and compel
attendance of absent members in such manner and under such penalties as are
prescribed by ordinance.
(R.C. § 731.44)
   (N)   Rule 14 - order and decorum at Council meetings - regular order.
      (1)   Regular order shall be at the discretion of the presiding officer.
      (2)   The presiding officer shall preserve order and decorum and confine
members in debate to the question, subject to an appeal to the Council. Only
those members who are recognized by the presiding officer may speak at any one
time. Only members of Council and the presiding officer may speak on public
business before Council unless permitted by the presiding officer.
      (3)   The Village Solicitor shall not participate in debates, however,
with the permission of the presiding officer, the Village Solicitor may orally
provide an opinion or comment upon a matter before Council. From time to time,
the presiding officer may call upon the Village Solicitor for advice and
counsel on procedure or other questions of law.
      (4)   All remarks shall be directed to the presiding officer alone.
Members shall not engage in cross debate, one with the other, or with other
officials or persons in attendance at meetings. Any member may ask the
presiding officer to address a question directly to another member or official
of the village but must receive approval before such question may be posed
during a meeting.
      (5)   In case of an appeal being taken, the question is: “Shall the
decision of the Chair stand as the decision of the Council?” If any member
transgresses the Council rules, the Council, the Mayor shall, or any Council
member may, call him or her to order, in which case the member called to order
shall cease any further debate and await the permission of the presiding
officer before speaking again. In the case of an appeal, the member called to
order and the presiding officer shall have the same right to make a statement.
A majority vote of Council members present shall decide the appeal.
      (6)   The presiding officer shall have the right to suspend these rules
at his or her discretion, however, upon the presiding officer calling for
regular order, all members shall suspend debate and discussion and follow the
procedure set forth in this rule.
      (7)   At any committee meeting or board meeting, the presiding officer of
that meeting may also call for regular order and the forgoing rules shall be in
effect for that meeting.
   (O)   Rule 15 - discipline of Council members.
      (1)   The Council may punish or expel any member for disorderly conduct
or violation of its rules, and declare his or her seat vacant for absence
without valid excuse, where such absence has continued for two months. No
expulsion shall take place without the concurrence of two thirds of the members
elected and until the delinquent member has been notified of the charge against
him or her and has had an opportunity to be heard.
(R.C. § 731.45)
      (2)   The presiding officer shall warn any member of his or her violation
and take corrective action as deemed appropriate. Should the conduct or
violation continue, the presiding officer may suspend debate and the question
to expel a member from the meeting shall be immediately in order without a
second. Thereupon, the question of expulsion shall be up for debate with each
member, including the offending member, being given two minutes to address the
question. Thereafter, there shall be a roll call and expulsion shall only take
place with the concurrence of two-thirds of the members elected to Council.
   (P)   Rule 16 - Council rules.
      (1)   The Village Council shall determine its own rules and keep a
journal of its proceedings.
(R.C. § 731.45)
      (2)   At the January organizational meeting of Council each year, it
shall be in order to make any amendments to the Council rules. Should such
amendments be approved by a majority of the Council, these rules shall be
amended and such amendment shall be in full force and effect upon passage. The
Council rules must be in compliance with applicable Ohio Revised Code and Ohio
Attorney General Opinions.
      (3)   The Village Solicitor, or in his or her absence the Village Fiscal
Officer, shall serve as parliamentarian during Council meetings; however, the
presiding officer’s decision controls.
   (Q)   Rule 17 - precedence. The order of precedence governing the conducting
of business by the Village Council is as follows: Ohio Revised Code; Council
rules; and Robert’s Rules of Order.
   (R)   Rule 18 - Robert’s Rules of Order. When Robert’s Rules of Order are
mentioned in this document they refer to Robert’s Rules of Order, Newly Revised
(the latest edition available). The Village Council may suspend Robert’s Rules
of Order by a two-thirds vote of the members present.
   (S)   Rule 19 - Suspension of Council rules. Council shall have the
authority to suspend Council rules at any time it feels it is necessary by a
vote of three-fourths of the members present which shall be considered without
debate. Provided, however, that Council cannot suspend any rule that
incorporates the authority of the Ohio Revised Code unless the Ohio Revised
Code provided that such rule may be suspended.
   (T)   Rule 20 - hearings before Council. When the Council is about to decide
on an important issue, it may invite the public to appear and offer their views
on the subject being discussed. It can also invite nonresidents who have
expertise in the subject. This is usually referred to as a hearing or village
meeting. While under the main obligation of conducting its scheduled business
within normal time limits, Council customarily accommodates visitors by
providing a time of five minutes to each individual to hear their concerns or
requests. When electors or any other persons desire to address Council and the
time required may exceed the time usually available, Council may schedule a
public hearing for such by arranging for a special time and place therefor. No
person may speak until recognized by the presiding officer.
   (U)   Rule 21 - referral to committee. Any new business brought before
Council shall be referred to the proper committee, if such referral is deemed
necessary or proper. If such referral is not needed, and the matter can be
disposed of quickly, then such action should be taken at once. When
communications are read, they may referred to committee immediately after being
read by the Village Fiscal Officer. Prolonged argument, discussion and debate
shall be avoided in the Council meeting. If the matter under consideration
requires investigation and study or is of such a nature that long discussion
may be required, it shall be referred to committee promptly by the presiding
officer. If any matters referred by the Council to any committee or officer are
to be reported upon at the next regularly scheduled meeting as old business,
such matters shall be brought by the Village Administrator to the attention of
the Council by inclusion in the next meeting’s agenda. Council may accept or
reject any committee report in whole or in part.
   (V)   Rule 22 - referral to Committee of the Whole. There are times when a
matter brought before Council will be referred to the Committee of the Whole.
At any meeting of the Committee of the Whole, the Mayor shall preside. The
Mayor shall inform the public in advance of the time and place of the meeting.
Referral to this Committee may take place when a major situation or problem
arises on which it is felt that every member of the Council should have an
opportunity to express themselves and debate the issue; discussion in the
regular Council meeting would consume too much time and interfere with the
regular order of business; and the Council wants to ensure the participation of
all Council members. The Committee of the Whole shall be governed by the
Council rules in deliberations, except that no limit is placed on time or
frequency of speaking, that the previous question cannot be moved, and that the
roll call cannot be demanded. The Committee of the Whole will report its
recommendations or findings to Council. If the Committee believes that further
study or investigation is indicated, it may recommend to Council that the
matter be referred to a standing or special or ad hoc committee. Any report of
this Committee shall be presented to Council, just as in the case of any other
committee report.
   (W)   Rule 23 - legislation presented to Council.
      (1)   The Village Council may amend or change the number, shape, area or
regulations of any zoning ordinance, but no such amendment or change shall
become effective unless the ordinance proposing it is first submitted to the
Planning Commission and the Commission is allowed a reasonable time, not less
than 30 days, for consideration and report.
(R.C. § 713.10)
      (2)   Before any zoning ordinance, measure, regulation or amendments
thereto, authorized by the Revised Code, may be passed, the Village Council
shall hold a public hearing thereon, and shall give at least 30 days’ notice of
the time and place thereof; provided, however, that the zoning ordinance of the
village shall control the proceedings for these matters.
(R.C. § 713.12)
      (3)   The Solicitor or Village Administrator has the primary
responsibility of preparing legislation for Council consideration in the manner
prescribed by law. Usually ordinances and resolutions will be introduced during
a Council meeting by the Mayor. Members of the Council present may also
introduce ordinances and resolutions. In addition, ordinances and resolutions
may be presented to the Council upon written recommendation of a committee of
the Council. When ordinances and resolutions are prepared, they may be referred
directly to Council or to the committee concerned with the subject matter of
the ordinance or resolution. When they are submitted directly to the Council
for action, the Council may refer the pending legislation to the appropriate
committee or take action at the Council meeting. When applicable, the committee
will only determine whether the subject matter has been fully covered. The
committee will then report on the ordinance or resolution at the next regular
Council meeting. The committee will also furnish a copy of the ordinance or
resolution to the Village Administrator for review and inclusion of the agenda
for the next meeting.
   (X)   Rule 24 - passage of ordinances and resolutions.
      (1)   Each ordinance and resolution shall be read by title only, provided
the Council may require any reading to be in full by a majority vote of the
members elected thereto. Each ordinance or resolution shall be read on three
different days, provided the Council may dispense with the rule by a vote of at
least three-fourths of its members elected thereto. The vote on the passage of
each ordinance or resolution shall be taken by roll call and entered upon the
journal. Each ordinance or resolution shall be passed, except as otherwise
provided by laws, by a vote of at least a majority of all the members of the
Council.
      (2)   Actions by the Council, not required by law to be by ordinance or
resolution, may be taken by motion approved by at least a majority vote of the
members present at the meeting when the action is taken.
(R.C. § 731.17)
      (3)   No ordinance, resolution or bylaw shall contain more than one
subject, which shall be clearly expressed in its title. No bylaw or ordinance,
or section thereof, shall be revived or amended, unless the bylaw, ordinance or
section so amended shall be repealed. Each such bylaw, resolution and ordinance
shall be adopted or passed by a separate vote of the Village Council and the
roll call shall be entered upon the journal.
(R.C. § 731.19)
      (4)   Ordinances, resolutions and bylaws shall be authenticated by the
signature of the presiding officer and Village Fiscal Officer. Such ordinances
and resolutions shall be approved as to form by the Village Solicitor.
Ordinances of a general nature or providing for improvements shall be published
as provided by sections R.C. §§ 731.21 and 731.22 before going into operation.
No ordinance shall take effect until the expiration of ten days after the first
publication of such notice. As soon as a bylaw, resolution or ordinance is
passed and signed, it shall be recorded by the in a book furnished by the
Village Council for that purpose.
(R.C. § 731.20)
      (5)   A succinct summary of each village ordinance or resolution and all
statements, orders, proclamations, notices and reports required by law or
ordinance to be published shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the village.
      (6)   Proof of the publication and required circulation of any newspaper
used as a medium of publication as provided by this section shall be made by
affidavit of the proprietor of the newspaper, and shall be filed with the
Fiscal Officer.
      (7)   The publication shall contain the following notice:
“The complete text of each ordinance or resolution may be obtained or viewed at
the Bluffton Village Fiscal Officer’s office and on the village website.”
      (8)   The Village Solicitor shall review the summary of an ordinance or
resolution published under this section prior to forwarding it for publication,
to ensure that the summary is legally accurate and sufficient.
      (9)   Upon publication of a summary of an ordinance or resolution in
accordance with this section, the Fiscal Officer shall supply a copy of the
complete text of each such ordinance or resolution to any person, upon request,
and may charge a reasonable fee, set by the legislative authority, for each
copy supplied. The Fiscal Officer shall post a copy of the text at the Fiscal
Officer’s office and at every other location designated by the legislative
authority.
(R.C. 731.21).
      (10)   The publications required shall be for the following times (R.C. §
731.22):
         (a)   Ordinances and resolutions, or summaries of ordinances or
resolutions, and proclamations of elections, once a week for two consecutive
weeks;
         (b)   Notices, once a week for two consecutive weeks; and
         (c)   All other matters shall be published once.
      (11)   Immediately after the expiration of the period of publication for
ordinances or summaries of ordinances required by R.C. § 731.22, the Village
Fiscal Officer shall enter on the record of ordinances, in a blank to be left
for such purpose under the recorded ordinance, a certificate stating in which
newspapers and on what dates such publication was made, and shall sign his or
her name thereto officially. Such certificates shall be prima facie evidence
that legal publication of the ordinance or summary of the ordinance was made.
(R.C. § 731.24)
      (12)   Every member present when a question is put shall vote, unless the
member notifies the Council of his or her intention and reason for abstaining
in lieu of his or her vote. Any member may demand the division of a question
when the sense will admit thereof. Any member shall have the liberty to dissent
from and protest against any ordinance, resolution or order of the Council, and
have the reason for his or her dissent entered upon the minutes. Each motion
shall be seconded before discussion or further action thereon.
(RRO 255)
   (Y)   Rule 25 - reading of ordinances and resolutions. When ordinances and
resolutions are presented to the Council, they shall be given a first reading
at the regular Council meeting or a special meeting called for such purpose.
Resolutions shall be voted and acted upon in the same manner as ordinances.
When an ordinance or resolution is presented, it shall be read by title by the
Village Fiscal Officer. After debate, the roll call shall be called and it
shall be set aside for second reading at the next meeting. When an ordinance or
resolution is presented for a second reading, it shall be read by title by the
Village Fiscal Officer. After debate, a roll call vote shall be called and it
shall be set aside for third reading at the next meeting. When an ordinance or
resolution is presented for a third reading, it shall be read by title by the
Village Fiscal Officer. After debate, the roll call shall be called and the
vote on the third reading shall be final.
   (Z)   Rule 26 - majority defined. Each ordinance or resolution shall be
passed, except as otherwise provided by laws, by a vote of at least a majority
of all the members of the Council. Actions by the Council, not required by law
to be by ordinance or resolution, may be taken by motion approved by at least a
majority vote of the members present at the meeting when the action is taken.
(R.C. § 731.17)
   (AA)   Rule 27 - emergency ordinances or resolutions. Ordinances or other
measures providing for appropriations for the current expenses of the village,
or for street improvements petitioned for by the owners of a majority of the
feet front of the property benefitted and to be especially assessed for the
cost thereof, and emergency ordinances or measures necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health or safety in such municipal
corporation, shall go into immediate effect. Such emergency ordinances or
measures must, upon a roll call, receive a two-thirds vote of all the members
elected to the Village Council, and the reasons for such necessity shall be set
forth in one section of the ordinance or other measure.
(R.C. § 731.30)
   (BB)   Rule 28 - amending resolutions or ordinances. It shall be in order to
amend a resolution or ordinance at any time, but if such ordinance or
resolution is of a general or permanent nature and a material amendment is made
any member may move to hold the resolution or ordinance over to the next
regular meeting.
   (CC)   Rule 29 - limitations on debate.
      (1)   No member of the Council, while Council is in session, shall engage
in debate or discussion with anyone save another member of the Council or the
Mayor or a person who has been granted by the presiding officer the privilege
to address the Council. All remarks shall be directed to the presiding officer
unless otherwise permitted by the presiding officer.
      (2)   It is the intent that all such debate or discussion shall be guided
by Robert’s Rules of Order (RRO). Every member when about to speak on a
question, or make a motion, shall respectfully address the presiding officer,
who shall pronounce the name of the member entitled to the floor. The member
shall confine himself or herself to the question under debate and shall avoid
personalities. Discourteous language, personal attacks or other disruptive
behavior shall be out of order and such member may have his or her debate
suspended for such violations by the presiding officer.
      (3)   No member shall be allowed to speak, except from his or her own
seat, nor more than once until every member choosing to speak shall have
spoken, nor more than twice on the same subject without consent from the
presiding officer.
   (DD)   Rule 30 - adjourned meetings. When the business of Council is not
completed within the available time at a given meeting, the meeting, by motion,
may be recessed to a definite time. When the Council reconvenes at the
appointed time, if a quorum is present, it takes up the business where it left
off at its former meeting. A recessed meeting is merely a continuation of the
meeting from which it was recessed and not for the introduction of new
business.
   (EE)   Rule 31 - motions; when debatable; withdrawal. When a motion is made
and seconded, it shall, before debate, be stated by the presiding officer.
Every motion shall be reduced to writing, if the Mayor or any members require
it, and cannot be withdrawn after acknowledgment by the presiding officer
without the consent of the Council.
   (FF)   Rule 32 - to refer; precedence. When there is a question of referring
a given subject to a standing committee or to a special committee, the question
of reference to a standing committee shall be first. A motion to refer shall
preclude debate or amendment of the main question. A motion to refer it to a
standing committee shall have preference. All petitions shall be presented and
read by the Mayor or Village Fiscal Officer, or by a member in his or her
place, and the contents being briefly stated, shall be referred to a committee.
   (GG)   Rule 33 - Adjournment; unqualified; qualified. A motion to adjourn
shall always be in order except upon immediate repetition or when a member has
the floor, or when the previous question has been ordered, or when the Council
is engaged in voting. When any business is pending the motion must be made in
its simplest form, and is not subject to amendment or debate, but if made when
no other business is pending, it can be amended the same as other questions.
When the consideration of a question is interrupted by an adjournment, it is
removed from before the Council and must be brought forward in the usual way. A
motion to lay on the table shall preclude all debate or amendments. If the
motion prevails, the consideration of the subject cannot be resumed, except as
unfinished business, without the consent of a majority of the members present.
   (HH)   Rule 34 - acceptable motions; order of precedence.
      (1)   When a question or motion is before Council or under debate, no
motion shall be received except the following:
         (a)   To adjourn (unqualified);
         (b)   To lay matter of business on the table;
         (c)   For the previous question (request that discussion end and vote
taken);
         (d)   To postpone definitely to a certain time or day;
         (e)   To commit (to refer back to standing or special committee);
         (f)   To amend the motion on the floor;
         (g)   To postpone indefinitely; and
         (h)   To recess.
      (2)   The several motions shall have precedence in the order in which
they are herein arranged.
   (II)   Rule 35 - excusal from attendance. Council members are expected to
attend all regular meetings unless the member informs the Mayor and Village
Administrator of his or her absence as provided in these rules. Should a member
have more than three absences, the Mayor or Council President shall inquire
into the causes and report to the Council at the next regular meeting for
action, if any.
   (JJ)   Rule 36 - executive sessions - Solicitor and Mayor always unless not
invited.
      (1)   The Council may hold an executive session only after a majority of
a quorum of the Council determines, by a roll call vote, to hold an executive
session and only at a regular or special Council meeting for the sole purpose
of the consideration of any of the following matters:
         (a)   Executive session - personnel. To consider the appointment,
employment, dismissal, discipline, promotion, demotion or compensation of a
public employee or official, or the investigation of charges or complaints
against a public employee, official, licensee, or regulated individual, unless
the public employee, official, licensee or regulated individual requests a
public hearing. Except as otherwise provided by law, no public body shall hold
an executive session for the discipline of an elected official for conduct
related to the performance of the elected official’s official duties or for the
elected official’s removal from office. If a public body holds an executive
session pursuant to this section, the motion and vote to hold that executive
session shall state which one or more of the approved purposes listed in this
section are the purposes for which the executive session is to be held, but
need not include the name of any person to be considered at the meeting;
         (b)   Executive session - real estate. To consider the purchase of
property for public purposes, or for the sale of property at competitive
bidding, if premature disclosure of information would give an unfair
competitive or bargaining advantage to a person whose personal, private
interest is adverse to the general public interest. No member of a public body
shall use this section as a subterfuge for providing covert information to
prospective buyers or sellers. A purchase or sale of public property is void if
the seller or buyer of the public property has received covert information from
a member of a public body that has not been disclosed to the general public in
sufficient time for other prospective buyers and sellers to prepare and submit
offers;
         (c)   Executive session - legal. Conferences with an attorney for the
public body concerning disputes involving the public body that is the subject
of pending or imminent court action;
         (d)   Executive session - personnel. Preparing for, conducting or
reviewing negotiations or bargaining sessions with public employees concerning
their compensation or other terms and conditions of their employment;
         (e)   Executive session - confidential matters by law. Matters
required to be kept confidential by federal law or regulations or state
statutes; and
         (f)   Executive session - security arrangements. Details relative to
the security arrangements and emergency response protocols for a public body or
a public office, if disclosure of the matters discussed could reasonably be
expected to jeopardize the security of the public body or public office. If a
public body holds an executive session to consider any of the matters listed in
this section, the motion and vote to hold that executive session shall state
which one or more of the approved matters listed in those divisions are to be
considered at the executive session. A resolution, rule or formal action of any
kind is invalid unless adopted in an open meeting of the public body. A
resolution, rule or formal action adopted in an open meeting that results from
deliberations in a meeting not open to the public is invalid unless the
deliberations were for a purpose specifically authorized in this section and
conducted at an executive session held in compliance with this section. A
resolution, rule or formal action adopted in an open meeting is invalid if the
public body that adopted the resolution, rule or formal action violated this
division (JJ)(1)(f).
(R.C. § 121.22)
      (2)   The topic must be clearly stated in the meeting minutes. Prior to
commencing the executive session, a motion will be made and seconded to adjourn
the regular Council meeting into an executive session. All Council members
present shall attend the executive session with the Mayor and the Village
Solicitor.
      (3)   The Mayor shall be excluded only in cases where disciplinary action
against the Mayor is being considered by Council.
      (4)   The Village Solicitor shall be excluded only in cases where his or
her contract is the subject of debate or upon the concurrence of a majority of
the Council members present at a meeting.
      (5)   During executive sessions, the Council President shall preside.
      (6)   All other persons in attendance, including audience members,
Village Fiscal Officer, Village Administrator, Police Chief and Fire Chief, and
EMS Chief will be excused from the meeting unless authorized to stay by a
majority of Council members. Any person invited to the executive session will
be excused after the need for that person’s attendance has concluded.
      (7)   There shall be no minutes of any executive session made except to
record a vote and second to adjourn back into regular session.
      (8)   All discussion, debate and information provided in an executive
session are considered nonpublic material and information. Should a Council
member wish to disclose information or a public record is requested that was
part of an executive session, before such dissemination or release, the advice
and counsel of the Village Solicitor shall be obtained to ensure that no
nonpublic record or information is released. Each person attending shall
maintain this confidential nature of the meeting. Violation of this rule shall
be considered out of order and subject to discipline as provided by rule or
law.
      (9)   At the conclusion of the executive session, a motion will be made
and seconded to adjourn the executive session and go back into the regular
Council meeting which shall be reported to the Village Fiscal Officer by the
presiding officer for inclusion in the regular meeting minutes.
   (KK)   Rule 37 - Sunshine Law; open meetings.
      (1)   Public officials are required to take official action and to
conduct all deliberations upon official business only in open meetings unless
the subject matter is specifically exempted by law. MEETINGS mean any
prearranged discussion of the public business of the Council by its members.
      (2)   This division (KK) does not apply to an audit conference conducted
by the Auditor of state or independent certified public accountants with
officials of the public office that is the subject of the audit or executive
sessions as set forth herein.
      (3)   The Village Council shall have regular meetings as set forth
herein. Other meetings, committee meetings or special meetings may be scheduled
by announcement made at any regular or special meeting. The Village Fiscal
Officer shall maintain a calendar of any scheduled meeting that is available to
the public during regular business hours. Every effort will also be made to
provide notice via the village website.
      (4)   Unless otherwise stated, all meetings shall be held at the Bluffton
Village Hall, Third Floor Council Chamber.
      (5)   Any special meeting not announced during a regular or special
meeting shall not be held unless 24 hours’ advance notice to the news media
that have requested notification, except in the event of an emergency requiring
immediate official action. In the event of an emergency, the member or members
calling the meeting shall notify the news media that have requested
notification immediately of the time, place, and purpose of the meeting.
      (6)   The Village Council shall provide that any person, upon request and
payment of a reasonable fee, may obtain reasonable advance notification of all
meetings at which any specific type of public business is to be discussed.
Provisions for advance notification may include, but are not limited to,
mailing the agenda of meetings to all subscribers on a mailing list or mailing
notices in self-addressed, stamped envelopes provided by the person.
(R.C. § 121.22)
      (7)   The Village Fiscal Officer shall post a statement of the time and
place of regular and special meetings of Council, or any other public meetings
being held not later than the second day preceding the meeting on the bulletin
board in the main lobby of the Village Hall and on the village website for the
public to be notified. The Village Fiscal Officer shall post a statement of the
time and place of any organizational meeting of the Council at least 24 hours
before the time of such organizational meeting. Upon qualified adjournment of
any regular or special meeting to another day, the Village Fiscal Officer shall
promptly post notice of the time and place of such adjourned meeting. Except in
the case of emergency special meetings, the Village Fiscal Officer shall, no
later than 24 hours before the time of a special meeting, post a statement of
the time, place and purpose of such special meeting on the bulletin board in
the main lobby of the Village Hall and on the village website for the public to
read. Any news medium organization that desires to be given advance
notification of special meetings of any municipal body shall file with the
Village Fiscal Officer a written request thereof. Except in event of an
emergency requiring immediate action, a special meeting shall not be held
unless at least 24 hours’ advance notice of the time, place and purpose of such
meeting is given to the news media requesting advance notification.
      (8)   Media requests for such advance notification of special meetings
shall specify: the name of the media; the name and address of person to whom
notification may be sent or delivered; the names, addresses and telephone
numbers and e-mail addresses (both during and after business hours) of at least
two persons, to either of whom oral notifications to the media may be given;
and at least one telephone number which the request identifies as being manned
and which can be called at any hour for the purpose of giving oral notification
to such medium. Such request shall be effective for one year from date of
filing with the Village Fiscal Officer. Each news medium shall be informed of
such period of effectiveness at the time it files its request. Any notification
provided herein to be given by the Village Fiscal Officer may be given by or
under authority of the Village Fiscal Officer and a reasonable attempt at
notification shall constitute notification in compliance with these rules.
      (9)   All ordinances, resolutions, statements, orders, proclamations,
notices and reports now and hereafter requiring publication shall be published
in a newspaper of general circulation within the village and the village
website, unless otherwise required by law or directed by Council.
   (LL)   Rule 38 - public records. It is the policy of the village that
openness leads to a better informed citizenry, which leads to better government
and better public policy. It is the policy of the village to adhere to the
state’s Public Records Act, R.C. § 149.43. As required by the Ohio Revised
Code, records will be organized and maintained so that they are available for
inspection and copying. The village shall have a copy of its current records
retention schedule readily available to the public at its administrative office
and shall post a summary of the policy in that office. The village recognizes
that failure to comply with a request may result in remedies and damages
according to R.C. § 149.43. The Council and all members thereof are committed
to comply with all aspects of the state’s Public Records Act and with the
village’s public records policy and retention schedule.
   (MM)   Rule 39 - appointment of Village Solicitor. Whenever the Village
Solicitor resigns his or her term of office, he or she shall submit his or her
resignation in writing to the Council and such resignation shall take effect on
the effective date of the resignation letter. When appropriate, the Council may
notify the local newspaper, as well as, post a notice on the designated
bulletin boards in the community and village website that such vacancy exists
and that the Council will accept applications from qualified citizens who
desire to fill the vacancy for the remaining appointed term. The Council may at
its discretion conduct individual interviews for the position at a Committee of
the Whole in executive session.
   (NN)   Rule 40 - Council confirmation of appointments. Whenever the Council
is required to confirm any Mayor’s appointment, the Council may, at its
discretion, conduct an interview with the selected appointee prior to
confirmation of the appointment.
   (OO)   Rule 41 - memorialization of Council rules. The Council rules shall
be memorialized by an ordinance of Council.
(Ord. 9-14, passed 10-6-2014)
CHAPTER 32: VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Bluffton Airport Commission
   
32.01   Creation
   
32.02   Composition
   
32.03   Location of office
   
32.04   Compensation; vacancy
   
32.05   Organizational meeting
   
32.06   Commission’s duties
   
32.07   Open meetings
Cross-reference:
   Council rules, see §
31.01
BLUFFTON AIRPORT COMMISSION
§ 32.01 CREATION.
   There is hereby created a Bluffton Airport Commission to oversee the
operation of the Bluffton Airport.
(Ord. 1-80, passed 2-5-1980)
§ 32.02 COMPOSITION.
   (A)   The Commission shall be comprised of five members and two alternates
who shall be selected by the Council of the village for terms of one to five
years.
   (B)   At its organizational meeting, the Board shall appoint one member for
a one-year term, one for a two-year term, one for a three-year term, one for a
four-year term and one for a five-year term. Those members so selected for each
term shall be eligible for reappointment at the conclusion of their terms.
(Ord. 1-80, passed 2-5-1980)
§ 32.03 LOCATION OF OFFICE.
   The principal office of the Commission will be located in the Council
Chambers in the Village Hall.
(Ord. 1-80, passed 2-5-1980)
§ 32.04 COMPENSATION; VACANCY.
   Members shall serve without compensation. Any vacancy on the Board of
Trustees shall be filled by the Council of the village within 30 days from the
date the vacancy occurs.
(Ord. 1-80, passed 2-5-1980)
§ 32.05 ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING.
   At its first meeting in each year, the Commission shall organize by electing
one of its members as Chairperson and another as Vice-Chairperson and another
as Secretary. At each annual meeting thereafter, the Commission shall elect
from its membership a Chairperson and a Vice-Chairperson and a Secretary who
shall serve for a term of one year.
(Ord. 1-80, passed 2-5-1980)
§ 32.06 COMMISSION’S DUTIES.
   Upon the creation of the Commission as herein provided and with the consent
of the Council of the village, the Commission may make, adopt, amend and repeal
bylaws for the administration of its affairs and rules and regulations for the
control of the administration and operation of airports and airport facilities
under its jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1-80, passed 2-5-1980)
§ 32.07 OPEN MEETINGS.
   All meetings of the Commission shall be open to the public as provided in
R.C. § 121.22.
(Ord. 1-80, passed 2-5-1980)
CHAPTER 33: VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Section
Village Administrator
   
33.01   Waiver of certain residency requirements
   
33.02   Director of Village Services
Director of Public Safety
   
33.15   Establishment
   
33.16   Appointment
   
33.17   Emergency decisions
   
33.18   Supervisor
   
33.19   Powers and responsibilities
Fiscal Officer
   
33.30   Merging of offices
Cross-reference:
   Council rules, see §
31.01
VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR
§ 33.01 WAIVER OF CERTAIN RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The requirement in R.C. § 735.217 that a Village Administrator become
a resident of the village within six months of appointment is hereby waived.
   (B)   Any appointed Village Administrator must relocate to the village
within 18 months of his or her appointment.
(Ord. 08-17, passed - -2017)
§ 33.02 DIRECTOR OF VILLAGE SERVICES.
   The reference in any ordinances or resolutions of the village to the
position of “Director of Village Services” is hereby amended to read “Village
Administrator” and the position of “Assistant Director of Village Services” is
hereby amended to read “Assistant Administrator” and the positions of “Director
of Village Services” and “Assistant Director of Village Services” are hereby
abolished.
(Ord. 3-85, passed 2-19-1985)
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY
§ 33.15 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There shall be an office in the administration of the village, the Office of
Director of Public Safety. At any time that the Mayor does not appoint a
Director of Public Safety or when the Director of Public Safety shall be absent
from the village, then the Mayor shall exercise all of the powers of the
Director of Public Safety.
(Ord. 22-13, passed 11-11-2013)
§ 33.16 APPOINTMENT.
   The Mayor, as the chief executive of the village, shall have the sole power
to appoint a Director of Public Safety, from time to time, if the Mayor deems
it necessary, and at his or her sole discretion, to carry out administrative
oversight of the police, fire and emergency medical services departments for
the village. The Mayor may appoint the Chief of the Fire, Police or EMS Service
Departments as Director of Public Safety. If one of these Chiefs is appointed,
then that Chief shall perform both offices and it is specifically found and
declared that there is no conflict in holding both positions.
(Ord. 22-13, passed 11-11-2013)
§ 33.17 EMERGENCY DECISIONS.
   The Director of Public Safety shall make emergency decisions or declarations
in support of the safety of the residents of the village, and the public safety
departments to include the police, fire and emergency medical services.
(Ord. 22-13, passed 11-11-2013)
§ 33.18 SUPERVISOR.
   (A)   The Director of Public Safety will be the direct supervisor of the
Police Chief, the Fire Chief and the EMS Chief for administrative oversight
related to budget, purchases, personnel management and discipline, and
department planning (short and long range). The Director of Public Safety will
serve as the liaison between Council and the public safety departments.
   (B)   The Chiefs of the Police, Fire and EMS Departments shall remain fully
in their capacity to manage emergency situations within their respective
jurisdictions and areas of responsibility. The Director of Public Safety is
authorized to declare a state of emergency for the village until such time that
the Mayor and Council can legally meet to confirm such action.
(Ord. 22-13, passed 11-11-2013)
§ 33.19 POWERS AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Director of Public Safety shall have the following specific powers and
responsibilities.
   (A)   Fiscal - routine purchases.
      (1)   All village obligated purchases must have the respective Police,
Fire or EMS Chiefs approval and a purchase order secured from the Village
Fiscal Officer prior to the purchase being made.
      (2)   All village obligated purchases for Police, Fire and EMS
Departments of more than $500 must have the Director of Public Safety’s
approval, and a purchase order secured from the Village Fiscal Officer prior to
the purchase being made.
      (3)   Village obligated purchases in excess of $15,000 must be
recommended by the Director of Public Safety to Village Council for approval,
and a purchase order secured from the Village Fiscal Officer prior to the
purchase being made.
      (4)   In exigent and emergency circumstances, purchases without a
purchase order in consultation with the Director of Public Safety may be made
for the immediate preservation of life and safety without a purchase order,
however the Fiscal Officer shall be notified the next business day of exigent
purchase.
   (B)   Fiscal - budget/planning.
      (1)   The Police, Fire and EMS Chiefs will work in consultation with the
Director of Public Safety and Village Fiscal Officer to develop an annual
budget for their respective departments.
      (2)   The Police, Fire and EMS Chiefs will manage their respective budget
as approved by Council in consultation and approval of the Director of Public
Safety.
      (3)   The Police, Fire and EMS Chiefs will develop longer range
purchasing and training plans in consultation and approval of the Director of
Public Safety for presentation to the Village Council as necessary to achieve
department efficiency and meet the public safety needs.
   (C)   Personnel.
      (1)   The Police, Fire and EMS Department Chiefs shall routinely manage
personnel in normal operations, staffing, assignments and shall be the top of
the chain of command for their respective departments.
      (2)   (a)   Any and all disciplinary issues in the Police, Fire and EMS
Departments will be managed by the Police, Fire and EMS Chiefs in consultation
with the Director of Public Safety. Should the Department Chief and the
Director of Public Safety disagree regarding disciplinary issues, the matter
will be presented to the Mayor for final review and action. The Mayor, as the
chief executive officer of the village, shall approve, disapprove or modify any
disciplinary action and may make independent inquiry into any disciplinary
matter as the Mayor deems appropriate.
         (b)   All appeals processes set forth in the village employee manual
or other law, ordinance or regulation shall remain in full force and effect.
      (3)   Recommendations for hiring, promotion, demotion or removal for the
Police, Fire and EMS Departments shall be approved by the Director of Public
Safety for presentation to the Mayor and Village Council for final action.
(Ord. 22-13, passed 11-11-2013)
FISCAL OFFICER
§ 33.30 MERGING OF OFFICES.
   (A)   The duties of the elective office of Village Clerk-Treasurer for the
village is hereby changed and merged into the one appointed office of Village
Fiscal Officer.
   (B)   The Village Fiscal Officer hereinafter appointed shall perform the
duties provided by law for the Village Clerk and Village Treasurer and any
other duties consistent with the nature of the office that are provided for by
ordinance of the village.
   (C)   The Village Fiscal Officer shall be appointed by the Mayor and such
appointment shall only be effective upon approval of a majority vote of the
Council of the village. Pay and benefits for the Village Fiscal Officer shall
be set and may be amended by Council as the pay and benefits of any other
appointed official for the village.
   (D)   The Village Fiscal Officer shall be an elector of the village unless,
by ordinance, the village should approve the residence outside of the village
by the Village Fiscal Officer.
   (E)   The Village Fiscal Officer may be removed without cause either by the
Mayor with the consent of a majority of the Council of the village or the
Village Fiscal Officer may be removed by a three- fourths vote of the Council
of the village with or without the consent of the Mayor.
(Ord. 05-06, passed 5-22-2006)
CHAPTER 34: PERSONNEL POLICY
Section
   
34.01   Adopted by reference
§ 34.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The personnel policies of the village, including the village employee
manual, are adopted by reference and incorporated herein as fully as if set out
at length in this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 6-00, passed 4-10-2000; Ord. 14-02, passed 6-4-2002; Ord. 05-03, passed
6-23-2003; Ord. 22-03, passed 11-24-2003; Ord. 22-04, passed 12-27-2004; Ord.
01-06, passed 2-27-2006; Ord. 26-07, passed 12-20-2007; Ord. 05-09, passed 4-
13-2009; Ord. 33-10, passed 11-22-2010; Ord. 08-15, passed 5-4-2015; Ord. 05-
2020, passed 5-26-2020; Ord. 07-2021, passed 7-26-2021)
CHAPTER 35: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
Police Rank Structure
   
35.01   Rank structure
POLICE RANK STRUCTURE
§ 35.01 RANK STRUCTURE.
   (A)   The Village Council establishes an amended rank structure for the
Village Police Department.
   (B)   Effective on January 1, 2017, there will be the following ranks for
the Village Police Department:
      (1)   Chief of Police.
         (a)   Head of the Department and having all duties of Village Marshal
as set forth in the R.C. §§ 737.15 et seq.; and
         (b)   This is a salaried position with compensation as determined by
the village.
      (2)   Police lieutenant. Supervisory position having generally the duties
as police sergeants however possessing a superior rank. May have additional
responsibilities as determined by the Chief and the Mayor. This is a salaried
position with compensation as determined by the village. This rank is deemed to
be a non-mandated position and the Police Department need not have an acting
officer in this rank. Award of this rank will be upon recommendation of the
Chief to the Mayor and does not entitled the holder to any increase in salary
upon award of rank;
      (3)   Police sergeant. No more than two at any time. Supervisory position
having generally the duties of assisting the Chief with administrative duties
of the Department, special projects and other duties as assigned by the Chief.
This rank is a superior rank to police officers other than the Chief and
lieutenant. This is a salaried position with compensation as determined by the
village. Award of this rank will be upon recommendation of the Chief to the
Mayor;
      (4)   Police corporal. No limitations on number. This is not a
supervisory position and has the same duties of a police officer. The rank of
corporal is an honorary rank granted by the village to recognize an officer of
long service and/or an officer deserving of special recognition. This rank is
deemed to be a non-mandated position and the Police Department need not have an
acting officer in this rank. Award of this rank will be upon recommendation of
the Chief to the Mayor and does not entitled the holder to any increase in
salary upon award of rank; and
      (5)   Police officer. No limitations on number. This is a non-supervisory
position and has generally the duties of a Deputy Village Marshal as set forth
in R.C. § 737.15. Other duties as assigned.
(Ord. 22-16, passed - -2016)
CHAPTER 36: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
36.01   Establishing all volunteer fire personnel as being on regular status
   
36.02   Medical Director for the Bluffton EMS
§ 36.01 ESTABLISHING ALL VOLUNTEER FIRE PERSONNEL AS BEING ON REGULAR STATUS.
   The use of auxiliary fire personnel will be discontinued. Fire personnel
currently serving under auxiliary status will be moved to regular status and
receive the same compensation as all regular fire personnel as outlined in Ord.
24-03. Any and all future volunteer fire personnel will serve under regular
status.
(Ord. 26-08, passed 10-27-2008)
§ 36.02 MEDICAL DIRECTOR FOR THE BLUFFTON EMS.
   The village shall employ a Medical Director for the Bluffton EMS.
(Ord. 30-92, passed - -1992)
CHAPTER 37: TAXATION AND FINANCE
Section
Village Funds
   
37.001   C4–Bluffton in Bloom
Treasury Investment Board; Treasury Investment Account
   
37.015   Treasury Investment Account
   
37.016   Treasury Investment Board
   
37.017   Investment
Transient Occupancy Tax
   
37.030   Definitions
   
37.031   Imposition of tax
   
37.032   Transient guest to pay tax
   
37.033   Tax to be separately stated and charged
   
37.034   Registration
   
37.035   Records, inspection, destruction
   
37.036   Reporting and remitting
   
37.037   Refunds
   
37.038   Duties of the Tax Administrator
   
37.039   Investigative powers of the Tax Administrator; confidential
information
   
37.040   Failure to collect and report tax; determination by Tax Administrator
   
37.041   Interest
   
37.042   Action to collect
   
37.043   Violations
   
37.044   Collection of tax after termination
Municipal Income Tax
   
37.055   Authority to levy tax
   
37.056   Effective date
   
37.057   Definitions
   
37.058   Income subject to tax for individuals
   
37.059   Collection at source
   
37.060   Income subject to net profit tax
   
37.061   Declaration of estimated tax
   
37.062   Credit for tax paid
   
37.063   Annual return
   
37.064   Penalty, interest, fees and charges
   
37.065   Audit
   
37.066   Rounding
   
37.067   Authority and powers of the Tax Administrator
   
37.068   Confidentiality
   
37.069   Fraud
   
37.070   Opinion of the Tax Administrator
   
37.071   Assessment; appeal based on presumption of delivery
   
37.072   Local Board of Tax Review; appeal to Local Board of Tax Review
   
37.073   Actions to recover; statute of limitations
   
37.074   Adoption of rules
   
37.075   Collection of tax after termination of subchapter
   
37.076   Savings clause
   37.077   Information submission by landlords
Filing Net Profit Taxes
   
37.090   Council findings
   
37.091   Filing net profit taxes; election to be subject to provisions of
subchapter
   
37.092   Definitions
   
37.093   Applicability; taxable situs; apportionment
   
37.094   Information provided to Tax Administrator; confidentiality
   
37.095   Filing of annual return; remittance; disposition of funds
   
37.096   Electronic filing
   
37.097   Consolidated returns
   
37.098   Failure to pay taxes
   
37.099   Declaration of estimated taxes
   
37.100   Additional penalties
   
37.101   Assessments against taxpayer
   
37.102   Refund applications
   
37.103   Amended returns
   
37.104   Examination of records and other documents and persons
   
37.105   Credits
 
   
37.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Council rules, see §
31.01
   Fee Schedule, see
Ch. 39
   Village Officials, see
Ch. 33
VILLAGE FUNDS
§ 37.001 C4–BLUFFTON IN BLOOM.
   The Fiscal Officer for the village be and is hereby authorized to establish
the following fund: C4 - Bluffton in Bloom
(Ord. 7-18, passed 4-23-2018)
TREASURY INVESTMENT BOARD; TREASURY INVESTMENT ACCOUNT
§ 37.015 TREASURY INVESTMENT ACCOUNT.
   (A)   In accordance with R.C. §§ 731.56, 731.57 and 731.58, there is hereby
created an account to be known as the Treasury Investment Account which shall
be maintained by the Fiscal Officer and in which there shall be entered all
transactions related to the investment of treasury funds under R.C. §§ 731.56
and 731.57.
   (B)   The Treasury Investment Account shall be maintained in accordance with
the applicable provisions of R.C. § 731.58.
(Ord. 11-85, passed 6-4-1985)
§ 37.016 TREASURY INVESTMENT BOARD.
   The Mayor, Fiscal Officer and Solicitor of the village shall constitute the
Treasury Investment Board.
(Ord. 11-85, passed 6-4-1985)
§ 37.017 INVESTMENT.
   In accordance with R.C. § 731.56, this Council hereby determines that
whenever there are monies in the treasury of the village which will not be
required to be used by the village for a period of six months or more, such
monies may, in lieu of being deposited in a bank, be invested in obligations of
the village as well as in those additional obligations which are authorized by
the provisions of R.C. § 731.56, and such investments shall be made in
accordance with R.C. §§ 731.56 and 731.57, and the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 11-85, passed 6-4-1985)
TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX
§ 37.030 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOTEL and MOTEL. Every establishment kept, used, maintained, advertised or
held out to the public to be a place where sleeping accommodations are offered
to guests, in which five or more rooms are used for the accommodations of such
guests, whether such rooms are in one or several structures.
   OPERATOR. The person who is the owner or operator of the hotel or motel and
who furnished the lodging.
   TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The Tax Administrator or the person designated and
appointed by the Mayor to execute the duties of the Administrator and shall be
the same person as designated Tax Administrator.
   TRANSIENT GUEST. A person or persons occupying a room or rooms for sleeping
accommodations for less than 30 consecutive days.
(Ord. 3-98, passed 4-13-1998)
§ 37.031 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   (A)   There is hereby levied an excise tax of 3% of the amount paid or to be
paid by the transient guest on transactions in which lodging by a hotel or
motel is or is to be furnished to transient guests.
   (B)   The tax applies and is collectible at the time the lodging is
furnished regardless of the time when the price is paid. The tax does not apply
to lodging furnished to employees of the state or of its political
subdivisions.
   (C)   For the purpose of the proper administration of this subchapter, and
to prevent the evasion of the tax, it is presumed that all lodging furnished by
hotels or motels in this village to transient guests is subject to the tax
until the contrary is established.
(Ord. 3-98, passed 4-13-1998)
§ 37.032 TRANSIENT GUEST TO PAY TAX.
   (A)   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall be paid by the transient
guest to the operator, and each operator shall collect from the transient guest
the full and exact amount of the tax payable on each taxable lodging. If for
any reason the tax due is not paid to the operator, the Tax Administrator may
require that such tax be paid directly to the Tax Administrator.
   (B)   If the transaction is claimed to be exempt, the transient guest must
furnish to the operator, and the operator must obtain from the transient guest,
a certificate specifying the reason that the sale is not legally subject to the
tax. No exemption shall be granted except upon a claim therefor made at the
time the tax is collected and under penalty of perjury upon a form prescribed
by the Tax Administrator. All claim of exemption shall be made in the manner
prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
(Ord. 3-98, passed 4-13-1998)
§ 37.033 TAX TO BE SEPARATELY STATED AND CHARGED.
   (A)   The tax to be collected under this subchapter shall be stated and
charged separately from the charge for the lodging and shall be shown
separately on any record thereof at the time when the occupancy is arranged or
contracted and charged for, and upon every evidence of occupancy or any bill or
statement or charge made for said occupancy issued or delivered by the
operator.
   (B)   No operator shall advertise or state in any manner, whether directly
or indirectly, that the tax or any part thereof will be assumed or absorbed by
the operator, or that it will not be added to the amount charged for the
lodging, or that, if added, any part will be refunded, except in the manner
provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 3-98, passed 4-13-1998)
§ 37.034 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Within three days after the effective date of this subchapter, or
within 30 days after commencing business, whichever is late, each operator
furnishing lodging to a transient guest shall register his or her hotel or
motel with the Tax Administrator and obtain from him or her a transient
occupancy registration certificate to be at all times posted in a conspicuous
place on the premises.
   (B)   Said certificate shall, among other things, state the following:
      (1)   The name of the operator;
      (2)   The address of the hotel or motel;
      (3)   The date on which the certificate was issued; and
      (4)   “This transient occupancy registration certificate signifies that
the person named on the face hereof has fulfilled the requirements of the
hotel-motel tax subchapter by registering with the Tax Administrator of the
Village of Bluffton, Ohio, for the purpose of collecting from transient guests
the hotel-motel tax and remitting said tax to the Tax Administrator of the
Village of Bluffton, Ohio. This certificate does not constitute a permit or
license.”
(Ord. 3-98, passed 4-13-1998)
§ 37.035 RECORDS, INSPECTION, DESTRUCTION.
   Each operator shall keep complete and accurate records of lodging furnished,
together with a record of the tax collected thereon, which shall be the amount
due under this subchapter, and shall keep all invoices, bills and other
pertinent documents. If the operator furnishes lodging not subject to the tax,
the operator’s records shall contain a copy of the certificate of exemption
required by §
37.032. Such records and other documents shall be open during business hours to
the inspection of the Tax Administrator, and shall be preserved for a period of
four years, unless the Tax Administrator, in writing, consents to their
destruction within that period.
(Ord. 3-98, passed 4-13-1998)
§ 37.036 REPORTING AND REMITTING.
   (A)   Each operator shall on or before the thirtieth day following the end
of each calendar quarter thereafter, make and file a return for the preceding
calendar quarter, on forms prescribed by the Tax Administrator, showing the
receipts from furnishing lodging, the amount of tax due from the operator to
the village for the period covered by the return, and such other information as
the Tax Administrator deems necessary for the proper administration of this
subchapter. All claims for exemption from the tax filed by transient guests
with the operator during the reporting period shall be filed with the return.
Returns shall be filed with the Tax Administrator of the village, and payment
of the amount of tax shown to be due thereon shall accompany such return.
   (B)   Upon cessation of business for any reason, returns and payments shall
be due immediately.
   (C)   The returns shall be signed by the operator or his or her authorized
agent.
(Ord. 3-98, passed 4-13-1998)
§ 37.037 REFUNDS.
   (A)   No refund for taxes erroneously paid shall be made unless the claimant
establishes his or her right thereto by written record showing entitlement
thereto and makes a claim in writing on forms furnished by the Tax
Administrator, stating under penalty of perjury the specific grounds upon which
the claim is founded.
   (B)   Such claim shall be filed with the Tax Administrator within three
years of the date of payment and no refund shall be allowed thereafter.
(Ord. 3-98, passed 4-13-1998)
§ 37.038 DUTIES OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Tax Administrator shall collect and receive the tax imposed by this
subchapter.
(Ord. 3-98, passed 4-13-1998)
§ 37.039 INVESTIGATIVE POWERS OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR; CONFIDENTIAL
INFORMATION.
   (A)   The Tax Administrator, or any authorized employee, is hereby
authorized to examine the books, papers, records and income tax returns of any
operator subject to the tax levied by this subchapter for the purpose of
verifying the accuracy of any return made or, if no return was made, of
ascertaining the tax due under this subchapter. Each person shall furnish, upon
the written request of the Tax Administrator or his or her duly authorized
agent or employee, the means, facilities and opportunity for making the
examinations and investigations authorized herein.
   (B)   The Tax Administrator is hereby authorized to order any person to
appear in his or her office and to examine such person, under oath, concerning
any transaction or receipts from any transactions which was or should have been
returned for taxation under this subchapter. For such purposes, the Tax
Administrator may compel the production of books, papers, records, income tax
returns and the attendance of any person before him or her, whether as a party
or a witness, whenever he or she believes that such person has knowledge of
such transactions or receipts of such transactions pertinent to such inquiry.
   (C)   Any information gained as a result of any return, investigation,
hearing or verification required or authorized by this subchapter shall be
confidential, except for official purposes or in accordance with judicial
order. No persons shall divulge such information otherwise.
(Ord. 3-98, passed 4-13-1998) Penalty, see §
37.999
§ 37.040 FAILURE TO COLLECT AND REPORT TAX; DETERMINATION BY TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   If any operator fails or refuses to collect the hotel-motel tax or to
file a return and to make a remittance of said tax or any portion thereof as
required by this subchapter, the Tax Administrator shall proceed in such a
manner as he or she may deem best to obtain information on which to base his or
her estimate of the tax due. When the Tax Administrator has such information as
he or she is able to obtain upon which to base the assessment of any tax
imposed by this subchapter and payable by any operator who has failed or
refused to collect the same, to file a return and to make a remittance of the
proper amount thereof, he or she shall proceed to determine and assess against
such operator the tax and interest and/or penalty provided for in this
subchapter.
   (B)   In any case wherein such determination is made, the Tax Administrator
shall give notice of the amount to be assessed by serving it personally or by
registered or certified mail upon such operator. Such operator may, within ten
days after the serving or mailing of such notice, make application in writing
to the Tax Administration for a hearing on the amount assessed. If application
by the operator is not made within the time prescribed, the tax and penalty,
determined by the Tax Administrator shall become final and conclusive and
immediately due and payable. If such application is made, the Tax Administrator
shall give not less than five days’ written notice in the manner prescribed in
this section to the operator to show cause at a time and place fixed in said
notice why said amounts specified herein should not be fixed for such tax and
penalty. At any such hearing, the operator may appear and offer evidence why
such specified tax and penalty should not be so fixed. After such hearing, the
Tax Administrator shall determine the proper tax to be remitted and shall
thereafter give written notice to the operator, in the manner prescribed in
this section, of such determination and the amount of such tax and penalty. The
amount determined to be due shall be payable within 15 days.
(Ord. 3-98, passed 4-13-1998)
§ 37.041 INTEREST.
   (A)   Original delinquency. Any operator who fails to remit any tax imposed
by this subchapter within the time required shall pay a penalty equal to 10% of
the amount of the tax, in addition to the tax.
   (B)   Continued delinquency. Any operator who fails to remit any delinquent
remittance on or before a period of 30 days following the date on which the
remittance first became delinquent shall pay a delinquency penalty equal to 10%
of the amount of the tax and previous penalty in addition to the tax and the
10% penalty first imposed. An additional penalty equal to 10% of the total tax
and penalty of the previous 30-day period shall be added for each successive
30-day period that the operator remains delinquent.
   (C)   Fraud. If the Tax Administrator determines that the nonpayment of any
remittance due under this subchapter is due to fraud, a penalty equal to 25% on
the amount of the tax shall be added thereto in addition to the penalty stated
in sections of this subchapter.
   (D)   Interest. In addition to the previous penalties imposed, any operator
who fails to remit any tax imposed by this subchapter shall pay interest at the
rate of 0.5% per month, or fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax,
exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the remittance first became
delinquent until paid.
(Ord. 3-98, passed 4-13-1998)
§ 37.042 ACTION TO COLLECT.
   (A)   Any tax required to be paid by a transient guest under the provisions
of this subchapter shall be deemed a debt owed by the transient guest to the
village. Any such tax collected by an operator which has not been paid to the
village shall be deemed a debt owed by the operator to the village. Any person
owing money to the village under the provisions of this subchapter shall be
liable in an action brought in the name of the village for recovery of such
amount of tax together with any interest and penalties thereon.
   (B)   Except in the case of fraud, no assessment shall be made or issued
against an operator or transient guest for any tax imposed by or pursuant to
this subchapter more than five years after the return date for the period in
which the lodging was furnished, or more than four years after the return for
such period is filed, whichever is later.
(Ord. 3-98, passed 4-13-1998)
§ 37.043 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Fail, neglect or refuse to make any return required by this
subchapter;
      (2)   Make any incomplete, false or fraudulent return;
      (3)   Fail, neglect or refuse to pay the tax, penalties or interest
imposed by this subchapter;
      (4)   Fail, neglect or refuse to collect from any transient guest the tax
imposed by this subchapter;
      (5)   Refuse to permit the Tax Administrator or any duly authorized agent
or employee to examine his or her books, records, papers and any income tax
return concerning any transaction or the receipts from any transaction subject
to the tax levied by this subchapter;
      (6)   Fail to appear before the Tax Administrator and to produce books,
records, papers, or any income tax return concerning any transaction, or the
receipts from any transaction, on which a tax is imposed by this subchapter;
      (7)   Refuse to disclose to the Tax Administrator any information with
respect to any transaction, or the receipts from any transaction, upon which
the tax is imposed by this subchapter;
      (8)   Fail to comply with any provisions of this subchapter or any order
or subpoena of the Tax Administrator authorized hereby; or
      (9)   Attempt to do anything whatever to avoid the payment of the whole
or any part of the tax, penalty or interest imposed by this subchapter.
   (B)   All prosecutions under this section shall be commenced within the
period stipulated by R.C. § 718.06.
   (C)   The failure of any operator to receive or procure any return form
shall not excuse him or her from making any return and from filing such return
or from paying the tax imposed by this subchapter.
(Ord. 3-98, passed 4-13-1998) Penalty, see §
37.999
§ 37.044 COLLECTION OF TAX AFTER TERMINATION.
   (A)   This subchapter shall, until repealed, continue in full force and
effect insofar as the levy of taxes is concerned and insofar as the collection
of any tax levied hereunder and any action or proceeding for collecting such
tax or enforcing any of the provisions of this subchapter are concerned. It
shall continue in full force and effect until any tax levied in the aforesaid
period is fully paid and any suit or prosecution for the collection of such tax
or for the punishment of any violation of this subchapter has fully terminated,
subject to the limitations contained in §§
37.042 and
37.043.
   (B)   Returns for the last year, or portion thereof in which this tax is
levied, shall be filed within one month from the last day such levy ends. Any
tax shown due thereon which is not paid and collected under the provisions of §
37.036 shall be paid with such return.
(Ord. 3-98, passed 4-13-1998)
MUNICIPAL INCOME TAX
§ 37.055 AUTHORITY TO LEVY TAX.
   (A)   Authority to levy tax.
      (1)   The tax on income and the withholding tax established by this
subchapter are authorized by Article XVIII, § 3 of the Ohio Constitution. The
tax on income and the withholding tax established by this subchapter are deemed
to be levied in accordance with, and to be consistent with, the provisions and
limitations of R.C. Chapter 718. This subchapter is deemed to incorporate the
provisions of R.C. Chapter 718.
      (2)   The tax is an annual tax levied on the income of every person
residing in or earning or receiving income in the municipal corporation, and
shall be measured by municipal taxable income. The municipality shall tax
income at a uniform rate. The tax is levied on municipal taxable income, as
defined herein.
   (B)   Purposes of tax; rate.
      (1)   A continuing 1% income tax to provide funds for the purpose of
general municipal operations, maintenance, new equipment, extension and
enlargement of municipal services and facilities and capital improvements of
the village there shall be, and is hereby, levied a tax on salaries, wages,
commissions and other compensation, and on net profits as hereinafter provided.
      (2)   An additional 0.25% tax on incomes effective January 1, 2013 for a
period of 15 years to provide funds for village capital improvements for the
village there shall be, and is hereby, levied a tax on salaries, wages,
commissions and other compensation, and on net profits as hereinafter provided.
This shall be an additional tax specifically for the purpose of constructing,
reconstructing, repair, enlargement, acquisition and financing of new and
existing capital improvements for the village for water service and sewer
service. This additional tax may also be used to obtain financing and servicing
debt for new and existing water and sewer infrastructure.
   (C)   Allocation of funds.
      (1)   The base 1% tax shall be allocated to general municipal purposes as
set forth in division (B)(1) above.
      (2)   The additional 0.25% tax is temporary in nature and enacted by and
initiative petition to be a tax on incomes effective January 1, 2013 for a
period of 15 years and shall be allocated to capital for water services and
sewer services as set forth in division (B)(2) above.
   (D)   Statement of procedural history; state mandated changes to municipal
income tax.
      (1)   Significant and wide-ranging amendments to R.C. Chapter 718 were
enacted by Am. Sub. H.B. 5, passed by the 130th General Assembly, and signed by
Governor Kasich on December 19, 2014, and H.B. 5 required municipal
corporations to conform to and adopt the provisions of R.C. Chapter 718 in
order to have the authority to impose, enforce, administer and collect a
municipal income tax.
      (2)   As mandated by H.B. 5, this municipal income tax subchapter,
effective January 1, 2016, comprehensively amends Ord. 18-11 in accordance with
the provisions of R.C. Chapter 718 to allow the municipality to continue the
income tax and withholding tax administration and collection efforts on behalf
of the municipality.
(Ord. 18-15, passed 11-2-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to tax income and withhold tax, see R.C. § 718.04
§ 37.056 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   This, effective January 1, 2016, and corresponding changes to R.C.
Chapter 718, shall apply to municipal taxable years beginning on or after
January 1, 2016. All provisions of this subchapter apply to taxable years
beginning 2016 and succeeding taxable years.
   (B)   This subchapter does not repeal the existing Ord. 18-11 for any
taxable year prior to 2016, but rather amends that ordinance effective January
1, 2016. For municipal taxable years beginning before January 1, 2016, the
municipality shall continue to administer, audit and enforce the income tax of
the municipality under R.C. Chapter 718 and ordinances and resolutions of the
municipality as that chapter and those ordinances and resolutions existed
before January 1,2016.
(Ord. 18-15, passed 11-2-2015)
Editor’s note:
   A copy of Ordinance 18-11, passed 11-28-2011, is available at the Village
Hall.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see R.C. § 718.04
§ 37.057 DEFINITIONS.
   Any term used in this subchapter that is not otherwise defined herein has
the same meaning as when used in a comparable context in laws of the United
States relating to federal income taxation or in R.C. Title LVII, unless a
different meaning is clearly required. If a term used in this subchapter that
is not otherwise defined in this subchapter is used in a comparable context in
both the laws of the United States relating to federal income tax and in R.C.
Title LVII and the use is not consistent, then the use of the term in the laws
of the United States relating to federal income tax shall control over the use
of the term in R.C. Title LVII. For the purpose of this subchapter, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning. The singular shall include the plural, and the
masculine shall include the feminine and gender-neutral.
   ADJUSTED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME. For a person required to file as a C
corporation, or for a person that has elected to be taxed as a C corporation
under division (4) of the definition for net profit below, means a C
corporation’s federal taxable income before net operating losses and special
deductions as determined under the Internal Revenue Code, adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Deduct intangible income to the extent included in federal taxable
income. The deduction shall be allowed regardless of whether the intangible
income relates to assets used in a trade or business or assets held for the
production of income;
      (2)   Add an amount equal to 5% of intangible income deducted under
division (1) above of this definition, but excluding that portion of intangible
income directly related to the sale, exchange or other disposition of property
described in § 1221 of the Internal Revenue Code, being 26 U.S.C. § 1221;
      (3)   Add any losses allowed as a deduction in the computation of federal
taxable income if the losses directly relate to the sale, exchange or other
disposition of an asset described in §§ 1221 or 1231 of the Internal Revenue
Code;
      (4)   (a)   Except as provided in division (4)(b) below, deduct income
and gain included in federal taxable income to the extent the income and gain
directly relate to the sale, exchange, or other disposition of an asset
described in §§ 1221 or 1231 of the Internal Revenue Code; and
         (b)   Division (4)(a) above does not apply to the extent the income or
gain is income or gain described in §§ 1245 or 1250 of the Internal Revenue
Code.
      (5)   Add taxes on or measured by net income allowed as a deduction in
the computation of federal taxable income;
      (6)   In the case of a real estate investment trust or regulated
investment company, add all amounts with respect to dividends to, distributions
to or amounts set aside for or credited to the benefit of investors and allowed
as a deduction in the computation of federal taxable income;
      (7)   Deduct, to the extent not otherwise deducted or excluded in
computing federal taxable income, any income derived from a transfer agreement
or from the enterprise transferred under that agreement under R.C. § 4313.02;
      (8)   (a)   1.   Except as limited by divisions (8)(b), (8)(c) and (8)(d)
below, deduct any net operating loss incurred by the person in a taxable year
beginning on or after January 1, 2017.
            2.   The amount of such net operating loss shall be deducted from
net profit that is reduced by exempt income to the extent necessary to reduce
municipal taxable income to zero, with any remaining unused portion of the net
operating loss carried forward to not more than five consecutive taxable years
following the taxable year in which the loss was incurred, but in no case for
more years than necessary for the deduction to be fully utilized.
         (b)   No person shall use the deduction allowed by this division (8)
to offset qualifying wages.
         (c)   1.   For taxable years beginning in 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021 or
2022, a person may not deduct, for purposes of an income tax levied by a
municipal corporation that levies an income tax before January 1, 2016, more
than 50% of the amount of the deduction otherwise allowed by division (8)(a)
above.
            2.   For taxable years beginning in 2023 or thereafter, a person
may deduct, for purposes of an income tax levied by a municipal corporation
that levies an income tax before January 1, 2016, the full amount allowed by
division (8)(a) above.
         (d)   Any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward deduction that is
available must be utilized before a taxpayer may deduct any amount pursuant to
this division (8).
         (e)   Nothing in division (8)(c)1. above precludes a person from
carrying forward, for use with respect to any return filed for a taxable year
beginning after 2018, any amount of net operating loss that was not fully
utilized by operation of division (8)(c)1. above. To the extent that an amount
of net operating loss that was not fully utilized in one or more taxable years
by operation of division (8)(c)1. above is carried forward for use with respect
to a return filed for a taxable year beginning in 2019, 2020, 2021 or 2022, the
limitation described in division (8)(c)1. above shall apply to the amount
carried forward.
      (9)   Deduct any net profit of a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer’s federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that net profit in
the group’s federal taxable income in accordance with §
37.060(C)(5)(c)2.;
      (10)   Add any loss incurred by a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer’s federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that loss in the
group’s federal taxable income in accordance with §
37.060(C)(5)(c)2. If the taxpayer is not a C corporation, is not a disregarded
entity that has made the election described in division (2) of the definition
for taxpayer below, is not a publicly traded partnership that has made the
election described in division (4) of the definition for net profit below, and
is not an individual, the taxpayer shall compute adjusted federal taxable
income under this section as if the taxpayer were a C corporation, except
guaranteed payments and other similar amounts paid or accrued to a partner,
former partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member or former member shall
not be allowed as a deductible expense unless such payments are in
consideration for the use of capital and treated as payment of interest under §
469 of the Internal Revenue Code or United States treasury regulations. Amounts
paid or accrued to a qualified self-employed retirement plan with respect to a
partner, former partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member or former
member of the taxpayer, amounts paid or accrued to or for health insurance for
a partner, former partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member or former
member, and amounts paid or accrued to or for life insurance for a partner,
former partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member or former member shall
not be allowed as a deduction; and
      (11)   Nothing in this definition shall be construed as allowing the
taxpayer to add or deduct any amount more than once or shall be construed as
allowing any taxpayer to deduct any amount paid to or accrued for purposes of
federal self-employment tax.
   ASSESSMENT.
      (1)   Any of the following:
         (a)   A written finding by the Tax Administrator that a person has
underpaid municipal income tax, or owes penalty and interest, or any
combination of tax, penalty or interest, to the municipal corporation;
         (b)   A full or partial denial of a refund request issued under §
37.063(F)(2)(b);
         (c)   A Tax Administrator’s denial of a taxpayer’s request for use of
an alternative apportionment method, issued under §
37.060(B)(2)(b); or
         (d)   A Tax Administrator’s requirement for a taxpayer to use an
alternative apportionment method, issued under §
37.060(B)(2)(c).
      (2)   For purposes of divisions (1)(a), (1)(b), (1)(c) and (1)(d) above,
an ASSESSMENT shall commence the person’s time limitation for making an appeal
to the Local Board of Tax Review pursuant to §
37.072, and shall have “ASSESSMENT” written in all capital letters at the top
of such finding.
      (3)   ASSESSMENT does not include notice(s) denying a request for refund
issued under §
37.063(F)(2), a billing statement notifying a taxpayer of current or past-due
balances owed to the municipal corporation, a Tax Administrator’s request for
additional information, a notification to the taxpayer of mathematical errors,
or a Tax Administrator’s other written correspondence to a person or taxpayer
that does not meet the criteria prescribed by division (1) above.
   AUDIT. The examination of a person or the inspection of the books, records,
memoranda or accounts of a person, ordered to appear before the Tax
Administrator, for the purpose of determining liability for a municipal income
tax.
   BOARD OF REVIEW. The same meaning as LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW.
   CALENDAR QUARTER. The three-month period ending on the last day of March,
June, September or December.
   CASINO OPERATOR and CASINO FACILITY. The same meanings as in R.C. § 3772.01.
   CERTIFIED MAIL, EXPRESS MAIL, UNITED STATES MAIL, POSTAL SERVICE and SIMILAR
TERMS. Includes any delivery service authorized pursuant to R.C. § 5703.056.
   COMPENSATION. Any form of remuneration paid to an employee for personal
services.
   DISREGARDED ENTITY. A single member limited liability company, a qualifying
subchapter S subsidiary or another entity if the company, subsidiary or entity
is a disregarded entity for federal income tax purposes.
   DOMICILE. The true, fixed and permanent home of the taxpayer to which,
whenever absent, the taxpayer intends to return.
   EXEMPT INCOME. All of the following:
      (1)   The military pay or allowances of members of the armed forces of
the United States or members of their reserve components, including the
National Guard of any state;
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (2)(b) below, intangible
income; and
         (b)   A municipal corporation that taxed any type of intangible income
on March 29, 1988, pursuant to § 3 of S.B. 238 of the 116th General Assembly,
may continue to tax that type of income if a majority of the electors of the
municipal corporation voting on the question of whether to permit the taxation
of that type of intangible income after 1988 voted in favor thereof at an
election held on November 8, 1988.
      (3)   Social Security benefits, railroad retirement benefits,
unemployment compensation, pensions, retirement benefit payments, payments from
annuities and similar payments made to an employee or to the beneficiary of an
employee under a retirement program or plan, disability payments received from
private industry or local, state or federal governments or from charitable,
religious or educational organizations, and the proceeds of sickness, accident
or liability insurance policies. As used in this division (3), UNEMPLOYMENT
COMPENSATION does not include supplemental unemployment compensation described
in § 3402(o)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code;
      (4)   The income of religious, fraternal, charitable, scientific,
literary or educational institutions to the extent such income is derived from
tax-exempt real estate, tax-exempt tangible or intangible property or tax-
exempt activities;
      (5)   Compensation paid under R.C. §§ 3501.28 or 3501.36 to a person
serving as a precinct election official to the extent that such compensation
does not exceed $1,000 for the taxable year. Such compensation in excess of
$1,000 for the taxable year may be subject to taxation by a municipal
corporation. A municipal corporation shall not require the payer of such
compensation to withhold any tax from that compensation;
      (6)   Dues, contributions and similar payments received by charitable,
religious, educational or literary organizations or labor unions, lodges and
similar organizations;
      (7)   Alimony and child support received;
      (8)   Awards for personal injuries or for damages to property from
insurance proceeds or otherwise, excluding compensation paid for lost salaries
or wages or awards for punitive damages;
      (9)   Income of a public utility when that public utility is subject to
the tax levied under R.C. §§ 5727.24 or 5727.30. This division (9) does not
apply for purposes of R.C. Chapter 5745;
      (10)   Gains from involuntary conversions, interest on federal
obligations, items of income subject to a tax levied by the state and that a
municipal corporation is specifically prohibited by law from taxing, and income
of a decedent’s estate during the period of administration except such income
from the operation of a trade or business;
      (11)   Compensation or allowances excluded from federal gross income
under § 107 of the Internal Revenue Code;
      (12)   Employee compensation that is not qualifying wages as defined in
the definition for qualifying wages in this section;
      (13)   Compensation paid to a person employed within the boundaries of a
United States Air Force base under the jurisdiction of the United States Air
Force that is used for the housing of members of the United States Air Force
and is a center for air force operations, unless the person is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile. If the compensation is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile, tax on such income shall be payable
only to the municipal corporation of residence or domicile;
      (14)   All of the municipal taxable income earned by individuals under 18
years of age;
      (15)   (a)   Except as provided in divisions (15)(b), (15)(c) and (15)(d)
below, qualifying wages described in §
37.059(B)(2)(a) or (B)(5)(e) to the extent the qualifying wages are not subject
to withholding for the municipality under either of those divisions;
         (b)   The exemption provided in division (15)(a) above does not apply
with respect to the municipal corporation in which the employee resided at the
time the employee earned the qualifying wages;
         (c)   The exemption provided in division (15)(a) above does not apply
to qualifying wages that an employer elects to withhold under §
37.059(B)(4)(b);
         (d)   The exemption provided in division (15)(a) does not apply to
qualifying wages if both of the following conditions apply:
            1.   For qualifying wages described in §
37.059(B)(2)(a), the employee’s employer withholds and remits tax on the
qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the employee’s principal
place of work is situated, or, for qualifying wages described in §
37.059(B)(5), the employee’s employer withholds and remits tax on the
qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the employer’s fixed
location is located; and
            2.   The employee receives a refund of the tax described in
division (15)(d)1. above on the basis of the employee not performing services
in that municipal corporation.
      (16)   (a)   Except as provided in divisions (16)(b) or (16)(c) below,
compensation that is not qualifying wages paid to a nonresident individual for
personal services performed in the municipality on not more than 20 days in a
taxable year.
         (b)   The exemption provided in division (16)(a) above does not apply
under either of the following circumstances:
            1.   The individual’s base of operation is located in the
municipality; or
            2.   The individual is a professional athlete, professional
entertainer or public figure, and the compensation is paid for the performance
of services in the individual’s capacity as a professional athlete,
professional entertainer or public figure. For purposes of this division (16)
(b)2., PROFESSIONAL ATHLETE, PROFESSIONAL ENTERTAINER and PUBLIC FIGURE have
the same meanings as in §
37.059(B).
         (c)   Compensation to which this division (16) applies shall be
treated as earned or received at the individual’s base of operation. If the
individual does not have a base of operation, the compensation shall be treated
as earned or received where the individual is domiciled.
         (d)   For purposes of this division (16), BASE OF OPERATION means the
location where an individual owns or rents an office, storefront or similar
facility to which the individual regularly reports and at which the individual
regularly performs personal services for compensation.
      (17)   Compensation paid to a person for personal services performed for
a political subdivision on property owned by the political subdivision,
regardless of whether the compensation is received by an employee of the
subdivision or another person performing services for the subdivision under a
contract with the subdivision, if the property on which services are performed
is annexed to a municipal corporation pursuant to R.C. § 709.023 on or after
March 27, 2013, unless the person is subject to such taxation because of
residence. If the compensation is subject to taxation because of residence,
municipal income tax shall be payable only to the municipal corporation of
residence;
      (18)   Income the taxation of which is prohibited by the constitution or
laws of the United States; and
      (19)   Any item of income that is exempt income of a pass-through entity
under this definition is EXEMPT INCOME of each owner of the pass-through entity
to the extent of that owner’s distributive or proportionate share of that item
of the entity’s income.
   FORM 2106. Internal Revenue Service Form 2106 filed by a taxpayer pursuant
to the Internal Revenue Code.
   GENERIC FORM. An electronic or paper form that is not prescribed by a
particular municipal corporation and that is designed for reporting taxes
withheld by an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer, estimated
municipal income taxes or annual municipal income tax liability, including a
request for refund.
   INCOME. The following:
      (1)   (a)   For residents, all income, salaries, qualifying wages,
commissions and other compensation from whatever source earned or received by
the resident, including the resident’s distributive share of the net profit of
pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by the resident and any net
profit of the resident, except as provided in division (4) in the definition of
net profit below.
         (b)   For the purposes of division (1)(a) above:
            1.   Any net operating loss of the resident incurred in the taxable
year and the resident’s distributive share of any net operating loss generated
in the same taxable year and attributable to the resident’s ownership interest
in a pass-through entity shall be allowed as a deduction, for that taxable year
and the following five taxable years, against any other net profit of the
resident or the resident’s distributive share of any net profit attributable to
the resident’s ownership interest in a pass-through entity until fully
utilized, subject to division (1)(d) below; and
            2.   The resident’s distributive share of the net profit of each
pass-through entity owned directly or indirectly by the resident shall be
calculated without regard to any net operating loss that is carried forward by
that entity from a prior taxable year and applied to reduce the entity’s net
profit for the current taxable year.
         (c)   Division (1)(b) above does not apply with respect to any net
profit or net operating loss attributable to an ownership interest in an S
corporation unless shareholders’ distributive shares of net profits from S
corporations are subject to tax in the municipal corporation.
         (d)   Any amount of a net operating loss used to reduce a taxpayer’s
net profit for a taxable year shall reduce the amount of net operating loss
that may be carried forward to any subsequent year for use by that taxpayer. In
no event shall the cumulative deductions for all taxable years with respect to
a taxpayer’s net operating loss exceed the original amount of that net
operating loss available to that taxpayer.
      (2)   In the case of nonresidents, all income, salaries, qualifying
wages, commissions and other compensation from whatever source earned or
received by the nonresident for work done, services performed or rendered, or
activities conducted in the municipality, including any net profit of the
nonresident, but excluding the nonresident’s distributive share of the net
profit or loss of only pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by
the nonresident;
      (3)   For taxpayers that are not individuals, net profit of the taxpayer;
and
      (4)   Lottery, sweepstakes, gambling and sports winnings, winnings from
games of chance, and prizes and awards. If the taxpayer is a professional
gambler for federal income tax purposes, the taxpayer may deduct related
wagering losses and expenses to the extent authorized under the Internal
Revenue Code and claimed against such winnings. Credit for tax withheld or paid
to another municipal corporation on such winnings paid to the municipal
corporation where winnings occur is limited to the credit as specified in §
37.062(A).
   INTANGIBLE INCOME. Income of any of the following types: income yield;
interest; capital gains; dividends; or other income arising from the ownership,
sale, exchange or other disposition of intangible property including, but not
limited to, investments, deposits, money or credits as those terms are defined
in R.C. Chapter 5701, and patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade names,
investments in real estate investment trusts, investments in regulated
investment companies and appreciation on deferred compensation. INTANGIBLE
INCOME does not include prizes, awards or other income associated with any
lottery winnings, gambling winnings or other similar games of chance.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 100 Sta. 2085, 26
U.S.C. § 1, as amended.
   LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY. A limited liability company formed under R.C.
Chapter 1705 or under the laws of another state.
   LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW and BOARD OF TAX REVIEW. The entity created under
§
37.072.
   MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. In general terms, a status conferred upon a local
government unit, by state law giving the unit certain autonomous operating
authority such as the power of taxation, power of eminent domain, police power
and regulatory power, and includes a joint economic development district or
joint economic development zone that levies an income tax under R.C. §§
715.691, 715.70 or 715.71.
   MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME.
      (1)   The following:
         (a)   For a person other than an individual, income reduced by exempt
income to the extent otherwise included in income and then, as applicable,
apportioned or sitused to the municipality under §
37.060(B), and further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward
available to the person for the municipality;
         (b)   1.   For an individual who is a resident of a municipality other
than a qualified municipal corporation, income reduced by exempt income to the
extent otherwise included in income, then reduced as provided in division (2)
below, and further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward
available to the individual for the municipality; and
            2.   For an individual who is a resident of a qualified municipal
corporation, state adjusted gross income reduced by income exempted, and
increased by deductions excluded, by the qualified municipal corporation from
the qualified municipal corporation’s tax on or before December 31, 2013. If a
qualified municipal corporation, on or before December 31, 2013, exempts income
earned by individuals who are not residents of the qualified municipal
corporation and net profit of persons that are not wholly located within the
qualified municipal corporation, such individual or person shall have no
MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME for the purposes of the tax levied by the qualified
municipal corporation and may be exempted by the qualified municipal
corporation from the requirements of R.C. § 718.03.
         (c)   For an individual who is a nonresident of the municipality,
income reduced by exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income and
then, as applicable, apportioned or sitused to the municipality under §
37.060(B), then reduced as provided in division (2) below, and further reduced
by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward available to the individual for
the municipality.
      (2)   In computing the municipal taxable income of a taxpayer who is an
individual, the taxpayer may subtract, as provided in divisions (1)(b)1. or (1)
(b)2. above, the amount of the individual’s employee business expenses reported
on the individual’s Form 2106 that the individual deducted for federal income
tax purposes for the taxable year, subject to the limitation imposed by § 67 of
the Internal Revenue Code. For the municipal corporation in which the taxpayer
is a resident, the taxpayer may deduct all such expenses allowed for federal
income tax purposes. For a municipal corporation in which the taxpayer is not a
resident, the taxpayer may deduct such expenses only to the extent the expenses
are related to the taxpayer’s performance of personal services in that
nonresident municipal corporation.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Village of Bluffton, Ohio.
   NET OPERATING LOSS. A loss incurred by a person in the operation of a trade
or business. NET OPERATING LOSS does not include unutilized losses resulting
from basis limitations, at-risk limitations or passive activity loss
limitations.
   NET PROFIT.
      (1)   For a person other than an individual, means adjusted federal
taxable income.
      (2)   For a person who is an individual, means the individual’s NET
PROFIT required to be reported on Schedule C, Schedule E or Schedule F reduced
by any net operating loss carried forward. For the purposes of division (1)
above, the net operating loss carried forward shall be calculated and deducted
in the same manner as provided in division (8) of the definition of adjusted
federal income tax above.
      (3)   For the purposes of this subchapter, and notwithstanding division
(1) above, NET PROFIT of a disregarded entity shall not be taxable as against
that disregarded entity, but shall instead be included in the NET PROFIT of the
owner of the disregarded entity.
      (4)   (a)   For purposes of this subchapter, PUBLICLY TRADED PARTNERSHIP
means any partnership, an interest in which is regularly traded on an
established securities market. A publicly traded partnership may have any
number of partners.
         (b)   For the purposes of this subchapter, and not withstanding any
other provision of this subchapter, the NET PROFIT of a publicly traded
partnership that makes the election described in this division (4) shall be
taxed as if the partnership were a C corporation, and shall not be treated as
the NET PROFIT or income of any owner of the partnership.
         (c)   A publicly traded partnership that is treated as a partnership
for federal income tax purposes and that is subject to tax on its NET PROFITS
in one or more municipal corporations in this state may elect to be treated as
a C corporation for municipal income tax purposes. The publicly traded
partnership shall make the election in every municipal corporation in which the
partnership is subject to taxation on its NET PROFITS. The election shall be
made on the annual tax return filed in each such municipal corporation. Once
the election is made, the election is binding for a five-year period beginning
with the first taxable year of the initial election. The election continues to
be binding for each subsequent five-year period unless the taxpayer elects to
discontinue filing municipal income tax returns as a C corporation for
municipal purposes under division (4)(d) below.
         (d)   An election to discontinue filing as a C corporation must be
made in the first year following the last year of a five-year election period
in effect under division (4)(c) above. The election to discontinue filing as a
C corporation is binding for a five-year period beginning with the first
taxable year of the election and continues to be binding for each subsequent
five-year period unless the taxpayer elects to discontinue filing municipal
income tax returns as a partnership for municipal purposes. An election to
discontinue filing as a partnership must be made in the first year following
the last year of a five-year election period.
         (e)   The publicly traded partnership shall not be required to file
the election with any municipal corporation in which the partnership is not
subject to taxation on its net profits, but this division (4) of this
definition applies to all municipal corporations in which an individual owner
of the partnership resides.
         (f)   The individual owners of the partnership not filing as a C
Corporation shall be required to file with their municipal corporation of
residence, and report partnership distribution of net profit.
   NONRESIDENT. An individual that is not a resident of the municipality.
   OHIO BUSINESS GATEWAY. The online computer network system, created under
R.C. § 125.30, that allows persons to electronically file business reply forms
with state agencies and includes any successor electronic filing and payment
system.
   OTHER PAYER. Any person, other than an individual’s employer or the
employer’s agent that pays an individual any amount included in the federal
gross income of the individual. OTHER PAYER includes casino operators and video
lottery terminal sales agents.
   PASS-THROUGH ENTITY. A partnership not treated as an association taxable as
a C corporation for federal income tax purposes, a limited liability company
not treated as an association taxable as a C corporation for federal income tax
purposes, an S corporation or any other class of entity from which the income
or profits of the entity are given pass-through treatment for federal income
tax purposes. PASS-THROUGH ENTITY does not include a trust, estate, grantor of
a grantor trust or disregarded entity.
   PENSION. Any amount paid to an employee or former employee that is reported
to the recipient on an IRS Form 1099-R, or successor form. PENSION does not
include deferred compensation, or amounts attributable to nonqualified deferred
compensation plans, reported as FICA/Medicare wages on an IRS Form W-2, Wage
and Tax Statement, or successor form.
   PERSON. Includes individuals, firms, companies, joint stock companies,
business trusts, estates, trusts, partnerships, limited liability partnerships,
limited liability companies, associations, C corporations, S corporations,
governmental entities and any other entity.
   POSTAL SERVICE. The United States Postal Service, or private delivery
service delivering documents and packages within an agreed upon delivery
schedule, or any other carrier service delivering the item.
   POSTMARK DATE, DATE OF POSTMARK and SIMILAR TERMS. Includes the date
recorded and marked by a delivery service and recorded electronically to a
database kept in the regular course if its business and marked on the cover in
which the payment or document is enclosed, the date on which the payment or
document was given to the delivery service for delivery.
   PRE-2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD.
      (1)   Any net operating loss incurred in a taxable year beginning before
January 1, 2017, to the extent such loss was permitted, by a resolution or
ordinance of the municipality that was adopted by the municipality before
January 1, 2016, to be carried forward and utilized to offset income or net
profit generated in such municipality in future taxable years.
      (2)   For the purpose of calculating municipal taxable income, any PRE-
2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD may be carried forward to any taxable
year, including taxable years beginning in 2017 or thereafter, for the number
of taxable years provided in the resolution or ordinance or until fully
utilized, whichever is earlier.
   QUALIFIED MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. A municipal corporation that, by resolution
or ordinance adopted on or before December 31, 2011, adopted state adjusted
gross income, as defined by R.C. § 5747.01, as the income subject to tax for
the purposes of imposing a municipal income tax.
   QUALIFYING WAGES. Wages, as defined in § 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue
Code, without regard to any wage limitations, adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Deduct the following amounts:
         (a)   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes
compensation attributable to a plan or program described in § 125 of the
Internal Revenue Code;
         (b)   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes payment
on account of a disability related to sickness or an accident paid by a party
unrelated to the employer, agent of an employer or other payer; and
         (c)   Any amount included in wages that is exempt income.
      (2)   Add the following amounts:
         (a)   Any amount not included in wages solely because the employee was
employed by the employer before April 1, 1986;
         (b)   Any amount not included in wages because the amount arises from
the sale, exchange or other disposition of a stock option, the exercise of a
stock option, or the sale, exchange or other disposition of stock purchased
under a stock option. This division (2)(b) applies only to those amounts
constituting ordinary income;
         (c)   Any amount not included in wages if the amount is an amount
described in §§ 401(k), 403(b) or 457 of the Internal Revenue Code. This
division (2)(c) applies only to employee contributions and employee deferrals;
         (d)   Any amount that is supplemental unemployment compensation
benefits described in § 3402(o)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code and not
included in wages;
         (e)   Any amount received that is treated as self-employment income
for federal tax purposes in accordance with § 1402(a)(8) of the Internal
Revenue Code; and
         (f)   Any amount not included in wages if all of the following apply:
            1.   For the taxable year the amount is employee compensation that
is earned outside of the United States and that either is included in the
taxpayer’s gross income for federal income tax purposes or would have been
included in the taxpayer’s gross income for such purposes if the taxpayer did
not elect to exclude the income under § 911 of the Internal Revenue Code;
            2.   For no preceding taxable year did the amount constitute wages
as defined in § 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue Code;
            3.   For no succeeding taxable year will the amount constitute
wages; and
            4.    For any taxable year the amount has not otherwise been added
to wages pursuant to either this division (2) or R.C. § 718.03, as that section
existed before the effective date of H.B. 5 of the 130th General Assembly,
March 23, 2015.
   RELATED ENTITY. Any of the following:
      (1)   An individual stockholder, or a member of the stockholder’s family
enumerated in § 318 of the Internal Revenue Code, if the stockholder and the
members of the stockholder’s family own directly, indirectly, beneficially or
constructively, in the aggregate, at least 50% of the value of the taxpayer’s
outstanding stock;
      (2)   A stockholder, or a stockholder’s partnership, estate, trust or
corporation, if the stockholder and the stockholder’s partnerships, estates,
trusts or corporations own directly, indirectly, beneficially or
constructively, in the aggregate, at least 50% of the value of the taxpayer’s
outstanding stock;
      (3)   A corporation, or a party related to the corporation in a manner
that would require an attribution of stock from the corporation to the party or
from the party to the corporation under division (4) below, provided the
taxpayer owns directly, indirectly, beneficially or constructively, at least
50% of the value of the corporation’s outstanding stock; and
      (4)   The attribution rules described in § 318 of the Internal Revenue
Code apply for the purpose of determining whether the ownership requirements in
divisions (1) to (3) above have been met.
   RELATED MEMBER. A person that, with respect to the taxpayer during all or
any portion of the taxable year, is either a related entity, a component member
as defined in § 1563(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, or a person to or from
whom there is attribution of stock ownership in accordance with § 1563(e) of
the Internal Revenue Code except, for purposes of determining whether a person
is a related member under this definition, “20%” shall be substituted for “5%”
wherever “5%” appears in § 1563(e) of the Internal Revenue Code.
   RESIDENT. An individual who is domiciled in the municipality as determined
under §
37.058(B).
   S CORPORATION. A person that has made an election under subchapter S of
Chapter 1 of Subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code for its taxable year.
   SCHEDULE C. Internal Revenue Service Schedule C (Form 1040) filed by a
taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
   SCHEDULE E. Internal Revenue Service Schedule E (Form 1040) filed by a
taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
   SCHEDULE F. Internal Revenue Service Schedule F (Form 1040) filed by a
taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
   SINGLE MEMBER LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY. A limited liability company that
has one direct member.
   SMALL EMPLOYER. Any employer that had total revenue of less than $500,000
during the preceding taxable year. For purposes of this definition, TOTAL
REVENUE means receipts of any type or kind, including, but not limited to:
sales receipts; payments; rents; profits; gains, dividends and other investment
income; commissions; premiums; money; property; grants; contributions;
donations; gifts; program service revenue; patient service revenue; premiums;
fees, including premium fees and service fees; tuition payments; unrelated
business revenue; reimbursements; any type of payment from a governmental unit,
including grants and other allocations; and any other similar receipts reported
for federal income tax purposes or under generally accepted accounting
principles. SMALL EMPLOYER does not include: the federal government; any state
government, including any state agency or instrumentality; any political
subdivision; or any entity treated as a government for financial accounting and
reporting purposes.
   TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The individual charged with direct responsibility for
administration of an income tax levied by a municipal corporation in accordance
with this subchapter, and also includes the following:
      (1)   A municipal corporation acting as the agent of another municipal
corporation;
      (2)   A person retained by a municipal corporation to administer a tax
levied by the municipal corporation, but only if the municipal corporation does
not compensate the person in whole or in part on a contingency basis; and
      (3)   The Central Collection Agency (CCA) or the Regional Income Tax
Agency (RITA) or their successors in interest, or another entity organized to
perform functions similar to those performed by the Central Collection Agency
and the Regional Income Tax Agency.
   TAX RETURN PREPARER. Any individual described in § 7701(a)(36) of the
Internal Revenue Code and 26 C.F.R. § 301.7701-15.
   TAXABLE YEAR. The corresponding tax reporting period as prescribed for the
taxpayer under the Internal Revenue Code.
   TAXPAYER.
      (1)   A person subject to a tax levied on income by a municipal
corporation in accordance with this subchapter. TAXPAYER does not include a
grantor trust or, except as provided in division (2)(a) below, a disregarded
entity.
      (2)   (a)   A single member limited liability company that is a
disregarded entity for federal tax purposes may be a separate taxpayer from its
single member in all state municipal corporations in which it either filed as a
separate taxpayer or did not file for its taxable year ending in 2003, if all
of the following conditions are met:
            1.   The limited liability company’s single member is also a
limited liability company;
            2.   The limited liability company and its single member were
formed and doing business in one or more state municipal corporations for at
least five years before January 1, 2004;
            3.   Not later than December 31, 2004, the limited liability
company and its single member each made an election to be treated as a separate
taxpayer under R.C. § 718.01(L) as this section existed on December 31, 2004;
            4.   The limited liability company was not formed for the purpose
of evading or reducing state municipal corporation income tax liability of the
limited liability company or its single member; and
            5.   The state municipal corporation that was the primary place of
business of the sole member of the limited liability company consented to the
election;
         (b)   For purposes of division (2)(a)5. above, a municipal corporation
was the primary place of business of a limited liability company if, for the
limited liability company’s taxable year ending in 2003, its income tax
liability was greater in that municipal corporation than in any other municipal
corporation in Ohio, and that tax liability to that municipal corporation for
its taxable year ending in 2003 was at least $400,000.
   TAXPAYERS’ RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES. The rights provided to taxpayers in
R.C. §§ 718.11, 718.12, 718.19, 718.23, 718.36, 718.37, 718.38, 5717.011 and
5717.03 and any corresponding ordinances of the municipality, and the
responsibilities of taxpayers to file, report, withhold, remit and pay
municipal income tax and otherwise comply with R.C. Chapter 718 and
resolutions, ordinances and rules adopted by a municipal corporation for the
imposition and administration of a municipal income tax.
   VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINAL. The same meaning as in R.C. § 3770.21.
   VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINAL SALES AGENT. A lottery sales agent licensed under
R.C. Chapter 3770 to conduct video lottery terminals on behalf of the state
pursuant to R.C. § 3770.21.
(Ord. 18-15, passed 11-2-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related definitions, see R.C. § 718.01
§ 37.058 INCOME SUBJECT TO TAX FOR INDIVIDUALS.
   (A)   Determining municipal taxable income for individuals.
      (1)   Municipal taxable income for a resident of the municipality is
calculated as follows: “income” reduced by “exempt income” to the extent such
exempt income is otherwise included in income, reduced by allowable employee
business expense deduction as found in division (2) of the definition for
municipal taxable income, further reduced by any “pre-2017 net operating loss
carryforward” equals “municipal taxable income”.
         (a)   “Income” is defined in §
37.057.
            1.   “Qualifying wages” is defined in §
37.057.
            2.   “Net profit” is included in “income”, and is defined in §
37.057. This section also provides that the net operating loss carryforward
shall be calculated and deducted in the same manner as provided in division (8)
of the definition for adjusted federal income tax in §
37.057. Treatment of net profits received by an individual taxpayer from rental
real estate is provided in §
37.060(B)(5).
            3.   The definition for “income” in §
37.057 provides the following: offsetting and net operating loss carryforward
treatment in division (1)(b)1. of the definition; resident’s distributive share
of net profit from pass through entity treatment in division (1)(b)2. of that
definition; treatment of S Corporation distributive share of net profit in the
hands of the shareholder in division (1)(c) of that definition; restriction of
amount of loss permitted to be carried forward for use by taxpayer in a
subsequent taxable year in division (1)(d) of that definition.
            4.   “Pass through entity” is defined in §
37.057.
         (b)   “Exempt income” is defined in §
37.057.
         (c)   Allowable employee business expense deduction is described in
division (2) of the definition for municipal taxable income in §
37.057, and is subject to the limitations provided in that section.
         (d)   “Pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward” is defined in §
37.057.
      (2)   “Municipal taxable income” for a nonresident of the municipality is
calculated as follows: “income” reduced by “exempt income” to the extent such
exempt income is otherwise included in income, as applicable, apportioned or
sitused to the municipality as provided in §
37.060(B), reduced by allowable employee business expense deduction as found in
division (2) of the definition for municipal taxable income in §
37.057, further reduced by any “pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward”
equals “municipal taxable income”.
         (a)   “Income” is defined in §
37.057.
            1.   “Qualifying wages” is defined in §
37.057.
            2.   “Net profit” is included in “income”, and is defined in §
37.057. This section also provides that the net operating loss carryforward
shall be calculated and deducted in the same manner as provided in division (8)
of the definition for adjusted federal income tax in §
37.057. “Net profit” for a nonresident individual includes any net profit of
the nonresident, but excludes the distributive share of net profit or loss of
only pass through entity owned directly or indirectly by the nonresident.
            3.   “Pass through entity” is defined in §
37.057.
         (b)   “Exempt income” is defined in §
37.057.
         (c)   Apportioned or sitused to the municipality as provided in §
37.060(B) includes the apportionment of net profit income attributable to work
done or services performed in the municipality. Treatment of net profits
received by an individual taxpayer from rental real estate is provided in §
37.060(B)(5).
         (d)   “Allowable employee business expense deduction”, as described in
division (2) of the definition for municipal taxable income in §
37.057, is subject to the limitations provided in that section. For a
nonresident of the municipality, the deduction is limited to the extent the
expenses are related to the performance of personal services by the nonresident
in the municipality.
         (e)   “Pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward” is defined in §
37.057.
   (B)   Domicile.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         (a)   DOMICILE means the true, fixed and permanent home of the
taxpayer to which whenever absent, the taxpayer intends to return;
         (b)   An individual is presumed to be domiciled in the municipality
for all or part of a taxable year if the individual was domiciled in the
municipality on the last day of the immediately preceding taxable year or if
the Tax Administrator reasonably concludes that the individual is domiciled in
the municipality for all or part of the taxable year; and
         (c)   An individual may rebut the presumption of domicile described in
division (B)(1)(a) above if the individual establishes by a preponderance of
the evidence that the individual was not domiciled in the municipality for all
or part of the taxable year.
      (2)   For the purpose of determining whether an individual is domiciled
in the municipality for all or part of a taxable year, factors that may be
considered include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   The individual’s domicile in other taxable years;
         (b)   The location at which the individual is registered to vote;
         (c)   The address on the individual’s driver’s license;
         (d)   The location of real estate for which the individual claimed a
property tax exemption or reduction allowed on the basis of the individual’s
residence or domicile;
         (e)   The location and value of abodes owned or leased by the
individual;
         (f)   Declarations, written or oral, made by the individual regarding
the individual’s residency;
         (g)   The primary location at which the individual is employed;
         (h)   The location of educational institutions attended by the
individual’s dependents as defined in § 152 of the Internal Revenue Code, being
26 U.S.C. § 152, to the extent that tuition paid to such educational
institution is based on the residency of the individual or the individual’s
spouse in the municipal corporation or state where the educational institution
is located; and
         (i)   The number of contact periods the individual has with the
municipality. For the purposes of this division (B)(2)(i), an individual has
one “contact period” with the municipality if the individual is away overnight
from the individual’s abode located outside of the municipality and while away
overnight from that abode spends at least some portion, however minimal, of
each of two consecutive days in the municipality. For purposes of this section,
the state’s contact period test or bright-line test and resulting determination
have no bearing on municipal residency or domicile.
      (3)   All applicable factors are provided in R.C. § 718.012.
   (C)   Exemption for member or employee of general assembly and certain
judges.
      (1)   Only the municipal corporation of residence shall be permitted to
levy a tax on the income of any member or employee of the Ohio General
Assembly, including the Lieutenant Governor, whose income is received as a
result of services rendered as such member or employee and is paid from
appropriated funds of this state.
      (2)   Only the municipal corporation of residence and the City of
Columbus shall levy a tax on the income of the Chief Justice or a Justice of
the Supreme Court received as a result of services rendered as the Chief
Justice or Justice. Only the municipal corporation of residence shall levy a
tax on the income of a judge sitting by assignment of the Chief Justice or on
the income of a district court of appeals judge sitting in multiple locations
within the district, received as a result of services rendered as a judge.
(Ord. 18-15, passed 11-2-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Domicile, see R.C. § 718.012
   Exclusion of General Assembly employee or member and certain judges from
tax, see R.C. § 718.50
§ 37.059 COLLECTION AT SOURCE.
   (A)   Collection at source; withholding from qualifying wages.
      (1)   (a)   Each employer, agent of an employer or other payer located or
doing business in the municipality shall withhold from each employee an amount
equal to the qualifying wages of the employee earned by the employee in the
municipality multiplied by the applicable rate of the municipality’s income
tax, except for qualifying wages for which withholding is not required under
division (B) below or divisions (A)(4) or (A)(6) below. An employer, agent of
an employer or other payer shall deduct and withhold the tax from qualifying
wages on the date that the employer, agent or other payer directly, indirectly,
or constructively pays the qualifying wages to, or credits the qualifying wages
to the benefit of, the employee.
         (b)   In addition to withholding the amounts required under division
(A)(1)(a) above, an employer, agent of an employer or other payer may also
deduct and withhold, on the request of an employee, taxes for the municipal
corporation in which the employee is a resident.
      (2)   An employer, agent of an employer or other payer shall remit to the
Tax Administrator of the municipality the greater of the income taxes deducted
and withheld or the income taxes required to be deducted and withheld by the
employer, agent or other payer, along with any report required by the Tax
Administrator to accompany such payment, according to the following schedule:
         (a)   Any employer, agent of an employer or other payer not required
to make payments under division (A)(2)(b) of taxes required to be deducted and
withheld shall make quarterly payments to the Tax Administrator not later than
the fifteenth day of the month following the end of each calendar quarter.
         (b)   Taxes required to be deducted and withheld shall be remitted
monthly to the Tax Administrator if the total taxes deducted and withheld or
required to be deducted and withheld by the employer, agent or other payer on
behalf of the municipal corporation in the preceding calendar year exceeded
$2,399, or if the total amount of taxes deducted and withheld or required to be
deducted and withheld on behalf of the municipality in any month of the
preceding calendar quarter exceeded $200. Payment under this division (A)(2)(b)
shall be made so that the payment is received by the Tax Administrator not
later than 15 days after the last day of each month.
      (3)   An employer, agent of an employer or other payer shall make and
file a return showing the amount of tax withheld by the employer, agent or
other payer from the qualifying wages of each employee and remitted to the Tax
Administrator. A return filed by an employer, agent or other payer under this
division (A)(3) shall be accepted by the municipality as the return required of
an employee whose sole income subject to the tax under this subchapter is the
qualifying wages reported by the employee’s employer, agent of an employer or
other payer, unless the municipality requires all resident individual taxpayers
to file a tax return under §
37.063(A).
      (4)   An employer, agent of an employer or other payer is not required to
withhold municipal income tax with respect to an individual’s disqualifying
disposition of an incentive stock option if, at the time of the disqualifying
disposition, the individual is not an employee of either the corporation with
respect to whose stock the option has been issued or of such corporation’s
successor entity.
      (5)   (a)   An employee is not relieved from liability for a tax by the
failure of the employer, agent of an employer or other payer to withhold the
tax as required under this subchapter or by the employer’s, agent’s or other
payer’s exemption from the requirement to withhold the tax.
         (b)   The failure of an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer
to remit to the municipality the tax withheld relieves the employee from
liability for that tax unless the employee colluded with the employer, agent or
other payer in connection with the failure to remit the tax withheld.
      (6)   Compensation deferred before June 26, 2003, is not subject to any
municipal corporation income tax or municipal income tax withholding
requirement to the extent the deferred compensation does not constitute
qualifying wages at the time the deferred compensation is paid or distributed.
      (7)   Each employer, agent of an employer or other payer required to
withhold taxes is liable for the payment of that amount required to be
withheld, whether or not such taxes have been withheld, and such amount shall
be deemed to be held in trust for the municipality until such time as the
withheld amount is remitted to the Tax Administrator.
      (8)   On or before the last day of February of each year, an employer
shall file a withholding reconciliation return with the Tax Administrator
listing the names, addresses and Social Security numbers of all employees from
whose qualifying wages tax was withheld or should have been withheld for the
municipality during the preceding calendar year, the amount of tax withheld, if
any, from each such employee’s qualifying wage, the total amount of qualifying
wages paid to such employee during the preceding calendar year, the name of
every other municipal corporation for which tax was withheld or should have
been withheld from such employee during the preceding calendar year, any other
information required for federal income tax reporting purposes on Internal
Revenue Service Form W-2 or its equivalent form with respect to such employee,
and other information as may be required by the Tax Administrator.
      (9)   The officer or the employee of the employer, agent of an employer
or other payer with control or direct supervision of or charged with the
responsibility for withholding the tax or filing the reports and making
payments as required by this section, shall be personally liable for a failure
to file a report or pay the tax due as required by this section. The
dissolution of an employer, agent of an employer or other payer does not
discharge the officer’s or employee’s liability for a failure of the employer,
agent of an employer or other payer to file returns or pay any tax due.
      (10)   An employer is required to deduct and withhold municipal income
tax on tips and gratuities received by the employer’s employees and
constituting qualifying wages only to the extent that the tips and gratuities
are under the employer’s control. For the purposes of this division (A)(10), a
tip or gratuity is under the employer’s control if the tip or gratuity is paid
by the customer to the employer for subsequent remittance to the employee, or
if the customer pays the tip or gratuity by credit card, debit card or other
electronic means.
      (11)   A Tax Administrator shall consider any tax withheld by an employer
at the request of an employee when such tax is not otherwise required to be
withheld by this subchapter to be tax required to be withheld and remitted for
the purposes of this section.
   (B)   Collection at source; occasional entrant.
      (1)   For the purpose of this division (B), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         EMPLOYER. Includes a person that is a related member to or of an
employer.
         FIXED LOCATION. A permanent place of doing business in this state,
such as an office, warehouse, storefront or similar location owned or
controlled by an employer.
         PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK.
            1.   The fixed location to which an employee is required to report
for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis. If the employee is not
required to report for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis to a
fixed location, PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means the worksite location in this
state to which the employee is required to report for employment duties on a
regular and ordinary basis. If the employee is not required to report for
employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis to a fixed location or
worksite location, PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means the location in this state at
which the employee spends the greatest number of days in a calendar year
performing services for or on behalf of the employee’s employer.
            2.   If there is not a single municipal corporation in which the
employee spent the “greatest number of days in a calendar year” performing
services for or on behalf of the employer, but instead there are two or more
municipal corporations in which the employee spent an identical number of days
that is greater than the number of days the employee spent in any other
municipal corporation, the employer shall allocate any of the employee’s
qualifying wages subject to division (B)(2)(a)1. below among those two or more
municipal corporations. The allocation shall be made using any fair and
reasonable method, including, but not limited to, an equal allocation among
such municipal corporations or an allocation based upon the time spent or sales
made by the employee in each such municipal corporation. A municipal
corporation to which qualifying wages are allocated under this definition shall
be the employee’s PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK with respect to those qualifying
wages for the purposes of this section.
            3.   For the purposes of this definition, the location at which an
employee spends a particular day shall be deemed in accordance with division
(B)(2)(b) below, except that “location” shall be substituted for “municipal
corporation” wherever “municipal corporation” appears in that division (B)(2)
(b).
         PROFESSIONAL ATHLETE. An athlete who performs services in a
professional athletic event for wages or other remuneration.
         PROFESSIONAL ENTERTAINER. A person who performs services in the
professional performing arts for wages or other remuneration on a per-event
basis.
         PUBLIC FIGURE. A person of prominence who performs services at
discrete events, such as speeches, public appearances or similar events, for
wages or other remuneration on a per-event basis.
         WORKSITE LOCATION. A construction site or other temporary worksite in
this state at which the employer provides services for more than 20 days during
the calendar year. WORKSITE LOCATION does not include the home of an employee.
      (2)   (a)   Subject to divisions (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6) and (B)(7) below,
an employer is not required to withhold municipal income tax on qualifying
wages paid to an employee for the performance of personal services in a
municipal corporation that imposes such a tax if the employee performed such
services in the municipal corporation on 20 or fewer days in a calendar year,
unless one of the following conditions applies:
            1.   The employee’s principal place of work is located in the
municipality;
            2.   The employee performed services at one or more presumed
worksite locations in the municipality. For the purposes of this division (B)
(2)(a)2., PRESUMED WORKSITE LOCATION means a construction site or other
temporary worksite in this state at which the employer provides services that
can reasonably be expected by the employer to last more than 20 days in a
calendar year. Services can “reasonably be expected by the employer to last
more than 20 days” if either of the following applies at the time the services
commence:
               a.   The nature of the services are such that it will require
more than 20 days of actual services to complete the services; or
               b.   The agreement between the employer and its customer to
perform services at a location requires the employer to perform actual services
at the location for more than 20 days.
            3.   The employee is a resident of the municipality and has
requested that the employer withhold tax from the employee’s qualifying wages
as provided in division (A) above; and
            4.   The employee is a professional athlete, professional
entertainer or public figure, and the qualifying wages are paid for the
performance of services in the employee’s capacity as a professional athlete,
professional entertainer or public figure within the municipality.
         (b)   For the purposes of division (B)(2)(a) above, an employee shall
be considered to have spent a day performing services in a municipal
corporation only if the employee spent more time performing services for or on
behalf of the employer in that municipal corporation than in any other
municipal corporation on that day. For the purposes of determining the amount
of time an employee spent in a particular location, the time spent performing
one or more of the following activities shall be considered to have been spent
at the employee’s principal place of work:
            1.   Traveling to the location at which the employee will first
perform services for the employer for the day;
            2.   Traveling from a location at which the employee was performing
services for the employer to any other location;
            3.   Traveling from any location to another location in order to
pick up or load, for the purpose of transportation or delivery, property that
has been purchased, sold, assembled, fabricated, repaired, refurbished,
processed, remanufactured or improved by the employee’s employer;
            4.   Transporting or delivering property described in division (B)
(2)(b)3. above, provided that, upon delivery of the property, the employee does
not temporarily or permanently affix the property to real estate owned, used or
controlled by a person other than the employee’s employer; and
            5.   Traveling from the location at which the employee makes the
employee’s final delivery or pick-up for the day to either the employee’s
principal place of work or a location at which the employee will not perform
services for the employer.
      (3)   If the principal place of work of an employee is located in a
municipal corporation that imposes an income tax in accordance with this
subchapter, the exception from withholding requirements described in division
(B)(2)(a) above shall apply only if, with respect to the employee’s qualifying
wages described in that division (B)(2)(a) above, the employer withholds and
remits tax on such qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the
employee’s principal place of work is located.
      (4)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(4)(b) below, if, during a
calendar year, the number of days an employee spends performing personal
services in a municipal corporation exceeds the 20-day threshold described in
division (B)(2)(a) above, the employer shall withhold and remit tax to that
municipal corporation for any subsequent days in that calendar year on which
the employer pays qualifying wages to the employee for personal services
performed in that municipal corporation.
         (b)   An employer required to begin withholding tax for a municipal
corporation under division (B)(4)(a) above may elect to withhold tax for that
municipal corporation for the first 20 days on which the employer paid
qualifying wages to the employee for personal services performed in that
municipal corporation.
         (c)   If an employer makes the election described in division (B)(4)
(b) above, the taxes withheld and paid by such an employer during those first
20 days to the municipal corporation in which the employee’s principal place of
work is located are refundable to the employee.
      (5)   Without regard to the number of days in a calendar year on which an
employee performs personal services in any municipal corporation, an employer
shall withhold municipal income tax on all of the employee’s qualifying wages
for a taxable year and remit that tax only to the municipal corporation in
which the employer’s fixed location is located if the employer qualifies as a
small employer as defined in §
37.057. To determine whether an employer qualifies as a small employer for a
taxable year, a Tax Administrator may require the employer to provide the Tax
Administrator with the employer’s federal income tax return for the preceding
taxable year.
      (6)   Divisions (B)(2)(a) and (B)(4) above shall not apply to the extent
that a Tax Administrator and an employer enter into an agreement regarding the
manner in which the employer shall comply with the requirements of division (A)
above.
      (7)   (a)   In the case of a person performing personal services at a
petroleum refinery located in a municipal corporation that imposes a tax on
income, an employer is not required to withhold municipal income tax on the
qualifying wages of such a person if the person performs those services on 12
or fewer days in a calendar year, unless the principal place of work of the
employer is located in another municipal corporation in this state that imposes
a tax applying to compensation paid to the person for services performed on
those days and the person is not liable to that other municipal corporation for
tax on the compensation paid for such services. For the purposes of this
division (B)(7)(a), a petroleum refinery is a facility with a standard
industrial classification code facility classification of 2911, petroleum
refining.
         (b)   Notwithstanding division (B)(4) above, if, during a calendar
year, the number of days an individual performs personal services at a
petroleum refinery exceeds 12, the employer shall withhold tax for the
municipal corporation for the first 12 days for which the employer paid
qualifying wages to the individual and for all subsequent days in the calendar
year on which the individual performed services at the refinery.
   (C)   Collection at source; casino and VLT.
      (1)   The municipality shall require a casino facility or a casino
operator, as defined in § 6(C)(9) of Article XV, Ohio Constitution, and R.C. §
3772.01, respectively, or a lottery sales agent conducting video lottery
terminals sales on behalf of the state to withhold and remit municipal income
tax with respect to amounts other than qualifying wages as provided in this
section.
      (2)   If a person’s winnings at a casino facility are an amount for which
reporting to the Internal Revenue Service of the amount is required by § 6041
of the Internal Revenue Code, being 26 U.S.C. § 6041, as amended, the casino
operator shall deduct and withhold municipal income tax from the person’s
winnings at the rate of the tax imposed by the municipal corporation in which
the casino facility is located.
      (3)   Amounts deducted and withheld by a casino operator are held in
trust for the benefit of the municipal corporation to which the tax is owed.
         (a)   On or before the tenth day of each month, the casino operator
shall file a return electronically with the Tax Administrator of the
municipality, providing the name, address and Social Security number of the
person from whose winnings amounts were deducted and withheld, the amount of
each such deduction and withholding during the preceding calendar month, the
amount of the winnings from which each such amount was withheld, the type of
casino gaming that resulted in such winnings and any other information required
by the Tax Administrator. With this return, the casino operator shall remit
electronically to the municipality all amounts deducted and withheld during the
preceding month.
         (b)   Annually, on or before January 31, a casino operator shall file
an annual return electronically with the Tax Administrator of the municipal
corporation in which the casino facility is located, indicating the total
amount deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar year. The casino
operator shall remit electronically with the annual return any amount that was
deducted and withheld and that was not previously remitted. If the name,
address or Social Security number of a person or the amount deducted and
withheld with respect to that person was omitted on a monthly return for that
reporting period, that information shall be indicated on the annual return.
         (c)   Annually, on or before January 31, a casino operator shall issue
an information return to each person with respect to whom an amount has been
deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar year. The information
return shall show the total amount of municipal income tax deducted from the
person’s winnings during the preceding year. The casino operator shall provide
to the Tax Administrator a copy of each information return issued under this
division (C)(3)(c). The Administrator may require that such copies be
transmitted electronically.
         (d)   A casino operator that fails to file a return and remit the
amounts deducted and withheld shall be personally liable for the amount
withheld and not remitted. Such personal liability extends to any penalty and
interest imposed for the late filing of a return or the late payment of tax
deducted and withheld.
         (e)   If a casino operator sells the casino facility or otherwise
quits the casino business, the amounts deducted and withheld along with any
penalties and interest thereon are immediately due and payable. The successor
shall withhold an amount of the purchase money that is sufficient to cover the
amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties and interest thereon
until the predecessor casino operator produces either of the following:
            1.   A receipt from the Tax Administrator showing that the amounts
deducted and withheld and penalties and interest thereon have been paid; or
            2.   A certificate from the Tax Administrator indicating that no
amounts are due. If the successor fails to withhold purchase money, the
successor is personally liable for the payment of the amounts deducted and
withheld and penalties and interest thereon.
         (f)   The failure of a casino operator to deduct and withhold the
required amount from a person’s winnings does not relieve that person from
liability for the municipal income tax with respect to those winnings.
      (4)   If a person’s prize award from a video lottery terminal is an
amount for which reporting to the Internal Revenue Service is required by §
6041 of the internal Revenue Code, as amended, the video lottery sales agent
shall deduct and withhold municipal income tax from the person’s prize award at
the rate of the tax imposed by the municipal corporation in which the video
lottery terminal facility is located.
      (5)   Amounts deducted and withheld by a video lottery sales agent are
held in trust for the benefit of the municipal corporation to which the tax is
owed.
         (a)   The video lottery sales agent shall issue to a person from whose
prize award an amount has been deducted and withheld a receipt for the amount
deducted and withheld, and shall obtain from the person receiving a prize award
the person’s name, address and Social Security number in order to facilitate
the preparation of returns required by this section.
         (b)   On or before the tenth day of each month, the video lottery
sales agent shall file a return electronically with the Tax Administrator of
the municipality providing the names, addresses and Social Security numbers of
the persons from whose prize awards amounts were deducted and withheld, the
amount of each such deduction and withholding during the preceding calendar
month, the amount of the prize award from which each such amount was withheld,
and any other information required by the Tax Administrator. With the return,
the video lottery sales agent shall remit electronically to the Tax
Administrator all amounts deducted and withheld during the preceding month.
         (c)   A video lottery sales agent shall maintain a record of all
receipts issued under this division (C)(5) and shall make those records
available to the Tax Administrator upon request. Such records shall be
maintained in accordance with R.C. § 5747.17 and any rules adopted pursuant
thereto.
         (d)   Annually, on or before January 31, each video lottery terminal
sales agent shall file an annual return electronically with the Tax
Administrator of the municipal corporation in which the facility is located
indicating the total amount deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar
year. The video lottery sales agent shall remit electronically with the annual
return any amount that was deducted and withheld and that was not previously
remitted. If the name, address or Social Security number of a person or the
amount deducted and withheld with respect to that person was omitted on a
monthly return for that reporting period, that information shall be indicated
on the annual return.
         (e)   Annually, on or before January 31, a video lottery sales agent
shall issue an information return to each person with respect to whom an amount
has been deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar year. The
information return shall show the total amount of municipal income tax deducted
and withheld from the person’s prize award by the video lottery sales agent
during the preceding year. A video lottery sales agent shall provide to the Tax
Administrator of the municipal corporation a copy of each information return
issued under this division (C)(5)(e). The Tax Administrator may require that
such copies be transmitted electronically.
         (f)   A video lottery sales agent who fails to file a return and remit
the amounts deducted and withheld is personally liable for the amount deducted
and withheld and not remitted. Such personal liability extends to any penalty
and interest imposed for the late filing of a return or the late payment of tax
deducted and withheld.
      (6)   If a video lottery sales agent ceases to operate video lottery
terminals, the amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties and
interest thereon are immediately due and payable. The successor of the video
lottery sales agent that purchases the video lottery terminals from the agent
shall withhold an amount from the purchase money that is sufficient to cover
the amounts deducted and withheld and any penalties and interest thereon until
the predecessor video lottery sales agent operator produces either of the
following:
         (a)   A receipt from the Tax Administrator showing that the amounts
deducted and withheld and penalties and interest thereon have been paid; or
         (b)   1.   A certificate from the Tax Administrator indicating that no
amounts are due.
            2.   If the successor fails to withhold purchase money, the
successor is personally liable for the payment of the amounts deducted and
withheld and penalties and interest thereon.
      (7)   The failure of a video lottery sales agent to deduct and withhold
the required amount from a person’s prize award does not relieve that person
from liability for the municipal income tax with respect to that prize award.
      (8)   If a casino operator or lottery sales agent files a return late,
fails to file a return, remits amounts deducted and withheld late or fails to
remit amounts deducted and withheld as required under this section, the Tax
Administrator of a municipal corporation may impose the following applicable
penalty:
         (a)   For the late remittance of, or failure to remit, tax deducted
and withheld under this section, a penalty equal to 50% of the tax deducted and
withheld; and
         (b)   For the failure to file, or the late filing of a monthly or
annual return, a penalty of $500 for each return not filed or filed late.
Interest shall accrue on past due amounts deducted and withheld at the rate
prescribed in R.C. § 5703.47.
      (9)   Amounts deducted and withheld on behalf of a municipal corporation
shall be allowed as a credit against payment of the tax imposed by the
municipal corporation and shall be treated as taxes paid for purposes of §
37.061. This division (C)(9) applies only to the person for whom the amount is
deducted and withheld.
      (10)   The Tax Administrator shall prescribe the forms of the receipts
and returns required under this section.
(Ord. 18-15, passed 11-2-2015) Penalty, see §
37.999
Statutory reference:
   Definitions, see R.C. § 718.01
   Occasional entrant, personal services; withholding, see R.C. § 718.011
   Withholding by casinos and lottery sales agents, see R.C. § 718.031
   Withholding from qualifying wages, see R.C. § 718.03
§ 37.060 INCOME SUBJECT TO NET PROFIT TAX.
   (A)   Determining municipal taxable income for taxpayers who are not
individuals. “Municipal taxable income” for a taxpayer who is not an individual
for the municipality is calculated as follows: “income” reduced by “exempt
income” to the extent otherwise included in income, multiplied by
apportionment, further reduced by any “pre-2017 net operating loss
carryforward” equals “municipal taxable income”.
      (1)   “Income” for a taxpayer that is not an individual means the “net
profit” of the taxpayer.
         (a)   “Net profit” for a person other than an individual is defined in
§
37.057.
         (b)   “Adjusted federal taxable income” is defined in §
37.057.
      (2)   “Exempt income” is defined in §
37.057.
      (3)   “Apportionment” means the apportionment as determined by division
(B) below.
      (4)   “Pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward” is defined in §
37.057.
   (B)   Net profit; income subject to net profit tax; alternative
apportionment. This section applies to any taxpayer engaged in a business or
profession in the municipality unless the taxpayer is an individual who resides
in the municipality or the taxpayer is an electric company, combined company or
telephone company that is subject to and required to file reports under R.C.
Chapter 5745.
      (1)   Net profit from a business or profession conducted both within and
without the boundaries of the municipality shall be considered as having a
taxable situs in the municipality for purposes of municipal income taxation in
the same proportion as the average ratio of the following:
         (a)   1.   The average original cost of the real property and tangible
personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in the business or profession
in the municipality during the taxable period to the average original cost of
all of the real and tangible personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in
the business or profession during the same period, wherever situated; and
            2.   As used in division (B)(1)(a)1. above, tangible personal or
real property shall include property rented or leased by the taxpayer and the
value of such property shall be determined by multiplying the annual rental
thereon by eight.
         (b)   Wages, salaries and other compensation paid during the taxable
period to individuals employed in the business or profession for services
performed in the municipality to wages, salaries, and other compensation paid
during the same period to individuals employed in the business or profession,
wherever the individual’s services are performed, excluding compensation from
which taxes are not required to be withheld under §
37.059(B); and
         (c)   Total gross receipts of the business or profession from sales
and rentals made and services performed during the taxable period in the
municipality to total gross receipts of the business or profession during the
same period from sales, rentals, and services, wherever made or performed.
      (2)   (a)   If the apportionment factors described in division (B)(1)
above do not fairly represent the extent of a taxpayer’s business activity in
the municipality, the taxpayer may request, or the Tax Administrator of the
municipality may require, that the taxpayer use, with respect to all or any
portion of the income of the taxpayer, an alternative apportionment method
involving one or more of the following:
            1.   Separate accounting;
            2.   The exclusion of one or more of the factors;
            3.   The inclusion of one or more additional factors that would
provide for a more fair apportionment of the income of the taxpayer to the
municipality; and
            4.   A modification of one or more of the factors.
         (b)   A taxpayer request to use an alternative apportionment method
shall be in writing and shall accompany a tax return, timely filed appeal of an
assessment or timely filed amended tax return. The taxpayer may use the
requested alternative method unless the Tax Administrator denies the request in
an assessment issued within the period prescribed by §
37.073(A).
         (c)   A Tax Administrator may require a taxpayer to use an alternative
apportionment method as described in division (B)(2)(a) above only by issuing
an assessment to the taxpayer within the period prescribed by §
37.073(A).
         (d)   Nothing in this division (B)(2) nullifies or otherwise affects
any alternative apportionment arrangement approved by a Tax Administrator or
otherwise agreed upon by both the Tax Administrator and taxpayer before January
1, 2016.
      (3)   As used in division (B)(1)(b) above, WAGES, SALARIES AND OTHER
COMPENSA- TION includes only wages, salaries, or other compensation paid to an
employee for services performed at any of the following locations:
         (a)   A location that is owned, controlled or used by, rented to or
under the possession of one of the following:
            1.   The employer;
            2.   A vendor, customer, client or patient of the employer, or a
related member of such a vendor, customer, client or patient; or
            3.   A vendor, customer, client or patient of a person described in
division (B)(3)(a)2. above, or a related member of such a vendor, customer,
client or patient.
         (b)   Any location at which a trial, appeal, hearing, investigation,
inquiry, review, court- martial or similar administrative, judicial or
legislative matter or proceeding is being conducted, provided that the
compensation is paid for services performed for, or on behalf of, the employer
or that the employee’s presence at the location directly or indirectly benefits
the employer; and
         (c)   Any other location, if the Tax Administrator determines that the
employer directed the employee to perform the services at the other location in
lieu of a location described in divisions (B)(3)(a) or (B)(3)(b) above solely
in order to avoid or reduce the employer’s municipal income tax liability. If a
Tax Administrator makes such a determination, the employer may dispute the
determination by establishing, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the Tax
Administrator’s determination was unreasonable.
      (4)   For the purposes of division (B)(1)(c) above, receipts from sales
and rentals made and services performed shall be sitused to a municipal
corporation as follows:
         (a)   Gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property shall
be sitused to the municipal corporation in which the sale originated. For the
purposes of this division (B)(4)(a), a sale of property originates in a
municipal corporation if, regardless of where title passes, the property meets
any of the following criteria:
            1.   The property is shipped to or delivered within the municipal
corporation from a stock of goods located within the municipal corporation;
            2.   The property is delivered within the municipal corporation
from a location outside the municipal corporation, provided the taxpayer is
regularly engaged through its own employees in the solicitation or promotion of
sales within such municipal corporation and the sales result from such
solicitation or promotion; and
            3.   The property is shipped from a place within the municipal
corporation to purchasers outside the municipal corporation, provided that the
taxpayer is not, through its own employees, regularly engaged in the
solicitation or promotion of sales at the place where delivery is made.
         (b)   Gross receipts from the sale of services shall be sitused to the
municipal corporation to the extent that such services are performed in the
municipal corporation.
         (c)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from the sale
of real property located in the municipal corporation shall be sitused to the
municipal corporation.
         (d)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from rents and
royalties from real property located in the municipal corporation shall be
sitused to the municipal corporation.
         (e)   Gross receipts from rents and royalties from tangible personal
property shall be sitused to the municipal corporation based upon the extent to
which the tangible personal property is used in the municipal corporation.
      (5)   (a)   The net profit received by an individual taxpayer from the
rental of real estate owned directly by the individual or by a disregarded
entity owned by the individual shall be subject to tax only by the municipal
corporation in which the property generating the net profit is located and the
municipal corporation in which the individual taxpayer that receives the net
profit resides.
         (b)   A municipal corporation shall allow such taxpayers to elect to
use separate accounting for the purpose of calculating net profit sitused under
this division (B)(5) to the municipal corporation in which the property is
located.
      (6)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(6)(b) below, commissions
received by a real estate agent or broker relating to the sale, purchase or
lease of real estate shall be sitused to the municipal corporation in which the
real estate is located. Net profit reported by the real estate agent or broker
shall be allocated to a municipal corporation based upon the ratio of the
commissions the agent or broker received from the sale, purchase or lease of
real estate located in the municipal corporation to the commissions received
from the sale, purchase or lease of real estate everywhere in the taxable year.
         (b)   An individual who is a resident of a municipal corporation that
imposes a municipal income tax shall report the individual’s net profit from
all real estate activity on the individual’s annual tax return for that
municipal corporation. The individual may claim a credit for taxes the
individual paid on such net profit to another municipal corporation to the
extent that such credit is allowed under §
37.062(A).
      (7)   (a)   If, in computing a taxpayer’s adjusted federal taxable
income, the taxpayer deducted any amount with respect to a stock option granted
to an employee, and if the employee is not required to include in the
employee’s income any such amount or a portion thereof because it is exempted
from taxation under division (12) of the definition for exempt income and
division (1)(c) of the definition for qualifying wages in §
37.057, by a municipal corporation to which the taxpayer has apportioned a
portion of its net profit, the taxpayer shall add the amount that is exempt
from taxation to the taxpayer’s net profit that was apportioned to that
municipal corporation. In no case shall a taxpayer be required to add to its
net profit that was apportioned to that municipal corporation any amount other
than the amount upon which the employee would be required to pay tax were the
amount related to the stock option not exempted from taxation.
         (b)   This division (B)(7) applies solely for the purpose of making an
adjustment to the amount of a taxpayer’s net profit that was apportioned to a
municipal corporation under this section.
      (8)   When calculating the ratios described in division (B)(1) above for
the purposes of that division or division (B)(2) above, the owner of a
disregarded entity shall include in the owner’s ratios the property, payroll
and gross receipts of such disregarded entity.
   (C)   Consolidated federal income tax return.
      (1)   For the purpose of this division (C), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         AFFILIATED GROUP OF CORPORATIONS. An affiliated group as defined in §
1504 of the Internal Revenue Code, being 26 U.S.C. § 1504, except that, if such
a group includes at least one incumbent local exchange carrier that is
primarily engaged in the business of providing local exchange telephone service
in this state, the affiliated group shall not include any incumbent local
exchange carrier that would otherwise be included in the group.
         CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL INCOME TAX RETURN. A consolidated return filed
for federal income tax purposes pursuant to § 1501 of the Internal Revenue
Code.
         CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME. The consolidated taxable income
of an affiliated group of corporations, as computed for the purposes of filing
a consolidated federal income tax return, before consideration of net operating
losses or special deductions. CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME does not
include income or loss of an incumbent local exchange carrier that is excluded
from the affiliated group under the definition above.
         INCUMBENT LOCAL EXCHANGE CARRIER. The same meaning as in R.C. §
4927.01.
         LOCAL EXCHANGE TELEPHONE SERVICE. The same meaning as in R.C. §
5727.01.
      (2)   (a)   For taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2016, a
taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations may elect to
file a consolidated municipal income tax return for a taxable year if at least
one member of the affiliated group of corporations is subject to the municipal
income tax in that taxable year and if the affiliated group of corporations
filed a consolidated federal income tax return with respect to that taxable
year:
            1.   The election is binding for a five-year period beginning with
the first taxable year of the initial election unless a change in the reporting
method is required under federal law;
            2.   The election continues to be binding for each subsequent five-
year period unless the taxpayer elects to discontinue filing consolidated
municipal income tax returns under division (C)(2)(b) below; or
            3.   A taxpayer receives permission from the Tax Administrator. The
Tax Administrator shall approve such a request for good cause shown.
         (b)   An election to discontinue filing consolidated municipal income
tax returns under this section must be made in the first year following the
last year of a five-year consolidated municipal income tax return election
period in effect under division (C)(2)(a) above. The election to discontinue
filing a consolidated municipal income tax return is binding for a five-year
period beginning with the first taxable year of the election.
         (c)   An election made under divisions (C)(2)(a) or (C)(2)(b) above is
binding on all members of the affiliated group of corporations subject to a
municipal income tax.
      (3)   A taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations
that filed a consolidated federal income tax return for a taxable year shall
file a consolidated municipal income tax return for that taxable year if the
Tax Administrator determines, by a preponderance of the evidence, that
intercompany transactions have not been conducted at arm’s length and that
there has been a distortive shifting of income or expenses with regard to
allocation of net profits to the municipal corporation. A taxpayer that is
required to file a consolidated municipal income tax return for a taxable year
shall file a consolidated municipal income tax return for all subsequent
taxable years unless the taxpayer requests and receives written permission from
the Tax Administrator to file a separate return or a taxpayer has experienced a
change in circumstances.
      (4)   A taxpayer shall prepare a consolidated municipal income tax return
in the same manner as is required under the United States Department of
Treasury regulations that prescribe procedures for the preparation of the
consolidated federal income tax return required to be filed by the common
parent of the affiliated group of which the taxpayer is a member.
      (5)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (C)(5)(b), (C)(5)
(c) and (C)(5)(d) below, corporations that file a consolidated municipal income
tax return shall compute adjusted federal taxable income, as defined in §
37.057, by substituting “consolidated federal taxable income” for “federal
taxable income” wherever “federal taxable income” appears in that definition
and by substituting “an affiliated group of corporation’s” for “a C
corporation’s” wherever “a C corporation’s” appears in that definition.
         (b)   No corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return
shall make any adjustment otherwise required under the definition for adjusted
federal income tax in §
37.057 to the extent that the item of income or deduction otherwise subject to
the adjustment has been eliminated or consolidated in the computation of
consolidated federal taxable income.
         (c)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having at
least 80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly
or indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group’s consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, the
corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return shall do one of
the following with respect to that pass-through entity’s net profit or loss for
that taxable year:
            1.   Exclude the pass-through entity’s net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in division (B) above, exclude the
property, payroll and gross receipts of the pass-through entity in the
computation of the affiliated group’s net profit sitused to a municipal
corporation. If the entity’s net profit or loss is so excluded, the entity
shall be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis of the
entity’s net profits that would otherwise be included in the consolidated
federal taxable income of the affiliated group; and
            2.   Include the pass-through entity’s net profit or loss in the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in division (B) above, include the
property, payroll, and gross receipts of the pass-through entity in the
computation of the affiliated group’s net profit sitused to a municipal
corporation. If the entity’s net profit or loss is so included, the entity
shall not be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis of the
entity’s net profits that are included in the consolidated federal taxable
income of the affiliated group.
         (d)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having less
than 80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly
or indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group’s consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, all
of the following shall apply:
            1.   The corporation filing the consolidated municipal income tax
return shall exclude the pass-through entity’s net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purposes of making the computations required in division (B) above, exclude the
property, payroll, and gross receipts of the pass-through entity in the
computation of the affiliated group’s net profit sitused to a municipal
corporation; and
            2.   The pass-through entity shall be subject to municipal income
taxation as a separate taxpayer in accordance with this subchapter on the basis
of the entity’s net profits that would otherwise be included in the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
      (6)   Corporations filing a consolidated municipal income tax return
shall make the computations required under division (B) above by substituting
“consolidated federal taxable income attributable to” for “net profit from”
wherever “net profit from” appears in that section and by substituting
“affiliated group of corporations” for “taxpayer” wherever “taxpayer” appears
in that section.
      (7)   Each corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return
is jointly and severally liable for any tax, interest, penalties, fines,
charges or other amounts imposed by a municipal corporation in accordance with
this subchapter on the corporation, an affiliated group of which the
corporation is a member for any portion of the taxable year, or any one or more
members of such an affiliated group.
      (8)   Corporations and their affiliates that made an election or entered
into an agreement with a municipal corporation before January 1, 2016, to file
a consolidated or combined tax return with such municipal corporation may
continue to file consolidated or combined tax returns in accordance with such
election or agreement for taxable years beginning on and after January 1, 2016.
   (D)   Tax credit for businesses that foster new jobs in Ohio. The
municipality, by ordinance, may grant a refundable or nonrefundable credit
against its tax on income to a taxpayer to foster job creation in the
municipality. If a credit is granted under this section, it shall be measured
as a percentage of the new income tax revenue the municipality derives from new
employees of the taxpayer and shall be for a term not exceeding 15 years.
Before the municipality passes an ordinance granting a credit, the municipality
and the taxpayer shall enter into an agreement specifying all the conditions of
the credit.
   (E)   Tax credits to foster job retention.
      (1)   The municipality, by ordinance, may grant a refundable or
nonrefundable credit against its tax on income to a taxpayer for the purpose of
fostering job retention in the municipality. If a credit is granted under this
section, it shall be measured as a percentage of the income tax revenue the
municipality derives from the retained employees of the taxpayer, and shall be
for a term not exceeding 15 years.
      (2)   Before the municipality passes an ordinance allowing such a credit,
the municipality and the taxpayer shall enter into an agreement specifying all
the conditions of the credit.
(Ord. 18-15, passed 11-2-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Consolidated municipal tax return, see R.C. § 718.06
   Definitions, see R.C. § 718.01
   Fostering job retention; tax credits, see R.C. § 718.151
   Fostering new jobs; tax credits, see R.C. § 718.15
   Income subject to tax, see R.C. § 718.02
§ 37.061 DECLARATION OF ESTIMATED TAX.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ESTIMATED TAXES. The amount that the taxpayer reasonably estimates to be
the taxpayer’s tax liability for a municipal corporation’s income tax for the
current taxable year.
      TAX LIABILITY. The total taxes due to a municipal corporation for the
taxable year, after allowing any credit to which the taxpayer is entitled, and
after applying any estimated tax payment, withholding payment, or credit from
another taxable year.
   (B)   (1)   Every taxpayer shall make a declaration of estimated taxes for
the current taxable year, on the form prescribed by the Tax Administrator, if
the amount payable as estimated taxes is at least $200. For the purposes of
this section:
         (a)   Taxes withheld from qualifying wages shall be considered as paid
to the municipal corporation for which the taxes were withheld in equal amounts
on each payment date. If the taxpayer establishes the dates on which all
amounts were actually withheld, the amounts withheld shall be considered as
paid on the dates on which the amounts were actually withheld;
         (b)   An overpayment of tax applied as a credit to a subsequent
taxable year is deemed to be paid on the date of the postmark stamped on the
cover in which the payment is mailed or, if the payment is made by electronic
funds transfer, the date the payment is submitted. As used in this division (B)
(1)(b), DATE OF THE POSTMARK means, in the event there is more than one date on
the cover, the earliest date imprinted on the cover by the postal service;
         (c)   A taxpayer having a taxable year of less than 12 months shall
make a declaration under rules prescribed by the Tax Administrator; and
         (d)   Taxes withheld by a casino operator or by a lottery sales agent
under R.C. § 718.031 are deemed to be paid to the municipal corporation for
which the taxes were withheld on the date the taxes are withheld from the
taxpayer’s winnings.
      (2)   Taxpayers filing joint returns shall file joint declarations of
estimated taxes.
      (3)   The declaration of estimated taxes shall be filed on or before the
date prescribed for the filing of municipal income tax returns under §
37.063(A)(7) or on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month of the first
taxable year after the taxpayer becomes subject to tax for the first time.
      (4)   Taxpayers reporting on a fiscal year basis shall file a declaration
on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the beginning of each
fiscal year or period.
      (5)   The original declaration or any subsequent amendment may be
increased or decreased on or before any subsequent quarterly payment day as
provided in this section.
   (C)   (1)   The required portion of the tax liability for the taxable year
that shall be paid through estimated taxes made payable to the municipality or
Tax Administrator, including the application of tax refunds to estimated taxes
and withholding on or before the applicable payment date, shall be as follows:
         (a)   On or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 22.5% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         (b)   On or before the fifteenth day of the sixth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 45% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         (c)    On or before the fifteenth day of the ninth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 67.5%of the tax liability for the taxable year;
and
         (d)   On or before the fifteenth day of the twelfth month of the
taxable year, 90% of the tax liability for the taxable year.
      (2)   A taxpayer may amend a declaration under rules prescribed by the
Tax Administrator. When an amended declaration has been filed, the unpaid
balance shown due on the amended declaration shall be paid in equal
installments on or before the remaining payment dates. The amended declaration
must be filed on the next applicable due date as outlined in divisions (C)(1)
(a) through (C)(1)(d) above.
      (3)   On or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month of the year
following that for which the declaration or amended declaration was filed, an
annual return shall be filed and any balance which may be due shall be paid
with the return in accordance with §
37.063(A).
         (a)   For taxpayers who are individuals, or who are not individuals
and are reporting and filing on a calendar year basis, the annual tax return is
due on the same date as the filing of the federal tax return, unless extended
pursuant to R.C. § 5747.08(G).
         (b)   For taxpayers who are not individuals, and are reporting and
filing on a fiscal year basis or any period other than a calendar year, the
annual return is due on the fifteenth day of the fourth month following the end
of the taxable year or period.
      (4)   An amended declaration is required whenever the taxpayer’s
estimated tax liability changes during the taxable year. A change in estimated
tax liability may either increase or decrease the estimated tax liability for
the taxable year.
   (D)   (1)   In the case of any underpayment of any portion of a tax
liability, penalty and interest may be imposed pursuant to §
37.064 upon the amount of underpayment for the period of underpayment, unless
the underpayment is due to reasonable cause as described in division (E) below.
The amount of the underpayment shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   For the first payment of estimated taxes each year, 22.5% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         (b)   For the second payment of estimated taxes each year, 45% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         (c)   For the third payment of estimated taxes each year, 67.5% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment; and
         (d)   For the fourth payment of estimated taxes each year, 90% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment.
      (2)   The period of the underpayment shall run from the day the estimated
payment was required to be made to the date on which the payment is made. For
purposes of this division (D)(2), a payment of estimated taxes on or before any
payment date shall be considered a payment of any previous underpayment only to
the extent the payment of estimated taxes exceeds the amount of the payment
presently required to be paid to avoid any penalty.
   (E)   An underpayment of any portion of tax liability determined under
division (D) above shall be due to reasonable cause and the penalty imposed by
this section shall not be added to the taxes for the taxable year if any of the
following apply:
      (1)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 90% of
the tax liability for the current taxable year, determined by annualizing the
income received during the year up to the end of the month immediately
preceding the month in which the payment is due;
      (2)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 100%
of the tax liability shown on the return of the taxpayer for the preceding
taxable year, provided that the immediately preceding taxable year reflected a
period of 12 months and the taxpayer filed a return with the municipal
corporation under §
37.063(A) for that year; or
      (3)   The taxpayer is an individual who resides in the municipality but
was not domiciled there on January 1 of the calendar year that includes the
first day of the taxable year.
   (F)   A Tax Administrator may waive the requirement for filing a declaration
of estimated taxes for any class of taxpayers after finding that the waiver is
reasonable and proper in view of administrative costs and other factors.
(Ord. 18-15, passed 11-2-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Estimated taxes, see R.C. § 718.08
§ 37.062 CREDIT FOR TAX PAID.
   (A)   Credit allowed for tax paid in another municipality.
      (1)   Where a resident of the Village of Bluffton is subject to a
municipal income tax in another municipality, he or she shall not pay a total
municipal income tax on the same income greater than the tax imposed at the
higher rate.
      (2)   Every individual taxpayer who resides in the Village of Bluffton
who receives net profits, salaries, wages, commissions or other personal
service compensation for work done or services performed or rendered outside of
the Village of Bluffton if it be made to appear that he or she has paid a
municipal income tax on the same income taxable under this subchapter to
another municipality, shall be allowed a credit against the tax imposed by this
subchapter of the amount so paid by him or her or in his or her behalf to such
other municipality. The credit shall not exceed the tax assessed by this
subchapter on such income earned in such other municipality or municipalities
where such tax is paid.
   (B)   Refundable credit for qualifying loss.
      (1)   For the purpose of this division (B), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN. A compensation plan described
in § 3121(v)(2)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code.
         QUALIFYING LOSS.
            1.   Except as provided in division 2. below, QUALIFYING LOSS means
the excess, if any, of the total amount of compensation the payment of which is
deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan over the total
amount of income the taxpayer has recognized for federal income tax purposes
for all taxable years on a cumulative basis as compensation with respect to the
taxpayer’s receipt of money and property attributable to distributions in
connection with the nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
            2.   If, for one or more taxable years, the taxpayer has not paid
to one or more municipal corporations income tax imposed on the entire amount
of compensation the payment of which is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan, then the QUALIFYING LOSS is the product of the
amount resulting from the calculation described in division 1. above computed
without regard to this division 2. and a fraction the numerator of which is the
portion of such compensation on which the taxpayer has paid income tax to one
or more municipal corporations and the denominator of which is the total amount
of compensation the payment of which is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan.
            3.   With respect to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan, the
taxpayer sustains a QUALIFYING LOSS only in the taxable year in which the
taxpayer receives the final distribution of money and property pursuant to that
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
         QUALIFYING TAX RATE. The applicable tax rate for the taxable year for
the which the taxpayer paid income tax to a municipal corporation with respect
to any portion of the total amount of compensation the payment of which is
deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan. If different
tax rates applied for different taxable years, then the QUALIFYING TAX RATE is
a weighted average of those different tax rates. The weighted average shall be
based upon the tax paid to the municipal corporation each year with respect to
the nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(4) below, a refundable
credit shall be allowed against the income tax imposed by a municipal
corporation for each qualifying loss sustained by a taxpayer during the taxable
year. The amount of the credit shall be equal to the product of the qualifying
loss and the qualifying tax rate.
         (b)   A taxpayer shall claim the credit allowed under this division
(B) from each municipal corporation to which the taxpayer paid municipal income
tax with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan in one or more
taxable years.
         (c)   If a taxpayer has paid tax to more than one municipal
corporation with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan, the
amount of the credit that a taxpayer may claim from each municipal corporation
shall be calculated on the basis of each municipal corporation’s proportionate
share of the total municipal corporation income tax paid by the taxpayer to all
municipal corporations with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation
plan.
         (d)   In no case shall the amount of the credit allowed under this
division (B) exceed the cumulative income tax that a taxpayer has paid to a
municipal corporation for all taxable years with respect to the nonqualified
deferred compensation plan.
      (3)   (a)   For purposes of this division (B), municipal corporation
income tax that has been withheld with respect to a nonqualified deferred
compensation plan shall be considered to have been paid by the taxpayer with
respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
         (b)   Any municipal income tax that has been refunded or otherwise
credited for the benefit of the taxpayer with respect to a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan shall not be considered to have been paid to the
municipal corporation by the taxpayer.
      (4)   The credit allowed under this section is allowed only to the extent
the taxpayer’s qualifying loss is attributable to:
         (a)   The insolvency or bankruptcy of the employer who had established
the nonqualified deferred compensation plan; or
         (b)   The employee’s failure or inability to satisfy all of the
employer’s terms and conditions necessary to receive the nonqualified deferred
compensation.
   (C)   Credit for person working in joint economic development district or
zone. A municipality shall grant a credit against its tax on income to a
resident of the municipality who works in a joint economic development zone
created under R.C. § 715.691 or a joint economic development district created
under R.C. §§ 715.70, 715.71 or 715.72 to the same extent that it grants a
credit against its tax on income to its residents who are employed in another
municipal corporation, pursuant to division (A) above.
   (D)   Credit for tax beyond statute for obtaining refund.
      (1)   Income tax that has been deposited or paid to the municipality, but
should have been deposited or paid to another municipal corporation, is
allowable by the municipality as a refund, but is subject to the three-year
limitation on refunds as provided in §
37.063(F).
      (2)   Income tax that should have been deposited or paid to the
municipality, but was deposited or paid to another municipal corporation, shall
be subject to collection and recovery by the municipality. To the extent a
refund of such tax or withholding is barred by the limitation on refunds as
provided in §
37.063(F), the municipality will allow a non-refundable credit equal to the tax
or withholding paid to the other municipality against the income tax the
municipality claims is due. If the municipality’s tax rate is higher, the tax
representing the net difference of the tax rates is also subject to collection
by the municipality, along with any penalty and interest accruing during the
period of nonpayment.
      (3)   No carryforward of credit will be permitted when the overpayment is
beyond the three-year limitation for refunding of same as provided in §
37.063(F).
      (4)   Nothing in this section requires a municipality to allow credit for
tax paid to another municipal corporation if the municipality has reduced
credit for tax paid to another municipal corporation. Division (A) above
regarding any limitation on credit shall prevail.
(Ord. 18-15, passed 11-2-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Qualifying loss; refundable credit, see R.C. § 718.021
   Second municipality imposing tax after time period for refund, see R.C. §
718.121
   Worker in joint economic development zone or district, see R.C. § 718.16
§ 37.063 ANNUAL RETURN.
   (A)   Return and payment of tax.
      (1)   (a)   An annual return with respect to the income tax levied on
municipal taxable income by the municipality shall be completed and filed by
every taxpayer for any taxable year for which the taxpayer is subject to the
tax, regardless of whether or not income tax is due.
         (b)   The Tax Administrator shall accept on behalf of all nonresident
individual taxpayers a return filed by an employer, agent of an employer or
other payer located in the municipality under §
37.059(A)(3) when the nonresident individual taxpayer’s sole income subject to
the tax is the qualifying wages reported by the employer, agent of an employer,
or other payer, and no additional tax is due to the municipality.
         (c)   All resident individual taxpayers, 18 years of age and older,
shall file an annual municipal income tax return with the municipality,
regardless of income or liability.
      (2)   If an individual is deceased, any return or notice required of that
individual shad be completed and filed by that decedent’s executor,
administrator or other person charged with the property of that decedent.
      (3)   If an individual is unable to complete and file a return or notice
required by the municipality in accordance with this subchapter, the return or
notice required of that individual shall be completed and filed by the
individual’s duly authorized agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary or other
person charged with the care of the person or property of that individual. Such
duly authorized agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary or other person charged
with the care of the person or property of that individual shall provide, with
the filing of the return, appropriate documentation to support that they are
authorized to file a return or notice on behalf of the taxpayer. This notice
shall include any legally binding authorizations, and contact information
including name, address and phone number of the duly authorized agent,
guardian, conservator, fiduciary or other person.
      (4)   Returns or notices required of an estate or a trust shall be
completed and filed by the fiduciary of the estate or trust. Such fiduciary
shall provide, with the filing of the return, appropriate documentation to
support that they are authorized to file a return or notice on behalf of the
taxpayer. This notice shall include any legally binding authorizations, and
contact information including name, address and phone number of the fiduciary.
      (5)   No municipal corporation shall deny spouses the ability to file a
joint return.
      (6)   (a)   Each return required to be filed under this section shall
contain the signature of the taxpayer or the taxpayer’s duly authorized agent
and of the person who prepared the return for the taxpayer, and shall include
the taxpayer’s Social Security number or taxpayer identification number. Each
return shall be verified by a declaration under penalty of perjury.
         (b)   A taxpayer who is an individual is required to include, with
each annual return, amended return or request for refund required under this
section, copies of only the following documents: all of the taxpayer’s Internal
Revenue Service Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statements, including all information
reported on the taxpayer’s federal W-2, as well as taxable wages reported or
withheld for any municipal corporation; the taxpayer’s Internal Revenue Service
Form 1040 or, in the case of a return or request required by a qualified
municipal corporation, Ohio IT 1040; and, with respect to an amended tax return
or refund request, any other documentation necessary to support the refund
request or the adjustments made in the amended return. An individual taxpayer
who files the annual return required by this section electronically is not
required to provide paper copies of any of the foregoing to the Tax
Administrator unless the Tax Administrator requests such copies after the
return has been filed.
         (c)   A taxpayer that is not an individual is required to include,
with each annual net profit return, amended net profit return or request for
refund required under this section, copies of only the following documents: the
taxpayer’s Internal Revenue Service Form 1041, Form 1065, Form 1120, Form 1120-
REIT, Form 1120F or Form 1120S, and, with respect to an amended tax return or
refund request, any other documentation necessary to support the refund request
or the adjustments made in the amended return.
         (d)   A taxpayer that is not an individual and that files an annual
net profit return electronically through the Ohio Business Gateway or in some
other manner shall either mail the documents required under this division (A)
to the Tax Administrator at the time of filing or, if electronic submission is
available, submit the documents electronically through the Ohio Business
Gateway or a portal provided by municipality. The Department of Taxation shall
publish a method of electronically submitting the documents required under this
division (A) through the Ohio Business Gateway on or before January 1, 2016.
The Department shall transmit all documents submitted electronically under this
division (A) to the appropriate Tax Administrator.
         (e)   After a taxpayer files a tax return, the Tax Administrator shall
request, and the taxpayer shall provide, any information, statements or
documents required by the municipality to determine and verify the taxpayer’s
municipal income tax liability. The requirements imposed under this division
(A)(6) apply regardless of whether the taxpayer files on a generic form or on a
form prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
         (f)   Any other documentation, including schedules, other municipal
income tax returns or other supporting documentation necessary to verify
credits, income, losses or other pertinent factors on the return shall also be
included to avoid delay in processing, or disallowance by the Tax Administrator
of undocumented credits or losses.
      (7)   (a)   1.   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, each
individual income tax return required to be filed under this section shall be
completed and filed as required by the Tax Administrator on or before the date
prescribed for the filing of state individual income tax returns under R.C. §
5747.08(G). The taxpayer shall complete and file the return or notice on forms
prescribed by the Tax Administrator or on generic forms, together with
remittance made payable to the municipality or Tax Administrator.
            2.   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, each annual
net profit income tax return required to be filed under this section by a
taxpayer that is not an individual shall be completed and filed as required by
the Tax Administrator on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month
following the end of the taxpayer’s taxable year or period. The taxpayer shall
complete and file the return or notice on forms prescribed by the Tax
Administrator or on generic forms, together with remittance made payable to the
municipality or Tax Administrator.
            3.   In the case of individual income tax return required to be
filed by an individual, and net profit income tax return required to be filed
by a taxpayer who is not an individual, no remittance is required if the amount
shown to be due is $10 or less.
         (b)   If the Tax Administrator considers it necessary in order to
ensure the payment of the tax imposed by the municipality in accordance with
this subchapter, the Tax Administrator may require taxpayers to file returns
and make payments otherwise than as provided in this section, including
taxpayers not otherwise required to file annual returns.
         (c)   With respect to taxpayers to whom division (B) below applies, to
the extent that any provision in this division (A) conflicts with any provision
in division (B) below, the provision in division (B) below prevails.
      (8)   (a)   For taxable years beginning after 2015, the municipality
shall not require a taxpayer to remit tax with respect to net profits if the
amount due is $10 or less.
         (b)   Any taxpayer not required to remit tax to the municipality for a
taxable year pursuant to division (A)(8)(a) above shall file with the
municipality an annual net profit return under divisions (A)(6)(c) and (A)(6)
(d) above.
      (9)   This division (A)(9) shall not apply to payments required to be
made under §
37.059(A)(2)(a).
         (a)   If any report, claim, statement or other document required to be
filed, or any payment required to be made, within a prescribed period or on or
before a prescribed date under this subchapter is delivered after that period
or that to the Tax Administrator or other municipal official with which the
report, claim, statement or other document is required to be filed, or to which
the payment is required to be made, the date of the postmark stamped on the
cover in which the report, claim, statement, or other document or payment is
mailed shall be deemed to be the date of delivery or the date of payment. THE
DATE OF POSTMARK means, in the event there is more than one date on the cover,
the earliest date imprinted on the cover by the postal service.
         (b)   If a payment is required to be made by electronic funds
transfer, the payment is considered to be made when the payment is credited to
an account designated by the Tax Administrator for the receipt of tax payments,
except that, when a payment made by electronic funds transfer is delayed due to
circumstances not under the control of the taxpayer, the payment is considered
to be made when the taxpayer submitted the payment. For purposes of this
section, SUBMITTED THE PAYMENT means the date which the taxpayer has designated
for the delivery of payment, which may or may not be the same date as the date
the payment was initiated by the taxpayer.
      (10)   The amounts withheld for the municipality by an employer, the
agent of an employer or other payer as described in §
37.059(A) shall be allowed to the recipient of the compensation as credits
against payment of the tax imposed on the recipient unless the amounts withheld
were not remitted to the municipality and the recipient colluded with the
employer, agent or other payer in connection with the failure to remit the
amounts withheld.
      (11)   Each return required by the municipality to be filed in accordance
with this section shall include a box that the taxpayer may check to authorize
another person, including a tax return preparer who prepared the return, to
communicate with the Tax Administrator about matters pertaining to the return.
The return or instructions accompanying the return shall indicate that by
checking the box the taxpayer authorizes the Tax Administrator to contact the
preparer or other person concerning questions that arise during the examination
or other review of the return and authorizes the preparer or other person only
to provide the Tax Administrator with information that is missing from the
return, to contact the Tax Administrator for information about the examination
or other review of the return or the status of the taxpayer’s refund or
payments, and to respond to notices about mathematical errors, offsets, or
return preparation that the taxpayer has received from the Tax Administrator
and has shown to the preparer or other person. Authorization by the taxpayer of
another person to communicate with the Tax Administrator about matters
pertaining to the return does not preclude the Tax Administrator from
contacting the taxpayer regarding such matters.
      (12)   The Tax Administrator of the municipality shall accept for filing
a generic form of any income tax return, report or document required by the
municipality in accordance with this subchapter, provided that the generic
form, once completed and filed, contains all of the information required by
ordinances, resolutions or rules adopted by the municipality or Tax
Administrator, and provided that the taxpayer or tax return preparer filing the
generic form otherwise complies with the provisions of this subchapter and of
the municipality’s ordinance or resolution governing the filing of returns,
reports, or documents.
      (13)   When income tax returns, reports or other documents require the
signature of a tax return preparer, the Tax Administrator shall accept a
facsimile of such a signature in lieu of a manual signature.
      (14)   (a)   As used in this division (A)(14), WORKSITE LOCATION has the
same meaning as in §
37.059(B).
         (b)   A person may notify a Tax Administrator that the person does not
expect to be a taxpayer with respect to the municipal corporation for a taxable
year if both of the following conditions apply:
            1.   The person was required to file a tax return with the
municipal corporation for the immediately preceding taxable year because the
person performed services at a worksite location within the municipal
corporation, and the person has filed all appropriate and required returns and
remitted all applicable income tax and withholding payments as provided by this
subchapter. The Tax Administrator is not required to accept an affidavit from a
taxpayer who has not complied with the provisions of this subchapter;
            2.   a.   The person no longer provides services in the municipal
corporation, and does not expect to be subject to the municipal corporation’s
income tax for the taxable year; and
               b.   The person shall provide the notice in a signed affidavit
that briefly explains the person’s circumstances, including the location of the
previous worksite location and the last date on which the person performed
services or made any sales within the municipal corporation. The affidavit also
shall include the following statement: “The affiant has no plans to perform any
services within the municipal corporation, make any sales in the municipal
corporation, or otherwise become subject to the tax levied by the municipal
corporation during the taxable year. If the affiant does become subject to the
tax levied by the municipal corporation for the taxable year, the affiant
agrees to be considered a taxpayer and to properly register as a taxpayer with
the municipal corporation, if such a registration is required by the municipal
corporation’s resolutions, ordinances, or rules.” The person shall sign the
affidavit under penalty of perjury.
            3.   If a person submits an affidavit described in division (A)(14)
(b)2. above, the Tax Administrator shall not require the person to file any tax
return for the taxable year unless the Tax Administrator possesses information
that conflicts with the affidavit or if the circumstances described in the
affidavit change, or the taxpayer has engaged in activity which results in work
being performed, services provided, sales made or other activity that results
in municipal taxable income reportable to the municipality in the taxable year.
It shall be the responsibility of the taxpayer to comply with the provisions of
this subchapter relating to the reporting and filing of municipal taxable
income on an annual municipal income tax return, even if an affidavit has been
filed with the Tax Administrator for the taxable year. Nothing in this division
(A)(14) prohibits the Tax Administrator from performing an audit of the person.
   (B)   Return and payment of tax; individuals serving in combat zone.
      (1)   Each member of the National Guard of any state and each member of a
reserve component of the armed forces of the United States called to active
duty pursuant to an executive order issued by the President of the United
States or an act of the Congress of the United States, and each civilian
serving as support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in
support of the armed forces, may apply to the Tax Administrator of the
municipality for both an extension of time for filing of the return and an
extension of time for payment of taxes required by the municipality in
accordance with this subchapter during the period of the member’s or civilian’s
duty service and for 180 days thereafter. The application shall be filed on or
before the one hundred eightieth day after the member’s or civilian’s duty
terminates. An applicant shall provide such evidence as the Tax Administrator
considers necessary to demonstrate eligibility for the extension.
      (2)   (a)   If the Tax Administrator ascertains that an applicant is
qualified for an extension under this division (B), the Tax Administrator shall
enter into a contract with the applicant for the payment of the tax in
installments that begin on the one hundred eighty-first day after the
applicant’s active duty or service terminates. Except as provided in division
(B)(2)(c) below, the Tax Administrator may prescribe such contract terms as the
Tax Administrator considers appropriate.
         (b)   If the Tax Administrator ascertains that an applicant is
qualified for an extension under this section, the applicant shall neither be
required to file any return, report or other tax document nor be required to
pay any tax otherwise due to the municipality before the one hundred eighty-
first day after the applicant’s active duty or service terminates.
         (c)   Taxes paid pursuant to a contract entered into under division
(B)(2)(a) above are not delinquent. The Tax Administrator shall not require any
payments of penalties or interest in connection with those taxes for the
extension period.
      (3)   (a)   Nothing in this division denies to any person described in
this division (B)(3) the application of divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above.
         (b)   1.   A qualifying taxpayer who is eligible for an extension
under the Internal Revenue Code shall receive both an extension of time in
which to file any return, report or other tax document and an extension of time
in which to make any payment of taxes required by the municipality in
accordance with this subchapter. The length of any extension granted under this
division (B)(3)(b)1. shall be equal to the length of the corresponding
extension that the taxpayer receives under the Internal Revenue Code. As used
in this section, QUALIFYING TAXPAYER means a member of the National Guard or a
member of a reserve component of the armed forces of the United States called
to active duty pursuant to either an executive order issued by the President of
the United States or an act of the Congress of the United States, or a civilian
serving as support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in
support of the armed forces.
            2.   Taxes the payment of which is extended in accordance with
division (B)(3)(b)1. above are not delinquent during the extension period. Such
taxes become delinquent on the first day after the expiration of the extension
period if the taxes are not paid prior to that date. The Tax Administrator
shall not require any payment of penalties or interest in connection with those
taxes for the extension period. The Tax Administrator shall not include any
period of extension granted under division (B)(3)(b)1. above in calculating the
penalty or interest due on any unpaid tax.
      (4)   For each taxable year to which divisions (B)(1), (B)(2) or (B)(3)
above applies to a taxpayer, the provisions of divisions (B)(2)(a) and (B)(2)
(c) or (B)(3) above, as applicable, apply to the spouse of that taxpayer if the
filing status of the spouse and the taxpayer is married filing jointly for that
year.
   (C)   Use of Ohio Business Gateway; types of filings authorized.
      (1)   Any taxpayer subject to municipal income taxation with respect to
the taxpayer’s net profit from a business or profession may file any municipal
income tax return, or estimated municipal income tax return, or extension for
filing a municipal income tax return, and may make payment of amounts shown to
be due on such returns, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
      (2)   Any employer, agent of an employer or other payer may report the
amount of municipal income tax withheld from qualifying wages, and may make
remittance of such amounts, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
      (3)   Nothing in this section affects the due dates for filing employer
withholding tax returns or deposit of any required tax.
      (4)   The use of the Ohio Business Gateway by municipal corporations,
taxpayers or other persons does not affect the legal rights of municipalities
or taxpayers as otherwise permitted by law. The state shall not be a party to
the administration of municipal income taxes or to an appeal of a municipal
income tax matter, except as otherwise specifically provided by law.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (E) shall be construed as limiting or
removing the authority of any municipal corporation to administer, audit and
enforce the provisions of its municipal income tax.
   (D)   Extension of time to file.
      (1)   Any taxpayer that has duly requested an automatic six-month
extension for filing the taxpayer’s federal income tax return shall
automatically receive an extension for the filing of a municipal income tax
return. The extended due date of the municipal income tax return shall be the
fifteenth day of the tenth month after the last day of the taxable year to
which the return relates.
      (2)   Any taxpayer that qualifies for an automatic federal extension for
a period other than six months for filing the taxpayer’s federal income tax
return shall automatically receive an extension for the filing of a municipal
income tax return. The extended due date of the municipal income tax return
shall be the same as that of the extended federal income tax return.
      (3)   A taxpayer that has not requested or received a six-month extension
for filing the taxpayer’s federal income tax return may request that the Tax
Administrator grant the taxpayer a six-month extension of the date for filing
the taxpayer’s municipal income tax return. If the request is received by the
Tax Administrator on or before the date the municipal income tax return is due,
the Tax Administrator shall grant the taxpayer’s requested extension.
      (4)   An extension of time to file under this subchapter is not an
extension of the time to pay any tax due unless the Tax Administrator grants an
extension of that date.
      (5)   If the State Tax Commissioner extends for all taxpayers the date
for filing state income tax returns under R.C. § 5747.08(G), a taxpayer shall
automatically receive an extension for the filing of a municipal income tax
return. The extended due date of the municipal income tax return shall be the
same as the extended due date of the state income tax return.
   (E)   Amended returns.
      (1)   (a)   A taxpayer shall file an amended return with the Tax
Administrator in such form as the Tax Administrator requires if any of the
facts, figures, computations or attachments required in the taxpayer’s annual
return to determine the tax due levied by the municipality in accordance with
this subchapter must be altered.
         (b)   Within 60 days after the final determination of any federal or
state tax liability affecting the taxpayer’s municipal tax liability, that
taxpayer shall make and file an amended municipal return showing income subject
to the municipal income tax based upon such final determination of federal or
state tax liability, and pay any additional municipal income tax shown due
thereon or make a claim for refund of any overpayment, unless the tax or
overpayment is $10 or less.
         (c)   If a taxpayer intends to file an amended consolidated municipal
income tax return, or to amend its type of return from a separate return to a
consolidated return, based on the taxpayer’s consolidated federal income tax
return, the taxpayer shall notify the Tax Administrator before filing the
amended return.
      (2)   (a)   In the case of an underpayment, the amended return shall be
accompanied by payment of any combined additional tax due together with any
penalty and interest thereon. If the combined tax shown to be due is $10 or
less, such amount need not accompany the amended return. Except as provided
under division (E)(2)(b) below, the amended return shall not reopen those
facts, figures, computations, or attachments from a previously filed return
that are not affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the
taxpayer’s federal or state income tax return unless the applicable statute of
limitations for civil actions or prosecutions under §
37.073 has not expired for a previously filed return.
         (b)   The additional tax to be paid shall not exceed the amount of tax
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations and attachments were
reopened.
      (3)   (a)   In the case of an overpayment, a request for refund may be
filed under this division (E)(3)(a) within the period prescribed by §
37.073(E) for filing the amended return even if it is filed beyond the period
prescribed in that division if it otherwise conforms to the requirements of
that division. If the amount of the refund is $10 or less, no refund need be
paid by the municipality to the taxpayer. Except as set forth in division (E)
(3)(b) below, a request filed under this division (E)(3)(a) shall claim refund
of overpayments resulting from alterations to only those facts, figures,
computations or attachments required in the taxpayer’s annual return that are
affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the taxpayer’s
federal or state income tax return unless it is also filed within the time
prescribed in division (F) below. Except as set forth in this division (E)(3)
(a), the request shall not reopen those facts, figures, computations or
attachments that are not affected, either directly or indirectly, by the
adjustment to the taxpayer’s federal or state income tax return.
         (b)   The amount to be refunded shall not exceed the amount of refund
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations and attachments were
reopened.
   (F)   Refunds.
      (1)   Upon receipt of a request for a refund, the Tax Administrator of
the municipality, in accordance with this section, shall refund to employers,
agents of employers, other payers or taxpayers, with respect to any income or
withholding tax levied by the municipality:
         (a)   Overpayments of more than $10; and
         (b)   Amounts paid erroneously if the refund requested exceeds $10.
      (2)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, returns setting
forth a request for refund shall be filed with the Tax Administrator, within
three years after the tax was due or paid, whichever is later. Any
documentation that substantiates the taxpayer’s claim for a refund must be
included with the return filing. Failure to remit all documentation, including
schedules, other municipal income tax returns, or other supporting
documentation necessary to verify credits, income, losses or other pertinent
factors on the return will cause delay in processing and/or disallowance of
undocumented credits or losses.
         (b)   On filing of the refund request, the Tax Administrator shall
determine the amount of refund due and certify such amount to the appropriate
municipal corporation official for payment. Except as provided in division (F)
(2)(c) below, the Administrator shall issue an assessment to any taxpayer whose
request for refund is fully or partially denied. The assessment shall state the
amount of the refund that was denied, the reasons for the denial, and
instructions for appealing the assessment.
         (c)   If a Tax Administrator denies in whole or in part a refund
request included within the taxpayer’s originally filed annual income tax
return, the Tax Administrator shall notify the taxpayer, in writing, of the
amount of the refund that was denied, the reasons for the denial and
instructions for requesting an assessment that may be appealed under §
37.072.
      (3)   A request for a refund that is received after the last day for
filing specified in division (F)(2) above shall be considered to have been
filed in a timely manner if any of the following situations exist:
         (a)   The request is delivered by the postal service, and the earliest
postal service postmark on the cover in which the request is enclosed is not
later than the last day for filing the request;
         (b)   The request is delivered by the postal service, the only
postmark on the cover in which the request is enclosed was affixed by a private
postal meter, the date of that postmark is not later than the last day for
filing the request, and the request is received within seven days of such last
day; or
         (c)   The request is delivered by the postal service, no postmark date
was affixed to the cover in which the request is enclosed or the date of the
postmark so affixed is not legible, and the request is received within seven
days of the last day for making the request.
      (4)   Interest shall be allowed and paid on any overpayment by a taxpayer
of any municipal income tax obligation from the date of the overpayment until
the date of the refund of the overpayment, except that if any overpayment is
refunded within 90 days after the final filing date of the annual return or 90
days after the completed return is filed, whichever is later, no interest shall
be allowed on the refund. For the purpose of computing the payment of interest
on amounts overpaid, no amount of tax for any taxable year shall be considered
to have been paid before the date on which the return on which the tax is
reported is due, without regard to any extension of time for filing that
return. Interest shall be paid at the interest rate described in §
37.064(A).
      (5)   As used in this section, WITHHOLDING TAX has the same meaning as in
§
37.064.
(Ord. 18-15, passed 11-2-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Amended returns, see R.C. § 718.41
   Annual return; filing; extensions, see R.C. § 718.05
   Filing extension for certain armed forces service, see R.C. § 718.052
   Limitations, see R.C. § 718.12
   Requests for refunds, see R.C. § 718.19
   Use of Ohio Business Gateway, see R.C. § 718.051
§ 37.064 PENALTY, INTEREST, FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      APPLICABLE LAW. This subchapter, the resolutions, ordinances, codes,
directives, instructions and rules adopted by the municipality provided such
resolutions, ordinances, codes, directives, instructions and rules impose or
directly or indirectly address the levy, payment, remittance or filing
requirements of a municipal income tax.
      FEDERAL SHORT-TERM RATE. The rate of the average market yield on
outstanding marketable obligations of the United States with remaining periods
to maturity of three years or less, as determined under § 1274 of the Internal
Revenue Code, for July of the current year.
      INCOME TAX, ESTIMATED INCOME TAX and WITHHOLDING TAX. Any income tax,
estimated income tax and withholding tax imposed by a municipal corporation
pursuant to applicable law, including at anytime before January 1, 2016.
      INTEREST RATE AS DESCRIBED IN DIVISION (A) OF THIS SECTION. The federal
short-term rate, rounded to the nearest whole number percent, plus 5%. The rate
shall apply for the calendar year next following the July of the year in which
the federal short-term rate is determined in accordance with the definition for
federal short-term rate above.
      RETURN. Includes any tax return, report, reconciliation, schedule and
other document required to be filed with a Tax Administrator or municipal
corporation by a taxpayer, employer, any agent of the employer, or any other
payer pursuant to applicable law, including at any time before January 1, 2016.
      UNPAID ESTIMATED INCOME TAX. Estimated income tax due but not paid by the
date the tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      UNPAID INCOME TAX. Income tax due but not paid by the date the income tax
is required to be paid under applicable law.
      UNPAID WITHHOLDING TAX. Withholding tax due but not paid by the date the
withholding tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      WITHHOLDING TAX. Includes amounts an employer, any agent of an employer
or any other payer did not withhold in whole or in part from an employee’s
qualifying wages, but that, under applicable law, the employer, agent or other
payer is required to withhold from an employee’s qualifying wages.
   (B)   (1)   This section shall apply to the following:
         (a)   Any return required to be filed under applicable law for taxable
years beginning on or after January 1, 2016; and
         (b)   Income tax, estimated income tax and withholding tax required to
be paid or remitted to the municipality on or after January 1, 2016 for taxable
years beginning on or after January 1, 2016.
      (2)   This section does not apply to returns required to be filed or
payments required to be made before January 1, 2016, regardless of the filing
or payment date. Returns required to be filed or payments required to be made
before January 1, 2016, but filed or paid after that date shall be subject to
the ordinances or rules, as adopted from time to time before January 1, 2016 of
this municipality.
   (C)   The municipality shall impose on a taxpayer, employer, any agent of
the employer and any other payer, and will attempt to collect, the interest
amounts and penalties prescribed in this section when the taxpayer, employer,
any agent of the employer or any other payer for any reason fails, in whole or
in part, to make to the municipality timely and full payment or remittance of
income tax, estimated income tax, or withholding tax or to file timely with the
municipality any return required to be filed.
      (1)   Interest shall be imposed at the rate defined as “interest rate as
described in division (A) of this section”, per annum, on all unpaid income
tax, unpaid estimated income tax and unpaid withholding tax. This imposition of
interest shall be assessed per month, or fraction of a month.
      (2)   With respect to unpaid income tax and unpaid estimated income tax,
a penalty equal to 15% of the amount not timely paid shall be imposed.
      (3)   With respect to any unpaid withholding tax, a penalty equal to 50%
of the amount not timely paid shall be imposed.
      (4)   With respect to returns other than estimated income tax returns,
the municipality shall impose a monthly penalty of $25 for each failure to
timely file each return, regardless of the liability shown thereon for each
month, or any fraction thereof, during which the return remains unfiled
regardless of the liability shown thereon. The penalty shall not exceed a total
of $150 in assessed penalty for each failure to timely file a return.
   (D)   With respect to income taxes, estimated income taxes, withholding
taxes and returns, the municipality shall not impose, seek to collect or
collect any penalty, amount of interest, charges or additional fees not
described in this section.
   (E)   With respect to income taxes, estimated income taxes, withholding
taxes and returns, the municipality shall not refund or credit any penalty,
amount of interest, charges or additional fees that were properly imposed or
collected before January 1, 2016.
   (F)   The Tax Administrator may, in the Tax Administrator’s sole discretion,
abate or partially abate penalties or interest imposed under this section when
the Tax Administrator deems such abatement or partial abatement to be
appropriate. Such abatement or partial abatement shall be properly documented
and maintained on the record of the taxpayer who received benefit of such
abatement or partial abatement.
   (G)   The municipality may impose on the taxpayer, employer, any agent of
the employer or any other payer the municipality’s post-judgment collection
costs and fees, including attorney’s fees.
(Ord. 18-15, passed 11-2-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Interest and penalties, see R.C. § 718.27
§ 37.065 AUDIT.
   (A)   At or before the commencement of an audit, as defined in §
37.057, the Tax Administrator shall provide to the taxpayer a written
description of the roles of the Tax Administrator and of the taxpayer during an
audit and a statement of the taxpayer’s rights, including any right to obtain a
refund of an overpayment of tax. At or before the commencement of an audit, the
Tax Administrator shall inform the taxpayer when the audit is considered to
have commenced.
   (B)   Except in cases involving suspected criminal activity, the Tax
Administrator shall conduct an audit of a taxpayer during regular business
hours and after providing reasonable notice to the taxpayer. A taxpayer who is
unable to comply with a proposed time for an audit on the grounds that the
proposed time would cause inconvenience or hardship must offer reasonable
alternative dates for the audit.
   (C)   (1)   At all stages of an audit by the Tax Administrator, a taxpayer
is entitled to be assisted or represented by an attorney, accountant,
bookkeeper or other tax practitioner. The Tax Administrator shall prescribe a
form by which a taxpayer may designate such a person to assist or represent the
taxpayer in the conduct of any proceedings resulting from actions by the Tax
Administrator. If a taxpayer has not submitted such a form, the Tax
Administrator may accept other evidence, as the Tax Administrator considers
appropriate, that a person is the authorized representative of a taxpayer.
      (2)   A taxpayer may refuse to answer any questions asked by the person
conducting an audit until the taxpayer has an opportunity to consult with the
taxpayer’s attorney, accountant, bookkeeper or other tax practitioner. This
division (C) does not authorize the practice of law by a person who is not an
attorney.
   (D)   A taxpayer may record, electronically or otherwise, the audit
examination.
   (E)   The failure of the Tax Administrator to comply with a provision of
this section shall neither excuse a taxpayer from payment of any taxes owed by
the taxpayer nor cure any procedural defect in a taxpayer’s case.
   (F)   If the Tax Administrator fails to substantially comply with the
provisions of this section, the Tax Administrator, upon application by the
taxpayer, shall excuse the taxpayer from penalties and interest arising from
the audit.
(Ord. 18-15, passed 11-2-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Audits, see R.C. § 718.36
§ 37.066 ROUNDING.
   A person may round to the nearest whole dollar all amounts the person is
required to enter on any return, report, voucher or other document required
under this subchapter. Any fractional part of a dollar that equals or exceeds
$0.50 shall be rounded to the next whole dollar, and any fractional part of a
dollar that is less than $0.50 shall be dropped, rounding down to the nearest
whole dollar. If a person chooses to round amounts entered on a document, the
person shall round all amounts entered on the document.
(Ord. 18-15, passed 11-2-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Rounding of amounts, see R.C. § 718.25
§ 37.067 AUTHORITY AND POWERS OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Authority of Tax Administrator; administrative powers of the Tax
Administrator. The Tax Administrator has the authority to perform all duties
and functions necessary and appropriate to implement the provisions of this
subchapter, including without limitation:
      (1)   Exercise all powers whatsoever of an inquisitorial nature as
provided by law, including, the right to inspect books, accounts, records,
memorandums, and federal and state income tax returns, to examine persons under
oath, to issue orders or subpoenas for the production of books, accounts,
papers, records, documents and testimony, to take depositions, to apply to a
court for attachment proceedings as for contempt, to approve vouchers for the
fees of officers and witnesses, and to administer oaths; provided that the
powers referred to in this division (A)(1) shall be exercised by the Tax
Administrator only in connection with the performance of the duties
respectively assigned to the Tax Administrator under a municipal corporation
income tax ordinance or resolution adopted in accordance with this subchapter;
      (2)   Appoint agents and prescribe their powers and duties;
      (3)   Confer and meet with officers of other municipal corporations and
states and officers of the United States on any matters pertaining to their
respective official duties as provided by law;
      (4)   Exercise the authority provided by law, including orders from
bankruptcy courts, relative to remitting or refunding taxes, including
penalties and interest thereon, illegally or erroneously imposed or collected,
or for any other reason overpaid, and, in addition, the Tax Administrator may
investigate any claim of overpayment and make a written statement of the Tax
Administrator’s findings, and, if the Tax Administrator finds that there has
been an overpayment, approve and issue a refund payable to the taxpayer, the
taxpayer’s assigns or legal representative as provided in this subchapter;
      (5)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to consenting to
the compromise and settlement of tax claims;
      (6)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to the use of
alternative apportionment methods by taxpayers in accordance with §
37.060(B);
      (7)   Make all tax findings, determinations, computations, assessments
and orders the Tax Administrator is by law authorized and required to make and,
pursuant to time limitations provided by law, on the Tax Administrator’s own
motion, review, redetermine or correct any tax findings, determinations,
computations, assessments or orders the Tax Administrator has made, but the Tax
Administrator shall not review, redetermine or correct any tax finding,
determination, computation, assessment or order which the Tax Administrator has
made for which an appeal has been filed with the Local Board of Tax Review or
other appropriate tribunal, unless such appeal or application is withdrawn by
the appellant or applicant, is dismissed or is otherwise final;
      (8)   Destroy any or all returns or other tax documents in the manner
authorized by law; and
      (9)   Enter into an agreement with a taxpayer to simplify the withholding
obligations described in §
37.059(A).
   (B)   Authority of Tax Administrator; compromise of claim and payment over
time.
      (1)   As used in this division (B), CLAIM means a claim for an amount
payable to the municipality that arises pursuant to the municipal income tax
imposed in accordance with this subchapter.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator may do either of the following if such action
is in the best interests of the municipality:
         (a)   Compromise a claim; or
         (b)   Extend for a reasonable period the time for payment of a claim
by agreeing to accept monthly or other periodic payments, upon such terms and
conditions as the Tax Administrator may require.
      (3)   The Tax Administrator’s rejection of a compromise or payment-over-
time agreement proposed by a person with respect to a claim shall not be
appealable.
      (4)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a claim
shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of only the parties to the
compromise or agreement, and shall not extinguish or otherwise affect the
liability of any other person.
      (5)   (a)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a
claim shall be void if the taxpayer defaults under the compromise or agreement
or if the compromise or agreement was obtained by fraud or by misrepresentation
of a material fact. Any amount that was due before the compromise or agreement
and that is unpaid shall remain due, and any penalties or interest that would
have accrued in the absence of the compromise or agreement shall continue to
accrue and be due.
         (b)   The Tax Administrator shall have sole discretion to determine
whether or not penalty, interest, charges or applicable fees will be assessed
through the duration of any compromise or payment- over-time agreement.
      (6)   The Tax Administrator may require that the taxpayer provide
detailed financial documentation and information, in order to determine whether
or not a payment-over-time agreement wilt be authorized. The taxpayer’s failure
to provide the necessary and required information by the Tax Administrator
shall preclude consideration of a payment-over-time agreement.
   (C)   Authority of Tax Administrator; right to examine.
      (1)   The Tax Administrator, or any authorized agent or employee thereof
may examine the books, papers, records, and federal and state income tax
returns of any employer, taxpayer or other person that is subject to, or that
the Tax Administrator believes is subject to, the provisions of this subchapter
for the purpose of verifying the accuracy of any return made or, if no return
was filed, to ascertain the tax due under this subchapter. Upon written request
by the Tax Administrator or a duly authorized agent or employee thereof, every
employer, taxpayer or other person subject to this section is required to
furnish the opportunity for the Tax Administrator, authorized agent or employee
to investigate and examine such books, papers, records and federal and state
income tax returns at a reasonable time and place designated in the request.
      (2)   The records and other documents of any taxpayer, employer or other
person that is subject to, or that a Tax Administrator believes is subject to,
the provisions of this subchapter shall be open to the Tax Administrator’s
inspection during business hours and shall be preserved for a period of six
years following the end of the taxable year to which the records or documents
relate, unless the Tax Administrator, in writing, consents to their destruction
within that period, or by order requires that they be kept longer. The Tax
Administrator of a municipal corporation may require any person, by notice
served on that person, to keep such records as the Tax Administrator determines
necessary to show whether or not that person is liable, and the extent of such
liability, for the income tax levied by the municipality or for the withholding
of such tax.
      (3)   The Tax Administrator may examine under oath any person that the
Tax Administrator reasonably believes has knowledge concerning any income that
was or would have been returned for taxation or any transaction tending to
affect such income. The Tax Administrator may, for this purpose, compel any
such person to attend a hearing or examination and to produce any books,
papers, records, and federal and state income tax returns in such person’s
possession or control. The person may be assisted or represented by an
attorney, accountant, bookkeeper or other tax practitioner at any such hearing
or examination. This division (C)(3) does not authorize the practice of law by
a person who is not an attorney.
      (4)   No person issued written notice by the Tax Administrator compelling
attendance at a hearing or examination or the production of books, papers,
records or federal and state income tax returns under this section shall fail
to comply.
   (D)   Authority of Tax Administrator; requiring identifying information.
      (1)   The Tax Administrator may require any person filing a tax document
with the Tax Administrator to provide identifying information, which may
include the person’s Social Security number, federal employer identification
number or other identification number requested by the Tax Administrator. A
person required by the Tax Administrator to provide identifying information
that has experienced any change with respect to that information shall notify
the Tax Administrator of the change before, or upon, filing the next tax
document requiring the identifying information.
      (2)   (a)   If the Tax Administrator makes a request for identifying
information and the Tax Administrator does not receive valid identifying
information within 30 days of making the request, nothing in this subchapter
prohibits the Tax Administrator from imposing a penalty upon the person to whom
the request was directed pursuant to §
37.064, in addition to any applicable penalty described in §
37.999.
         (b)   If a person required by the Tax Administrator to provide
identifying information does not notify the Tax Administrator of a change with
respect to that information as required under division (D)(1) above within 30
days after filing the next tax document requiring such identifying information,
nothing in this subchapter prohibits the Tax Administrator from imposing a
penalty pursuant to §
37.064.
         (c)   The penalties provided for under divisions (D)(2)(a) and (D)(2)
(b) above may be billed and imposed in the same manner as the tax or fee with
respect to which the identifying information is sought and are in addition to
any applicable criminal penalties described in §
37.999 for a violation of §
37.069 and any other penalties that may be imposed by the Tax Administrator by
law.
(Ord. 18-15, passed 11-2-2015) Penalty, see §
37.999
Statutory reference:
   Accuracy of returns; verification, see R.C. § 718.23
   Administration of claims, see R.C. § 718.28
   Authority of Tax Administrator, see R.C. § 718.24
   Identification information, see R.C. § 718.26
§ 37.068 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   Any information gained as a result of returns, investigations,
hearings or verifications required or authorized by R.C. Chapter 718 or by the
charter or ordinance of the municipality is confidential, and no person shall
access or disclose such information except in accordance with a proper judicial
order or in connection with the performance of that person’s official duties or
the official business of the municipality as authorized by R.C. Chapter 718 or
the charter or ordinance authorizing the levy. The Tax Administrator of the
municipality or a designee thereof may furnish copies of returns filed or
otherwise received under this subchapter and other related tax information to
the Internal Revenue Service, the State Tax Commissioner and Tax Administrators
of other municipal corporations.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit the municipality from publishing or
disclosing statistics in a form that does not disclose information with respect
to particular taxpayers.
(Ord. 18-15, passed 11-2-2015) Penalty, see §
37.999
Statutory reference:
   Tax information confidential, see R.C. § 718.13
§ 37.069 FRAUD.
   No person shall knowingly make, present, aid or assist in the preparation or
presentation of a false or fraudulent report, return, schedule, statement,
claim or document authorized or required by municipal corporation ordinance or
state law to be filed with the Tax Administrator, or knowingly procure, counsel
or advise the preparation or presentation of such report, return, schedule,
statement, claim or document, or knowingly change, alter or amend, or knowingly
procure, counsel or advise such change, alteration or amendment of the records
upon which such report, return, schedule, statement, claim or document is based
with intent to defraud the municipality or the Tax Administrator.
(Ord. 18-15, passed 11-2-2015) Penalty, see §
37.999
Statutory reference:
   Fraud, see R.C. § 718.35
§ 37.070 OPINION OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   An OPINION OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR means an opinion issued under this
section with respect to prospective municipal income tax liability. It does not
include ordinary correspondence of the Tax Administrator.
   (B)   A taxpayer may submit a written request for an opinion of the Tax
Administrator as to whether or how certain income, source of income, or a
certain activity or transaction will be taxed. The written response of the Tax
Administrator shall be an “opinion of the Tax Administrator” and shall bind the
Tax Administrator, in accordance with divisions (C), (G) and (H) below,
provided all of the following conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   The taxpayer’s request fully and accurately describes the specific
facts or circumstances relevant to a determination of the taxability of the
income, source of income, activity or transaction, and, if an activity or
transaction, all parties involved in the activity or transaction are clearly
identified by name, location or other pertinent facts;
      (2)   The request relates to a tax imposed by the municipality in
accordance with this subchapter; and
      (3)   The Tax Administrator’s response is signed by the Tax Administrator
and designated as an “opinion of the Tax Administrator”.
   (C)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator shall remain in effect and shall
protect the taxpayer for whom the opinion was prepared and who reasonably
relies on it from liability for any taxes, penalty or interest otherwise
chargeable on the activity or transaction specifically held by the Tax
Administrator’s opinion to be taxable in a particular manner or not to be
subject to taxation for any taxable years that may be specified in the opinion,
or until the earliest of the following dates:
      (1)   The effective date of a written revocation by the Tax Administrator
sent to the taxpayer by certified mail, return receipt requested. The effective
date of the revocation shall be the taxpayer’s date of receipt or one year
after the issuance of the opinion, whichever is later;
      (2)   The effective date of any amendment or enactment of a relevant
section of the Ohio Revised Code, uncodified state law or the municipality’s
income tax ordinance that would substantially change the analysis and
conclusion of the opinion of the Tax Administrator;
      (3)   The date on which a court issues an opinion establishing or
changing relevant case law with respect to the Ohio Revised Code, uncodified
state law or the municipality’s income tax ordinance;
      (4)   If the opinion of the Tax Administrator was based on the
interpretation of federal law, the effective date of any change in the relevant
federal statutes or regulations, or the date on which a court issues an opinion
establishing or changing relevant case law with respect to federal statutes or
regulations;
      (5)   The effective date of any change in the taxpayer’s material facts
or circumstances; or
      (6)   The effective date of the expiration of the opinion, if specified
in the opinion.
   (D)   (1)   A taxpayer is not relieved of tax liability for any activity or
transaction related to a request for an opinion that contained any
misrepresentation or omission of one or more material facts.
      (2)   If the taxpayer knowingly has misrepresented the pertinent facts or
omitted material facts with intent to defraud the municipality in order to
obtain a more favorable opinion, the taxpayer may be in violation of §
37.069.
   (E)   If a Tax Administrator provides written advice under this section, the
opinion shall include a statement that:
      (1)   The tax consequences stated in the opinion may be subject to change
for any of the reasons stated in division (C) above; and
      (2)   It is the duty of the taxpayer to be aware of such changes.
   (F)   A Tax Administrator may refuse to offer an opinion on any request
received under this section.
   (G)   This section binds a Tax Administrator only with respect to opinions
of the Tax Administrator issued on or after January 1, 2016.
   (H)   An opinion of a Tax Administrator binds that Tax Administrator only
with respect to the taxpayer for whom the opinion was prepared and does not
bind the Tax Administrator of any other municipal corporation.
   (I)   A Tax Administrator shall make available the text of all opinions
issued under this section, except those opinions prepared for a taxpayer who
has requested that the text of the opinion remain confidential. In no event
shall the text of an opinion be made available until the Tax Administrator has
removed all information that identifies the taxpayer and any other parties
involved in the activity or transaction.
   (J)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator issued under this section or a
refusal to offer an opinion under division (F) above may not be appealed.
(Ord. 18-15, passed 11-2-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Opinion of Tax Administrator; request, see R.C. § 718.38
§ 37.071 ASSESSMENT; APPEAL BASED ON PRESUMPTION OF DELIVERY.
   (A)   (1)   The Tax Administrator shall serve an assessment either by
personal service, by certified mail, or by a delivery service authorized under
R.C. § 5703.056.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator may deliver the assessment through
alternative means as provided in this section, including, but not limited to,
delivery by secure electronic mail. Such alternative delivery method must be
authorized by the person subject to the assessment.
      (3)   Once service of the assessment has been made by the Tax
Administrator or other municipal official, or the designee of either, the
person to whom the assessment is directed may protest the ruling of that
assessment by filing an appeal with the Local Board of Tax Review within 60
days after the receipt of service. The delivery of an assessment of the Tax
Administrator as prescribed in R.C. § 718.18 is prima facie evidence that
delivery is complete and that the assessment is served.
   (B)   (1)   A person may challenge the presumption of delivery and service
as set forth in this section. A person disputing the presumption of delivery
and service under this section bears the burden of proving by a preponderance
of the evidence that the address to which the assessment was sent was not an
address with which the person was associated at the time the Tax Administrator
originally mailed the assessment by certified mail. For the purposes of this
section, a person is associated with an address at the time the Tax
Administrator originally mailed the assessment if, at that time, the person was
residing, receiving legal documents, or conducting business at the address; or
if, before that time, the person had conducted business at the address and,
when the assessment was mailed, the person’s agent or the person’s affiliate
was conducting business at the address. For the purposes of this section, a
person’s affiliate is any other person that, at the time the assessment was
mailed, owned or controlled at least 20%, as determined by voting rights, of
the addressee’s business.
      (2)   If a person elects to appeal an assessment on the basis described
in division (B)(1) above, and if that assessment is subject to collection and
is not otherwise appealable, the person must do so within 60 days after the
initial contact by the Tax Administrator or other municipal official, or the
designee of either, with the person. Nothing in this (B)(2) prevents the Tax
Administrator or other official from entering into a compromise with the person
if the person does not actually file such an appeal with the Local Board of Tax
Review.
(Ord. 18-15, passed 11-2-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Service of assessment; presumption, see R.C. § 718.18
§ 37.072 LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW; APPEAL TO LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW.
   (A)   (1)   The legislative authority of the municipality shall maintain a
Local Board of Tax Review to hear appeals as provided in R.C. Chapter 718.
      (2)   (a)   The Local Board of Tax Review shall consist of three members.
         (b)   Two members shall be appointed by the legislative authority of
the municipality, and may not be employees, elected officials or contractors
with the municipality at any time during their term or in the five years
immediately preceding the date of appointment. One member shall be appointed by
the top administrative official of the municipality. This member may be an
employee of the municipality, but may not be the Director of Finance or
equivalent officer, or the Tax Administrator or other similar official or an
employee directly involved in municipal tax matters, or any direct subordinate
thereof.
      (3)   The term for members of the Local Board of Tax Review appointed by
the legislative authority of the municipality shall be two years. There is no
limit on the number of terms that a member may serve should the member be
reappointed by the legislative authority. The Board member appointed by the top
administrative official of the municipality shall serve at the discretion of
the administrative official.
      (4)   Members of the Board of Tax Review appointed by the legislative
authority may be removed by the legislative authority as set forth in R.C. §
718.11(A)(4).
      (5)   A member of the Board who, for any reason, ceases to meet the
qualifications for the position prescribed by this section shall resign
immediately by operation of law.
      (6)   A vacancy in an unexpired term shall be filled in the same manner
as the original appointment within 60 days of when the vacancy was created. Any
member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of the
term for which the member’s predecessor was appointed shall hold office for the
remainder of such term. No vacancy on the Board shall impair the power and
authority of the remaining members to exercise all the powers of the Board.
      (7)   If a member is temporarily unable to serve on the Board due to a
conflict of interest, illness, absence, or similar reason, the legislative
authority or top administrative official that appointed the member shall
appoint another individual to temporarily serve on the Board in the member’s
place. This appointment shall be subject to the same requirements and
limitations as are applicable to the appointment of the member temporarily
unable to serve.
      (8)   No member of the Local Board of Tax Review shall receive
compensation, fee or reimbursement of expenses for service on the Board.
      (9)   A member of a Local Board of Tax Review shall not be appointed to
or serve on another such Board simultaneously.
   (B)   Whenever a Tax Administrator issues an assessment, the Tax
Administrator shall notify the taxpayer in writing at the same time of the
taxpayer’s right to appeal the assessment, the manner in which the taxpayer may
appeal the assessment, and the address to which the appeal should be directed,
and to whom the appeal should be directed.
   (C)   Any person who has been issued an assessment may appeal the assessment
to the Board by filing a request with the Board. The request shall be in
writing, shall specify the reason or reasons why the assessment should be
deemed incorrect or unlawful and shall be filed within 60 days after the
taxpayer receives the assessment.
   (D)   The Local Board of Tax Review shall schedule a hearing to be held
within 60 days after receiving an appeal of an assessment under division (C)
above, unless the taxpayer requests additional time to prepare or waives a
hearing. If the taxpayer does not waive the hearing, the taxpayer may appear
before the Board and/or may be represented by an attorney at law, certified
public accountant, or other representative. The Board may allow a hearing to be
continued as jointly agreed to by the parties. In such a case, the hearing must
be completed within 120 days after the first day of the hearing unless the
parties agree otherwise.
   (E)   The Board may affirm, reverse or modify the Tax Administrator’s
assessment or any part of that assessment. The Board shall issue a final
determination on the appeal within 90 days after the Board’s final hearing on
the appeal, and send a copy of its final determination by ordinary mail to all
of the parties to the appeal within 15 days after issuing the final
determination. The taxpayer or the Tax Administrator may appeal the Board’s
final determination as provided in R.C. § 5717.011.
   (F)   The Local Board of Tax Review created pursuant to this section shall
adopt rules governing its procedures, including a schedule of related costs,
and shall keep a record of its transactions. The rules governing the Local
Board of Tax Review procedures shall be in writing, and may be amended as
needed by the Local Board of Tax Review. Such records are not public records
available for inspection under R.C. § 149.43. For this reason, any
documentation, copies of returns or reports, final determinations or working
papers for each case must be maintained in a secure location under the control
of the Tax Administrator. No member of the Local Board of Tax Review may remove
such documentation, copies of returns or reports, final determinations or
working papers from the hearing. Hearings requested by a taxpayer before a
Local Board of Tax Review created pursuant to this section are not meetings of
a public body subject to R.C. § 121.22. For this reason, such hearings shall
not be open to the public, and only those parties to the case may be present
during the hearing.
(Ord. 18-15, passed 11-2-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Local Board of Tax Review, see R.C. § 718.11
§ 37.073 ACTIONS TO RECOVER; STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   Civil actions to recover municipal income taxes and
penalties and interest on municipal income taxes shall be brought within the
latter of:
            1.   Three years after the tax was due or the return was filed,
whichever is later; or
            2.   One year after the conclusion of the qualifying deferral
period, if any.
         (b)   The time limit described in division (A)(1)(a) above may be
extended at any time if both the Tax Administrator and the employer, agent of
the employer, other payer or taxpayer consent in writing to the extension. Any
extension shall also extend for the same period of time the time limit
described in division (C) below.
      (2)   As used in this division (A), QUALIFYING DEFERRAL PERIOD means a
period of time beginning and ending as follows:
         (a)   Beginning on the date a person who is aggrieved by an assessment
files with a Local Board of Tax Review the request described in §
37.072. That date shall not be affected by any subsequent decision, finding or
holding by any administrative body or court that the Local Board of Tax Review
with which the aggrieved person filed the request did not have jurisdiction to
affirm, reverse or modify the assessment or any part of that assessment; and
         (b)   Ending the later of the sixtieth day after the date on which the
final determination of the Local Board of Tax Review becomes final or, if any
party appeals from the determination of the Local Board of Tax Review, the
sixtieth day after the date on which the final determination of the Local Board
of Tax Review is either ultimately affirmed in whole or in part or ultimately
reversed and no further appeal of either that affirmation, in whole or in part,
or that reversal is available or taken.
   (B)   Prosecutions for an offense made punishable under a resolution or
ordinance imposing an income tax shall be commenced within three years after
the commission of the offense, provided that in the case of fraud, failure to
file a return or the omission of 25% or more of income required to be reported,
prosecutions may be commenced within six years after the commission of the
offense.
   (C)   A claim for a refund of municipal income taxes shall be brought within
the time limitation provided in §
37.063(F).
   (D)   (1)   Notwithstanding the fact that an appeal is pending, the
petitioner may pay all or a portion of the assessment that is the subject of
the appeal. The acceptance of a payment by the municipality does not prejudice
any claim for refund upon final determination of the appeal.
      (2)   If upon final determination of the appeal an error in the
assessment is corrected by the Tax Administrator, upon an appeal so filed or
pursuant to a final determination of the Local Board of Tax Review created
under §
37.072, of the Ohio Board of Tax Appeals, or any court to which the decision of
the Ohio Board of Tax Appeals has been appealed, so that the amount due from
the party assessed under the corrected assessment is less than the amount paid,
there shall be issued to the appellant or to the appellant’s assigns or legal
representative a refund in the amount of the overpayment as provided by §
37.063(F), with interest on that amount as provided by this division (D).
   (E)   No civil action to recover municipal income tax or related penalties
or interest shall be brought during either of the following time periods:
      (1)   The period during which a taxpayer has a right to appeal the
imposition of that tax or interest or those penalties; or
      (2)   The period during which an appeal related to the imposition of that
tax or interest or those penalties is pending.
(Ord. 18-15, passed 11-2-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Statute of limitations, see R.C. § 718.12
§ 37.074 ADOPTION OF RULES.
   (A)   Pursuant to R.C. § 718.30, the legislative authority of the
municipality has the authority, by ordinance or resolution, to adopt rules to
administer the income tax imposed by the municipality.
   (B)   All rules adopted under this section shall be published and posted on
the internet.
(Ord. 18-15, passed 11-2-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of rules, see R.C. § 718.30
§ 37.075 COLLECTION OF TAX AFTER TERMINATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   This subchapter shall continue in full force and effect insofar as the
levy of taxes is concerned until repealed, and insofar as the collection of
taxes levied hereunder and actions and proceedings for collecting any tax so
levied or enforcing any provisions of this subchapter are concerned, it shall
continue in full force and effect until all of the taxes levied in the
aforesaid period are fully paid and any and all suits and prosecutions for the
collection of taxes or for the punishment of violations of this subchapter have
been fully terminated, subject to the limitations contained in §
37.073.
   (B)   Annual returns due for all or any part of the last effective year of
this subchapter shall be due on the date provided in §
37.063(A) as though the same were continuing.
(Ord. 18-15, passed 11-2-2015)
§ 37.076 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   If any sentence, division, section or part of this subchapter, or any tax
imposed against, or exemption from tax granted to, any taxpayer or forms of
income specified herein is found to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid,
such unconstitutionality, illegality or invalidity shall affect only such
division, sentence, section or part of this subchapter so found and shall not
affect or impair any of the remaining provisions, sentences, clauses, sections
or other parts of this subchapter. It is hereby declared to be the intention of
the legislative authority of the municipality that this subchapter would have
been adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal or invalid sentence, clause,
section or part thereof not been included in this subchapter.
(Ord. 18-15, passed 11-2-2015)
§ 37.077 INFORMATION SUBMISSION BY LANDLORDS.
   (A)   (1)   On or before March 1st of each year, all property owners who
rent or lease to tenants of residential, commercial or industrial premises,
shall file with the Income Tax Administrator, a report showing the name(s) and
address (and phone number, if available) of each such tenant who occupies
residential, commercial or industrial premises within the municipality.
      (2)   The list shall also include all name(s) and address (and phone
number, if available) of any tenant who has vacated the property in the
preceding 12 month period and must include date vacated and forwarding address.
This information may also be requested at any time under audit by the Income
Tax Administrator.
   (B)   (1)   Such report shall be in writing, and shall be delivered to the
Income Tax Administrator at the Village of Bluffton by one of the following
methods:
         (a)   Regular U.S. mail delivery;
         (b)   Delivered by electronic mail (E-mail);
         (c)   Facsimile transmission; or
         (d)   Hand delivery.
      (2)   Forms and instruction for reporting shall be made available on the
municipality's website, and or at Town Hall.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, TENANT means:
      (1)   If there is a written lease or rental agreement, the person(s) who
signed the written lease or rental agreement with the owner or their agent and
anyone occupying the same unit or structure who is over the age of 18.
      (2)   If there is an oral lease or rental agreement, the person(s) who
entered into the oral lease or rental agreement with the owner or their agent
and anyone occupying the same unit or structure who is over the age of 18.
   (D)   Failure to comply with this section will result in:
      (1)   Notification sent by regular U.S. mail to the landlord, owner or
agent requiring compliance within 30 days.
      (2)   Second notification sent by certified mail to the landlord, owner
or agent requiring compliance within 14 days.
      (3)   Third notification will be a subpoena hand delivered by a police
officer to the landlord, owner or agent to appear before the Income Tax
Administrator with the required documentation.
         (a)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any provision of this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $100.
A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
         (b)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any provision of this
section, and has a previous conviction under this chapter, is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree and shall be fined not more than $500 or
imprisoned not more than 60 days, or both, for each offense. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a violation or
noncompliance occurs or continues.
(Ord. 01-19, passed 1-28-2019)
FILING NET PROFIT TAXES
§ 37.090 COUNCIL FINDINGS.
   This Council hereby expressly finds and determines that it does not concede
the legality of H.B. 49’s municipal income tax provisions; § 803.100 of H.B.
49; R.C. § 718.04(A); or any other law that is the subject of the action
pending in Case Number 2017 CV 10258 in the Franklin County Court of Common
Pleas, and that adoption of this subchapter shall not prejudice any claims of
the village therein.
(Ord. 03-18, passed 2-26-2018)
§ 37.091 FILING NET PROFIT TAXES; ELECTION TO BE SUBJECT TO PROVISIONS OF
SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   A taxpayer may elect to be subject to §§
37.091 through
37.105 and
37.999(D) in lieu of the provisions set forth in the remainder of this chapter
(§§
37.055 through
37.076). Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, upon the
taxpayer’s election, both of the following shall apply:
      (1)   The State Tax Commissioner shall serve as the sole administrator of
the municipal net profit tax for which the taxpayer as defined in §
37.092 is liable for the term of the election; and
      (2)   The Commissioner shall administer the tax pursuant to R.C. §§
718.80 to 718.95, §§
37.091 through
37.105 and
37.999(D) and any applicable provision of R.C. Chapter 5703.
   (B)   (1)   A taxpayer shall make the initial election on or before the
first day of the third month after the beginning of the taxpayer’s taxable year
by notifying the Tax Commissioner and the village, on a form prescribed by the
Tax Commissioner.
      (2)   (a)   The election, once made by the taxpayer, applies to the
taxable year in which the election is made and to each subsequent taxable year
until the taxpayer notifies the Tax Commissioner and the village of its
termination of the election.
         (b)   A notification of termination shall be made, on a form
prescribed by the Tax Commissioner, on or before the first day of the third
month of any taxable year.
         (c)   Upon a timely and valid termination of the election, the
taxpayer is no longer subject to §§
37.091 through
37.105 and
37.999(D), and is instead subject to the provisions set forth in the remainder
of this subchapter.
   (C)   The Tax Commissioner shall enforce and administer §§
37.091 through
37.105 and
37.999(D). In addition to any other powers conferred upon the Tax Commissioner
by law, the Tax Commissioner may:
      (1)   Prescribe all forms necessary to administer those sections;
      (2)   Adopt such rules as the Tax Commissioner finds necessary to carry
out those sections; and
      (3)   Appoint and employ such personnel as are necessary to carry out the
duties imposed upon the Tax Commissioner by those sections.
   (D)   The Tax Commissioner shall not be considered a Tax Administrator, as
that term is defined in R.C. § 718.01 and §
37.057.
(Ord. 03-18, passed 2-26-2018)
§ 37.092 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   If a term used in §§
37.091 through
37.105 and
37.999(D) that is not otherwise defined in this subchapter is used in a
comparable context in both the laws of the United States relating to federal
income tax and in R.C. Title LVII and the use is not consistent, then the use
of the term in the laws of the United States relating to federal income tax
shall have control over the use of the term in R.C. Title LVII, unless the term
is defined in R.C. Chapter 5703, in which case the definition in that chapter
shall control. Any reference in this subchapter to the Internal Revenue Code
includes other laws of the United States related to federal income taxes. If a
term is defined in both this section and §
37.057, the definition in this section shall control for all uses of that term
in §§
37.091 through
37.105 and
37.999(D).
   (B)   As used in §§
37.091 through
37.105 and
37.999(D) only, the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ADJUSTED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME.
         (a)   For a person required to file as a C corporation, or for a
person that has elected to be taxed as a C corporation as described in R.C. §
718.01(D)(5) and §
37.057, means a C corporation’s federal taxable income before net operating
losses and special deductions as determined under the Internal Revenue Code,
adjusted as follows:
            1.   Deduct intangible income to the extent included in federal
taxable income. The deduction shall be allowed regardless of whether the
intangible income relates to assets used in a trade or business or assets held
for the production of income;
            2.   Add an amount equal to 5% of intangible income deducted under
division (a)1. above of this definition, but excluding that portion of
intangible income directly related to the sale, exchange or other disposition
of property described in § 1221 of the Internal Revenue Code, being 26 U.S.C. §
1221;
            3.   Add any losses allowed as a deduction in the computation of
federal taxable income if the losses directly relate to the sale, exchange or
other disposition of an asset described in §§ 1221 or 1231 of the Internal
Revenue Code;
            4.   a.   Except as provided in division 4.b. below of this
definition, deduct income and gain included in federal taxable income to the
extent the income and gain directly relate to the sale, exchange or other
disposition of an asset described in §§ 1221 or 1231 of the Internal Revenue
Code.
               b.   Division 4.a. above of this definition does not apply to
the extent the income or gain is income or gain described in §§ 1245 or 1250 of
the Internal Revenue Code.
            5.   Add taxes on or measured by net income allowed as a deduction
in the computation of federal taxable income;
            6.   In the case of a real estate investment trust or regulated
investment company, add all amounts with respect to dividends to, distributions
to or amounts set aside for or credited to the benefit of investors and allowed
as a deduction in the computation of federal taxable income;
            7.   Deduct, to the extent not otherwise deducted or excluded in
computing federal taxable income, any income derived from a transfer agreement
or from the enterprise transferred under that agreement under R.C. § 4313.02;
            8.   Deduct exempt income to the extent not otherwise deducted or
excluded in computing adjusted federal taxable income;
            9.   Deduct any net profit of a pass-through entity owned directly
or indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer’s federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that net profit in
the group’s federal taxable income in accordance with §
37.097(E)(3)(b);
            10.   Add any loss incurred by a pass-through entity owned directly
or indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer’s federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that loss in the
group’s federal taxable income in accordance with §
37.097(E)(3)(b); and
            11.   If the taxpayer is not a C corporation, is not a disregarded
entity that has made the election described in R.C. § 718.01(L)(2), and is not
a publicly traded partnership that has made the election described in R.C. §
718.01(D)(5), the taxpayer shall compute adjusted federal taxable income under
this section as if the taxpayer were a C corporation, except guaranteed
payments and other similar amounts paid or accrued to a partner, former
partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member or former member shall not be
allowed as a deductible expense unless such payments are in consideration for
the use of capital and treated as payment of interest under § 469 of the
Internal Revenue Code or United States treasury regulations. Amounts paid or
accrued to a qualified self-employed retirement plan with respect to a partner,
former partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member or former member of the
taxpayer, amounts paid or accrued to or for health insurance for a partner,
former partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member or former member, and
amounts paid or accrued to or for life insurance for a partner, former partner,
shareholder, former shareholder, member or former member shall not be allowed
as a deduction.
         (b)   Nothing in this definition shall be construed as allowing the
taxpayer to add or deduct any amount more than once or shall be construed as
allowing any taxpayer to deduct any amount paid to or accrued for purposes of
federal self-employment tax.
      ASSESSMENT. A notice of underpayment or nonpayment of a tax issued
pursuant to §
37.101.
      MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME. Income apportioned or sitused to the municipal
corporation under §
37.093, as applicable, reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward
available to the person for the municipal corporation.
      TAX RETURN or RETURN. The notifications and reports required to be filed
pursuant to §§
37.091 through
37.105 and
37.999(D) for the purpose of reporting municipal income taxes, and includes
declarations of estimated tax.
      TAXABLE YEAR. The calendar year or the taxpayer’s fiscal year ending
during the calendar year, or fractional part thereof, upon which the
calculation of the taxpayer’s adjusted federal taxable income is based pursuant
to this subchapter. If a taxpayer’s taxable year is changed for federal income
tax purposes, the taxable year for purposes of §§
37.091 through
37.105 and
37.999(D) is changed accordingly but may consist of an aggregation of more than
one taxable year for federal income tax purposes. The Tax Commissioner may
prescribe by rule an appropriate period as the TAXABLE YEAR for a taxpayer that
has had a change of its TAXABLE YEAR for federal income tax purposes, for a
taxpayer that has two or more short TAXABLE YEARS for federal income tax
purposes as the result of a change of ownership, or for a new taxpayer that
would otherwise have no TAXABLE YEAR.
      TAXPAYER. The same meaning as in R.C. § 718.01, except that TAXPAYER does
not include natural persons or entities subject to the tax imposed under R.C.
Chapter 5745. TAXPAYER may include receivers, assignees or trustees in
bankruptcy when such persons are required to assume the role of a taxpayer.
(Ord. 03-18, passed 2-26-2018)
§ 37.093 APPLICABILITY; TAXABLE SITUS; APPORTIONMENT.
   This section applies to any taxpayer that is engaged in a business or
profession in the village and that has made the election under §
37.091.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) below, net profit from a
business or profession conducted both within and without the boundaries of the
village shall be considered as having a taxable situs in the village for
purposes of municipal income taxation in the same proportion as the average
ratio of the following:
      (1)   (a)   The average original cost of the real property and tangible
personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in the business or profession
in the village during the taxable period to the average original cost of all of
the real and tangible personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in the
business or profession during the same period, wherever situated; and
         (b)   As used in division (A)(1)(a) above, tangible personal or real
property shall include property rented or leased by the taxpayer and the value
of such property shall be determined by multiplying the annual rental thereon
by eight.
      (2)   Wages, salaries and other compensation paid during the taxable
period to individuals employed in the business or profession for services
performed in the village to wages, salaries, and other compensation paid during
the same period to individuals employed in the business or profession, wherever
the individual’s services are performed, excluding compensation from which
taxes are not required to be withheld under R.C. § 718.01; and
      (3)   Total gross receipts of the business or profession from sales and
rentals made and services performed during the taxable period in the village to
total gross receipts of the business or profession during the same period from
sales, rentals and services, wherever made or performed.
   (B)   (1)   If the apportionment factors described in division (A) above do
not fairly represent the extent of a taxpayer’s business activity in the
Village, the taxpayer may request, or the Tax Commissioner may require, that
the taxpayer use, with respect to all or any portion of the income of the
taxpayer, an alternative apportionment method involving one or more of the
following:
         (a)   Separate accounting;
         (b)   The exclusion of one or more of the factors;
         (c)   The inclusion of one or more additional factors that would
provide for a more fair apportionment of the income of the taxpayer to the
municipal corporation; and
         (d)   A modification of one or more of the factors.
      (2)   A taxpayer request to use an alternative apportionment method shall
be in writing and shall accompany a tax return, timely filed appeal of an
assessment or timely filed amended tax return. The taxpayer may use the
requested alternative method unless the Tax Commissioner denies the request in
an assessment issued within the period prescribed by §
37.101(A).
      (3)   The Tax Commissioner may require a taxpayer to use an alternative
apportionment method as described in division (B)(1) above only by issuing an
assessment to the taxpayer within the period prescribed by §
37.101(A).
   (C)   As used in division (A)(2) above, WAGES, SALARIES AND OTHER
COMPENSATION includes only wages, salaries or other compensation paid to an
employee for services performed at any of the following locations:
      (1)   A location that is owned, controlled or used by, rented to or under
the possession of one of the following:
         (a)   The employer;
         (b)   A vendor, customer, client or patient of the employer, or a
related member of such a vendor, customer, client or patient; or
         (c)   A vendor, customer, client or patient of a person described in
division (C)(1)(b) above, or a related member of such a vendor, customer,
client or patient.
      (2)   Any location at which a trial, appeal, hearing, investigation,
inquiry, review, court-martial or similar administrative, judicial or
legislative matter or proceeding is being conducted, provided that the
compensation is paid for services performed for, or on behalf of, the employer
or that the employee’s presence at the location directly or indirectly benefits
the employer; and
      (3)   Any other location, if the Tax Commissioner determines that the
employer directed the employee to perform the services at the other location in
lieu of a location described in division (C)(1) or (C)(2) above solely in order
to avoid or reduce the employer’s municipal income tax liability. If the Tax
Commissioner makes such a determination, the employer may dispute the
determination by establishing, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the Tax
Commissioner’s determination was unreasonable.
   (D)   For the purposes of division (A)(3) above, receipts from sales and
rentals made and services performed shall be sitused to the village as follows.
      (1)   Gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property shall be
sitused to the village only if, regardless of where title passes, the property
meets either of the following criteria:
         (a)   The property is shipped to or delivered within the village from
a stock of goods located within the village; or
         (b)   The property is delivered within the village from a location
outside the village, provided the taxpayer is regularly engaged through its own
employees in the solicitation or promotion of sales within the village and the
sales result from such solicitation or promotion.
      (2)   Gross receipts from the sale of services shall be sitused to the
village to the extent that such services are performed in the village.
      (3)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from the sale of
real property located in the village shall be sitused to the village.
      (4)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from rents and
royalties from real property located in the village shall be sitused to the
village.
      (5)   Gross receipts from rents and royalties from tangible personal
property shall be sitused to the village based upon the extent to which the
tangible personal property is used in the village.
   (E)   Commissions received by a real estate agent or broker relating to the
sale, purchase, or lease of real estate shall be sitused to the village in
which the real estate is located. Net profit reported by the real estate agent
or broker shall be allocated to the village based upon the ratio of the
commissions the agent or broker received from the sale, purchase or lease of
real estate located in the village to the commissions received from the sale,
purchase or lease of real estate everywhere in the taxable year.
   (F)   (1)   If, in computing a taxpayer’s adjusted federal taxable income,
the taxpayer deducted any amount with respect to a stock option granted to an
employee, and if the employee is not required to include in village employee’s
income any such amount or a portion thereof because it is exempted from
taxation under §§
37.055 through
37.076, the taxpayer shall add the amount that is exempt from taxation to the
taxpayer’s net profit that was apportioned to the village. In no case shall a
taxpayer be required to add to its net profit that was apportioned to the
village any amount other than the amount upon which the employee would be
required to pay tax were the amount related to the stock option not exempted
from taxation.
      (2)   This division (F) applies solely for the purpose of making an
adjustment to the amount of a taxpayer’s net profit that was apportioned to the
village under this section.
   (G)   When calculating the ratios described in division (A) above for the
purposes of that division or division (B) above, the owner of a disregarded
entity shall include in the owner’s ratios the property, payroll and gross
receipts of such disregarded entity.
(Ord. 03-18, passed 2-26-2018)
§ 37.094 INFORMATION PROVIDED TO TAX ADMINISTRATOR; CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   Any information gained as a result of returns, investigations,
hearings or verifications required or authorized by §§
37.091 through
37.105 and
37.999(D) is confidential, and no person shall disclose such information,
except for official purposes, in accordance with a proper judicial order, or as
provided in R.C. §§ 4123.271 or 5703.21. The Tax Commissioner may furnish the
Internal Revenue Service with copies of returns filed. This section does not
prohibit the publication of statistics in a form which does not disclose
information with respect to particular taxpayers.
   (B)   In May and November of each year, the Tax Commissioner shall provide
the Village Tax Administrator with the following information for every taxpayer
that filed tax returns with the Commissioner under §§
37.091 through
37.105 and
37.999(D) and that had municipal taxable income apportionable to the village
under this subchapter for any prior year:
      (1)   The taxpayer’s name, address and federal employer identification
number;
      (2)   The taxpayer’s apportionment ratio for, and amount of municipal
taxable income apportionable to, the village pursuant to §
37.093;
      (3)   The amount of any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward utilized
by the taxpayer;
      (4)   Whether the taxpayer requested that any overpayment be carried
forward to a future taxable year; and
      (5)   The amount of any credit claimed under R.C. § 718.94.
   (C)   Not later than 30 days after each distribution made to municipal
corporations under R.C. § 718.83, the Tax Commissioner shall provide to the
village a report stating the name and federal identification number of every
taxpayer that made estimated payments that are attributable to the village and
the amount of each such taxpayer’s estimated payment.
   (D)   The information described under divisions (B) and (C) above shall be
provided to the individual or individuals designated by the Village Tax
Administrator under R.C. § 718.83.
   (E)   (1)   The village expects that the Tax Commissioner will, pursuant to
R.C. § 718.84(E), provide tax returns and other information it receives in the
performance of its administration of the municipal net profits tax for
taxpayers making the election provided in §
37.091. The Tax Administrator shall review these returns and information, as
well as the information received pursuant to divisions (B) and (C) above, and
has discretion to refer any taxpayer for audit by the Tax Commissioner. Such
referral shall be made on a form prescribed by the Commissioner and shall
include any information that forms the basis for the referral.
      (2)   If the Tax Commissioner declines to audit a taxpayer referred by
the Tax Administrator under this section, the village reserves its right to
pursue any and all remedies, whether at law or in equity, to ensure that the
correct tax liability has been calculated and paid by the taxpayer.
(Ord. 03-18, passed 2-26-2018) Penalty, see §
37.999
§ 37.095 FILING OF ANNUAL RETURN; REMITTANCE; DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   For each taxable year, every taxpayer shall file an annual
return. Such return, along with the amount of tax shown to be due on the return
less the amount paid for the taxable year under §
37.099, shall be submitted to the Tax Commissioner, on a form and in the manner
prescribed by the Commissioner, on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth
month following the end of the taxpayer’s taxable year.
      (2)   If a taxpayer has multiple taxable years ending within one calendar
year, the taxpayer shall aggregate the facts and figures necessary to compute
the tax due under this subchapter, in accordance with §§
37.092,
37.093, and, if applicable,
37.097 of this subchapter onto its annual return.
      (3)   The remittance shall be made payable to the Treasurer of state and
in the form prescribed by the Tax Commissioner. If the amount payable with the
tax return is $10 or less, no remittance is required.
   (B)   (1)   Each return required to be filed under this section shall
contain the signature of the taxpayer or the taxpayer’s duly authorized agent
and of the person who prepared the return for the taxpayer, and shall include
the taxpayer’s identification number. Each return shall be verified by a
declaration under penalty of perjury.
      (2)   (a)   The Tax Commissioner may require a taxpayer to include, with
each annual tax return, amended return, or request for refund filed with the
Commissioner under §§
37.091 through
37.105 and 37.999(D), copies of any relevant documents or other information.
         (b)   A taxpayer that files an annual tax return electronically
through the Ohio Business Gateway or in another manner as prescribed by the Tax
Commissioner shall either submit the documents required under this section
electronically as prescribed at the time of filing or, if electronic submission
is not available, mail the documents to the Tax Commissioner. The Department of
Taxation shall publish a method of electronically submitting the documents
required under this section on or before January 1, 2019.
      (3)   After a taxpayer files a tax return, the Tax Commissioner may
request, and the taxpayer shall provide, any information, statements or
documents required to determine and verify the taxpayer’s municipal income tax.
   (D)   (1)   (a)   Any taxpayer that has duly requested an automatic
extension for filing the taxpayer’s federal income tax return shall
automatically receive an extension for the filing of a tax return with the
Commissioner under this section. The extended due date of the return shall be
the fifteenth day of the tenth month after the last day of the taxable year to
which the return relates.
         (b)   A taxpayer that has not requested or received a six-month
extension for filing the taxpayer’s federal income tax return may request that
the Commissioner grant the taxpayer a six-month extension of the date for
filing the taxpayer’s municipal income tax return. If the Commissioner receives
the request on or before the date the municipal income tax return is due, the
Commissioner shall grant the taxpayer’s extension request.
         (c)   An extension of time to file under division (D)(1) above is not
an extension of the time to pay any tax due unless the Tax Commissioner grants
an extension of that date.
      (2)   If the Commissioner considers it necessary in order to ensure
payment of a tax imposed in accordance with of R.C. § 718.04, the Commissioner
may require taxpayers to file returns and make payments otherwise than as
provided in this section, including taxpayers not otherwise required to file
annual returns.
   (E)   Each return required to be filed in accordance with this section shall
include a box that the taxpayer may check to authorize another person,
including a tax return preparer who prepared the return, to communicate with
the Tax Commissioner about matters pertaining to the return. The return or
instructions accompanying the return shall indicate that by checking the box
the taxpayer authorizes the Commissioner to contact the preparer or other
person concerning questions that arise during the examination or other review
of the return and authorizes the preparer or other person only to provide the
Commissioner with information that is missing from the return, to contact the
Commissioner for information about the examination or other review of the
return or the status of the taxpayer’s refund or payments, and to respond to
notices about mathematical errors, offsets or return preparation that the
taxpayer has received from the Commissioner and has shown to the preparer or
other person.
   (F)   When income tax returns or other documents require the signature of a
tax return preparer, the Tax Commissioner shall accept a facsimile or
electronic version of such a signature in lieu of a manual signature.
(Ord. 03-18, passed 2-26-2018)
§ 37.096 ELECTRONIC FILING.
   (A)   All taxpayers that have made the election allowed under §
37.091 shall file any tax return or extension for filing a tax return, and
shall make payment of amounts shown to be due on such returns, electronically,
either through the Ohio Business Gateway or in another manner as prescribed by
the Tax Commissioner.
   (B)   A taxpayer may apply to the Commissioner, on a form prescribed by the
Commissioner, to be excused from the requirement to file returns and make
payments electronically. For good cause shown, the Commissioner may excuse the
applicant from the requirement and permit the applicant to file the returns or
make the payments by nonelectronic means.
   (C)   The Tax Commissioner may adopt rules establishing the following:
      (1)   The format of documents to be used by taxpayers to file returns and
make payments by electronic means; and
      (2)   The information taxpayers must submit when filing tax returns by
electronic means.
(Ord. 03-18, passed 2-26-2018)
§ 37.097 CONSOLIDATED RETURNS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AFFILIATED GROUP OF CORPORATIONS. An affiliated group as defined in §
1504 of the Internal Revenue Code, being 26 U.S.C. § 1504, except that, if such
a group includes at least one incumbent local exchange carrier that is
primarily engaged in the business of providing local exchange telephone service
in this state, the affiliated group shall not include any incumbent local
exchange carrier that would otherwise be included in the group.
      CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL INCOME TAX RETURN. A consolidated return filed for
federal income tax purposes pursuant to § 1501 of the Internal Revenue Code.
      CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME. The consolidated taxable income of
an affiliated group of corporations, as computed for the purposes of filing a
consolidated federal income tax return, before consideration of net operating
losses or special deductions. CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME does not
include income or loss of an incumbent local exchange carrier that is excluded
from the affiliated group under the definition for affiliated group of
corporations above.
      INCUMBENT LOCAL EXCHANGE CARRIER. The same meaning as in R.C. § 4927.01.
      LOCAL EXCHANGE TELEPHONE SERVICE. The same meaning as in R.C. § 5727.01.
   (B)   (1)   A taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of
corporations may elect to file a consolidated tax return for a taxable year if
at least one member of the affiliated group of corporations is subject to
municipal income tax in that taxable year and if the affiliated group of
corporations filed a consolidated federal income tax return with respect to
that taxable year. The election is binding for a five-year period beginning
with the first taxable year of the initial election unless a change in the
reporting method is required under federal law. The election continues to be
binding for each subsequent five-year period unless the taxpayer elects to
discontinue filing consolidated tax returns under division (B)(2) below or a
taxpayer receives permission from the Tax Commissioner. The Tax Commissioner
shall approve such a request for good cause shown.
      (2)   An election to discontinue filing consolidated tax returns under
this section must be made on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month of
the year following the last year of a five-year consolidated tax return
election period in effect under division (B)(1) above. The election to
discontinue filing a consolidated tax return is binding for a five-year period
beginning with the first taxable year of the election.
      (3)   An election made under divisions (B)(1) or (B)(2) above is binding
on all members of the affiliated group of corporations subject to a municipal
income tax.
      (4)   When a taxpayer makes the election allowed under §
37.091, a valid election made by the taxpayer under §
37.060(C)(2)(a) or (C)(2)(b) of is binding upon the Tax Commissioner for the
remainder of the five-year period.
      (5)   When an election made under §
37.091 is terminated, a valid election made under this section is binding upon
the Tax Administrator for the remainder of the five-year period.
   (C)   A taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations
that filed a consolidated federal income tax return for a taxable year shall
file a consolidated tax return for that taxable year if the Tax Commissioner
determines, by a preponderance of the evidence, that intercompany transactions
have not been conducted at arm’s length and that there has been a distortive
shifting of income or expenses with regard to allocation of net profits to a
municipal corporation. A taxpayer that is required to file a consolidated tax
return for a taxable year shall file a consolidated tax return for all
subsequent taxable years unless the taxpayer requests and receives written
permission from the Commissioner to file a separate return or a taxpayer has
experienced a change in circumstances.
   (D)   A taxpayer shall prepare a consolidated tax return in the same manner
as is required under the United States Department of Treasury regulations that
prescribe procedures for the preparation of the consolidated federal income tax
return required to be filed by the common parent of the affiliated group of
which the taxpayer is a member.
   (E)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (E)(2), (E)(3) and (E)
(4) below, corporations that file a consolidated tax return shall compute
adjusted federal taxable income, as defined in §
37.092, by substituting “consolidated federal taxable income” for “federal
taxable income” wherever “federal taxable income” appears in that division and
by substituting “an affiliated group of corporation’s” for “a C corporation’s”
wherever “a C corporation’s” appears in that division.
      (2)   No corporation filing a consolidated tax return shall make any
adjustment otherwise required under §
37.092(B) to the extent that the item of income or deduction otherwise subject
to the adjustment has been eliminated or consolidated in the computation of
consolidated federal taxable income.
      (3)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having at least
80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group’s consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, the
corporation filing a consolidated tax return shall do one of the following with
respect to that pass-through entity’s net profit or loss for that taxable year:
         (a)   Exclude the pass-through entity’s net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in §
37.093, exclude the property, payroll and gross receipts of the pass-through
entity in the computation of the affiliated group’s net profit sitused to a
municipal corporation. If the entity’s net profit or loss is so excluded, the
entity shall be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis of the
entity’s net profits that would otherwise be included in the consolidated
federal taxable income of the affiliated group; or
         (b)   Include the pass-through entity’s net profit or loss in the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in §
37.093, include the property, payroll, and gross receipts of the pass-through
entity in the computation of the affiliated group’s net profit sitused to a
municipal corporation. If the entity’s net profit or loss is so included, the
entity shall not be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis of
the entity’s net profits that are included in the consolidated federal taxable
income of the affiliated group.
      (4)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having less than
80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group’s consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, all
of the following shall apply:
         (a)   The corporation filing the consolidated tax return shall exclude
the pass-through entity’s net profit or loss from the consolidated federal
taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the purposes of making the
computations required in §
37.093, exclude the property, payroll, and gross receipts of the pass-through
entity in the computation of the affiliated group’s net profit sitused to a
municipal corporation; and
         (b)   The pass-through entity shall be subject to municipal income
taxation as a separate taxpayer in accordance with §§
37.091 through
37.105 and
37.999(D) on the basis of the entity’s net profits that would otherwise be
included in the consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
   (F)   Corporations filing a consolidated tax return shall make the
computations required under §
37.093 by substituting “consolidated federal taxable income attributable to”
for “net profit from” wherever “net profit from” appears in that section and by
substituting “affiliated group of corporations” for “taxpayer” wherever
“taxpayer” appears in that section.
   (G)   Each corporation filing a consolidated tax return is jointly and
severally liable for any tax, interest, penalties, fines, charges or other
amounts applicable under §§
37.091 through
37.105 and
37.999(D) or R.C. Chapter 5703 to the corporation, an affiliated group of which
the corporation is a member for any portion of the taxable year, or any one or
more members of such an affiliated group.
(Ord. 03-18, passed 2-26-2018)
§ 37.098 FAILURE TO PAY TAXES.
   If a taxpayer that has made the election allowed under §
37.091 fails to pay any tax as required under §§
37.091 through
37.105 and
37.999(D), or any portion of that tax, on or before the date prescribed for its
payment, interest shall be assessed, collected and paid, in the same manner as
the tax, upon such unpaid amount at the rate per annum prescribed by R.C. §
5703.47 from the date prescribed for its payment until it is paid or until the
date an assessment is issued under §
37.101, whichever occurs first.
(Ord. 03-18, passed 2-26-2018)
§ 37.099 DECLARATION OF ESTIMATED TAXES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COMBINED TAX LIABILITY. The total amount of a taxpayer’s income tax
liabilities to all municipal corporations in this state for a taxable year.
      ESTIMATED TAXES. The amount that the taxpayer reasonably estimates to be
the taxpayer’s combined tax liability for the current taxable year.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(4) below, every taxpayer
shall make a declaration of estimated taxes for the current taxable year, on
the form prescribed by the Tax Commissioner, if the amount payable as estimated
taxes is at least $200.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(4) below, a taxpayer having a
taxable year of less than 12 months shall make a declaration under rules
prescribed by the Commissioner.
      (3)   The declaration of estimated taxes shall be filed on or before the
fifteenth day of the fourth month after the beginning of the taxable year or on
or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the taxpayer becomes
subject to tax for the first time.
      (4)   The Tax Commissioner may waive the requirement for filing a
declaration of estimated taxes for any class of taxpayers after finding that
the waiver is reasonable and proper in view of administrative costs and other
factors.
   (C)   Each taxpayer shall file the declaration of estimated taxes with, and
remit estimated taxes to, the Tax Commissioner at the times and in the amounts
prescribed in division (C)(1) below. Remitted taxes shall be made payable to
the Treasurer of state.
      (1)   The required portion of the combined tax liability for the taxable
year that shall be paid through estimated taxes shall be as follows:
         (a)   On or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 22.5% of the combined tax liability for the
taxable year;
         (b)   On or before the fifteenth day of the sixth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 45% of the combined tax liability for the
taxable year;
         (c)   On or before the fifteenth day of the ninth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 67.5% of the combined tax liability for the
taxable year; and
         (d)   On or before the fifteenth day of the twelfth month of the
taxable year, 90% of the combined tax liability for the taxable year.
      (2)   If the taxpayer determines that its declaration of estimated taxes
will not accurately reflect the taxpayer’s tax liability for the taxable year,
the taxpayer shall increase or decrease, as appropriate, its subsequent
payments in equal installments to result in a more accurate payment of
estimated taxes.
      (3)   (a)   Each taxpayer shall report on the declaration of estimated
taxes the portion of the remittance that the taxpayer estimates that it owes to
each municipal corporation for the taxable year.
         (b)   Upon receiving a payment of estimated taxes under this section,
the Commissioner shall immediately forward the payment to the Treasurer of
state. The Treasurer shall credit the payment in the same manner as in R.C. §
718.85(B).
   (D)   (1)   In the case of any underpayment of estimated taxes, there shall
be added to the taxes an amount determined at the rate per annum prescribed by
R.C. § 5703.47 upon the amount of underpayment for the period of underpayment,
unless the underpayment is due to reasonable cause as described in division (E)
below. The amount of the underpayment shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   For the first payment of estimated taxes each year, 22.5% of the
combined tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed
for that payment;
         (b)   For the second payment of estimated taxes each year, 45% of the
combined tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed
for that payment;
         (c)   For the third payment of estimated taxes each year, 67.5% of the
combined tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed
for that payment; and
         (d)   For the fourth payment of estimated taxes each year, 90% of the
combined tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed
for that payment.
      (2)   The period of the underpayment shall run from the day the estimated
payment was required to be made to the date on which the payment is made. For
purposes of this section, a payment of estimated taxes on or before any payment
date shall be considered a payment of any previous underpayment only to the
extent the payment of estimated taxes exceeds the amount of the payment
presently due.
      (3)   All amounts collected under this section shall be considered as
taxes collected under §§
37.092 through
37.105 and
37.999(D) and shall be credited and distributed to municipal corporations in
accordance with R.C. § 718.83.
   (E)   An underpayment of any portion of a combined tax liability shall be
due to reasonable cause and the penalty imposed by this section shall not be
added to the taxes for the taxable year if any of the following apply.
      (1)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 90% of
the combined tax liability for the current taxable year, determined by
annualizing the income received during the year up to the end of the month
immediately preceding the month in which the payment is due.
      (2)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 100%
of the tax liability shown on the return of the taxpayer for the preceding
taxable year, provided that the immediately preceding taxable year reflected a
period of 12 months and the taxpayer filed a municipal income tax return for
that year.
(Ord. 03-18, passed 2-26-2018)
§ 37.100 ADDITIONAL PENALTIES.
   (A)   In addition to any other penalty imposed by §§
37.091 through
37.105 and
37.999(D) of this subchapter or R.C. Chapter 5703, the following penalties
shall apply.
      (1)   If a taxpayer required to file a tax return under §§
37.091 through
37.105 and
37.999(D) fails to make and file the return within the time prescribed,
including any extensions of time granted by the Tax Commissioner, the
Commissioner may impose a penalty not exceeding $25 per month or fraction of a
month, for each month or fraction of a month elapsing between the due date,
including extensions of the due date, and the date on which the return is
filed. The aggregate penalty, per instance, under this division (A)(1) shall
not exceed $150.
      (2)   If a person required to file a tax return electronically under §§
37.091 through
37.105 and
37.999(D) fails to do so, the Commissioner may impose a penalty not to exceed
the following:
         (a)   For each of the first two failures, 5% of the amount required to
be reported on the return; and
         (b)   For the third and any subsequent failure, 10% of the amount
required to be reported on the return.
      (3)   If a taxpayer that has made the election allowed under §
37.091 fails to timely pay an amount of tax required to be paid under this
subchapter, the Commissioner may impose a penalty equal to 15% of the amount
not timely paid.
      (4)   If a taxpayer files what purports to be a tax return required by §§
37.091 through
37.105 and
37.999(D) that does not contain information upon which the substantial
correctness of the return may be judged or contains information that on its
face indicates that the return is substantially incorrect, and the filing of
the return in that manner is due to a position that is frivolous or a desire
that is apparent from the return to delay or impede the administration of §§
37.091 through
37.105 and
37.999(D), a penalty of up to $500 may be imposed.
      (5)   If a taxpayer makes a fraudulent attempt to evade the reporting or
payment of the tax required to be shown on any return required under §§
37.091 through
37.105 and
37.999(D), a penalty may be imposed not exceeding the greater of $1,000 or 100%
of the tax required to be shown on the return.
      (6)   If any person makes a false or fraudulent claim for a refund under
§
37.102, a penalty may be imposed not exceeding the greater of $1,000 or 100% of
the claim. Any penalty imposed under this division (A), any refund issued on
the claim, and interest on any refund from the date of the refund, may be
assessed under §
37.101 without regard to any time limitation for the assessment imposed by §
37.101(A).
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the tax required to be shown on a tax
return shall be reduced by the amount of any part of the tax paid on or before
the date, including any extensions of the date, prescribed for filing the
return.
   (C)   Each penalty imposed under this section shall be in addition to any
other penalty imposed under this section. All or part of any penalty imposed
under this section may be abated by the Tax Commissioner. The Commissioner may
adopt rules governing the imposition and abatement of such penalties.
   (D)   All amounts collected under this section shall be considered as taxes
collected under §§
37.091 through
37.105 and
37.999(D) and shall be credited and distributed to municipal corporations in
the same proportion as the underlying tax liability is required to be
distributed to such municipal corporations under R.C. § 718.83.
(Ord. 03-18, passed 2-26-2018) Penalty, see §
37.999
§ 37.101 ASSESSMENTS AGAINST TAXPAYER.
   (A)   (1)   If any taxpayer required to file a return under §§
37.091 through
37.105 and
37.999(D) fails to file the return within the time prescribed, files an
incorrect return or fails to remit the full amount of the tax due for the
period covered by the return, the Tax Commissioner may make an assessment
against the taxpayer for any deficiency for the period for which the return or
tax is due, based upon any information in the Commissioner’s possession.
      (2)   The Tax Commissioner shall not make or issue an assessment against
a taxpayer more than three years after the later of the date the return subject
to assessment was required to be filed or the date the return was filed. Such
time limit may be extended if both the taxpayer and the Commissioner consent in
writing to the extension. Any such extension shall extend the three-year time
limit in §
37.102 for the same period of time. There shall be no bar or limit to an
assessment against a taxpayer that fails to file a return subject to assessment
as required by §§
37.091 through
37.105 and
37.999(D), or that files a fraudulent return. The Commissioner shall give the
taxpayer assessed written notice of the assessment as provided in R.C. §
5703.37. With the notice, the Commissioner shall provide instructions on how to
petition for reassessment and request a hearing on the petition.
   (B)   Unless the taxpayer assessed files with the Tax Commissioner within 60
days after service of the notice of assessment, either personally or by
certified mail, a written petition for reassessment signed by the authorized
agent of the taxpayer assessed having knowledge of the facts, the assessment
becomes final, and the amount of the assessment is due and payable from the
taxpayer to the Treasurer of state. The petition shall indicate the taxpayer’s
objections, but additional objections may be raised in writing if received by
the Commissioner prior to the date shown on the final determination. If the
petition has been properly filed, the Commissioner shall proceed under R.C. §
5703.60.
   (C)   (1)   After an assessment becomes final, if any portion of the
assessment remains unpaid, including accrued interest, a certified copy of the
Tax Commissioner’s entry making the assessment final may be filed in the office
of the Clerk of the Court of Common Pleas in the county in which the taxpayer
has an office or place of business in this state, the county in which the
taxpayer’s statutory agent is located or Franklin County.
      (2)   Immediately upon the filing of the entry, the Fiscal Officer shall
enter a judgment against the taxpayer assessed in the amount shown on the
entry. The judgment may be filed by the Fiscal Officer in a loose-leaf book
entitled “special judgments for municipal income taxes”, and shall have the
same effect as other judgments. Execution shall issue upon the judgment upon
the request of the Tax Commissioner, and all laws applicable to sales on
execution shall apply to sales made under the judgment.
      (3)   If the assessment is not paid in its entirety within 60 days after
the day the assessment was issued, the portion of the assessment consisting of
tax due shall bear interest at the rate per annum prescribed by R.C. § 5703.47
from the day the Commissioner issues the assessment until the assessment is
paid or until it is certified to the Attorney General for collection under R.C.
§ 131.02, whichever comes first. If the unpaid portion of the assessment is
certified to the Attorney General for collection, the entire unpaid portion of
the assessment shall bear interest at the rate per annum prescribed by R.C. §
5703.47 from the date of certification until the date it is paid in its
entirety. Interest shall be paid in the same manner as the tax and may be
collected by issuing an assessment under this section.
   (D)   All money collected under this section shall be credited to the
municipal income tax fund and distributed to the municipal corporation to which
the money is owed based on the assessment issued under this section.
   (E)   If the Tax Commissioner believes that collection of the tax will be
jeopardized unless proceedings to collect or secure collection of the tax are
instituted without delay, the Commissioner may issue a jeopardy assessment
against the taxpayer liable for the tax. Immediately upon the issuance of the
jeopardy assessment, the Commissioner shall file an entry with the Clerk of the
Court of Common Pleas in the manner prescribed by division (C) above. Notice of
the jeopardy assessment shall be served on the taxpayer assessed or the
taxpayer’s legal representative in the manner provided in R.C. § 5703.37 within
five days of the filing of the entry with the Fiscal Officer. The total amount
assessed is immediately due and payable, unless the taxpayer assessed files a
petition for reassessment in accordance with division (B) above and provides
security in a form satisfactory to the Commissioner and in an amount sufficient
to satisfy the unpaid balance of the assessment. Full or partial payment of the
assessment does not prejudice the Commissioner’s consideration of the petition
for reassessment.
   (F)   (1)   Notwithstanding the fact that a petition for reassessment is
pending, the taxpayer may pay all or a portion of the assessment that is the
subject of the petition. The acceptance of a payment by the Treasurer of state
does not prejudice any claim for refund upon final determination of the
petition.
      (2)   If upon final determination of the petition an error in the
assessment is corrected by the Tax Commissioner, upon petition so filed or
pursuant to a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals or any court to which the
determination or decision has been appealed, so that the amount due from the
taxpayer under the corrected assessment is less than the portion paid, there
shall be issued to the taxpayer, its assigns or legal representative a refund
in the amount of the overpayment as provided by §
37.102, with interest on that amount as provided by that section.
(Ord. 03-18, passed 2-26-2018)
§ 37.102 REFUND APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   An application to refund to a taxpayer the amount of taxes paid on any
illegal, erroneous or excessive payment of tax under §§
37.091 through
37.105 and
37.999(D), including assessments, shall be filed with the Tax Commissioner
within three years after the date of the illegal, erroneous or excessive
payment of the tax, or within any additional period allowed by §
37.101(A). The application shall be filed in the form prescribed by the Tax
Commissioner.
   (B)   (1)   On the filing of a refund application, the Tax Commissioner
shall determine the amount of refund to which the applicant is entitled. The
amount determined shall be based on the amount overpaid per return or
assessment. If the amount is greater than $10 and not less than that claimed,
the Commissioner shall certify that amount to the Director of Budget and
Management and the Treasurer of state for payment from the tax refund fund
created in R.C. § 5703.052. If the amount is greater than $10 but less than
that claimed, the Commissioner shall proceed in accordance with R.C. § 5703.70.
      (2)   Upon issuance of a refund under this section, the Commissioner
shall notify each municipal corporation of the amount refunded to the taxpayer
attributable to that municipal corporation, which shall be deducted from the
municipal corporation’s next distribution under R.C. § 718.83.
   (C)   Any portion of a refund determined under division (B) above that is
not issued within 90 days after such determination shall bear interest at the
rate per annum prescribed by R.C. § 5703.47 from the ninety-first day after
such determination until the day the refund is paid or credited. On an illegal
or erroneous assessment, interest shall be paid at that rate from the date of
payment on the illegal or erroneous assessment until the day the refund is paid
or credited.
(Ord. 03-18, passed 2-26-2018)
§ 37.103 AMENDED RETURNS.
   (A)   If any of the facts, figures, computations or attachments required in
an annual return filed by a taxpayer that has made the election allowed under §
37.091 and used to determine the tax due under §§
37.091 through
37.105 and
37.999(D) must be altered as the result of an adjustment to the taxpayer’s
federal income tax return, whether initiated by the taxpayer or the Internal
Revenue Service, and such alteration affects the taxpayer’s tax liability under
those sections, the taxpayer shall file an amended return with the Tax
Commissioner in such form as the Commissioner requires. The amended return
shall be filed not later than 60 days after the adjustment is agreed upon or
finally determined for federal income tax purposes or after any federal income
tax deficiency or refund, or the abatement or credit resulting therefrom, has
been assessed or paid, whichever occurs first. If a taxpayer intends to file an
amended consolidated municipal income tax return, or to amend its type of
return from a separate return to a consolidated return, based on the taxpayer’s
consolidated federal income tax return, the taxpayer shall notify the
Commissioner before filing the amended return.
   (B)   In the case of an underpayment, the amended return shall be
accompanied by payment of any combined additional tax due together with any
penalty and interest thereon. An amended return required by this section is a
return subject to assessment under §
37.091 for the purpose of assessing any additional tax due under this section,
together with any applicable penalty and interest. The amended return shall not
reopen those facts, figures, computations or attachments from a previously
filed return no longer subject to assessment that are not affected, either
directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the taxpayer’s federal tax return.
   (C)   In the case of an overpayment, an application for refund may be filed
under this division (C) within the 60-day period prescribed for filing the
amended return, even if that period extends beyond the period prescribed in §
37.092, if the application otherwise conforms to the requirements of that
section. An application filed under this division (C) shall claim refund of
overpayments resulting from alterations to only those facts, figures,
computations or attachments required in the taxpayer’s annual return that are
affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the taxpayer’s
federal income tax return unless it is also filed within the time prescribed in
§
37.092. The application shall not reopen those facts, figures, computations or
attachments that are not affected, either directly or indirectly, by the
adjustment to the taxpayer’s federal income tax return.
(Ord. 03-18, passed 2-26-2018)
§ 37.104 EXAMINATION OF RECORDS AND OTHER DOCUMENTS AND PERSONS.
   (A)   The Tax Commissioner, or any authorized agent or employee thereof, may
examine the books, papers, records, and federal and state income tax returns of
any taxpayer or other person that is subject to §§
37.091 through
37.105 and
37.999(D) for the purpose of verifying the accuracy of any return made or, if
no return was filed, to ascertain the tax due as required under those sections.
Upon written request by the Commissioner or a duly authorized agent or employee
thereof, every taxpayer or other person subject to this section is required to
furnish the opportunity for the Commissioner, authorized agent or employee to
investigate and examine such books, papers, records, and federal and state
income tax returns at a reasonable time and place designated in the request.
   (B)   The records and other documents of any taxpayer or other person that
is subject to §§
37.091 through
37.105 and
37.999(D) shall be open to the Tax Commissioner’s inspection during business
hours and shall be preserved for a period of six years following the end of the
taxable year to which the records or documents relate, unless the Commissioner,
in writing, consents to their destruction within that period, or by order
requires that they be kept longer. The Commissioner may require any person, by
notice served on that person, to keep such records as the Commissioner
determines necessary to show whether or not that person is liable, and the
extent of such liability, for the income tax levied by a municipal corporation.
   (C)   The Tax Commissioner may examine under oath any person that the
Commissioner reasonably believes has knowledge concerning any income that was
or would have been returned for taxation or any transaction tending to affect
such income. The Commissioner may, for this purpose, compel any such person to
attend a hearing or examination and to produce any books, papers, records, and
federal income tax returns in such person’s possession or control. The person
may be assisted or represented by an attorney, accountant, bookkeeper or other
tax practitioner at any such hearing or examination. This division (C) does not
authorize the practice of law by a person who is not an attorney.
   (D)   No person issued written notice by the Tax Commissioner compelling
attendance at a hearing or examination or the production of books, papers,
records or federal income tax returns under this section shall fail to comply.
(Ord. 03-18, passed 2-26-2018)
§ 37.105 CREDITS.
   (A)   A credit, granted by resolution or ordinance of the village pursuant
to §
37.060(D) and (E), shall be available to a taxpayer that has made the election
allowed under §
37.091, against the municipal corporation’s tax on income. A municipal
corporation shall submit the following information to the Tax Commissioner on
or before the later of January 31, 2018, or January 31 of the first year in
which the taxpayer is eligible to receive the credit:
      (1)   A copy of the agreement entered into by the village and taxpayer
under §
37.060(D) and (E); and
      (2)   A copy of the ordinance or resolution authorizing the agreement
entered into between the village and the taxpayer.
   (B)   (1)   Each taxpayer that claims a credit shall submit, with the
taxpayer’s tax return, documentation issued by the village granting the credit
that confirms the eligibility of the taxpayer for the credit, the amount of the
credit for which the taxpayer is eligible, and the tax year to which the credit
is to be applied.
      (2)   Such documentation shall be provided in the form prescribed by the
Tax Commissioner.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize the Tax
Commissioner to enter into an agreement with a taxpayer to grant a credit, to
determine if a taxpayer meets the conditions of a tax credit agreement entered
into by the village and taxpayer under §
37.060(D) and (E), or to modify the terms or conditions of any such existing
agreement.
(Ord. 03-18, passed 2-26-2018)
§ 37.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of §
37.043 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. Punishment shall not
exceed a maximum of 30 days in jail and a $500 fine.
      (2)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of §
37.039 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each disclosure shall
constitute a separate offense. Punishment shall not exceed a maximum of six
months in jail and a $1,000 fine.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) below, whoever violates §§
37.059(A), 37.068(A) or
37.069 by failing to remit municipal income taxes deducted and withheld from an
employee, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be
subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment for a term of up to
six months, or both. In addition, the violation is punishable by dismissal from
office or discharge from employment, or both.
      (2)   Any person who discloses information received from the Internal
Revenue Service in violation of Internal Revenue Code §§ 7213(a), 7213A or 7431
shall be guilty of a felony of the fifth degree and shall be subject to a fine
of not more than $5,000 plus the costs of prosecution, or imprisonment for a
term not exceeding five years, or both. In addition, the violation is
punishable by dismissal from office or discharge from employment, or both.
      (3)   Each instance of access or disclosure in violation of §
37.068(A) constitutes a separate offense.
      (4)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
37.055 through
37.076 for which violation no penalty is otherwise provided, is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. By way of an illustrative enumeration,
violations of §§
37.055 through
37.076 shall include, but not be limited to, the following acts, conduct and/or
omissions:
         (a)   Fail, neglect or refuse to make any return or declaration
required by §§
37.055 through
37.076;
         (b)   Knowingly make any incomplete return;
         (c)   Willfully fail, neglect or refuse to pay the tax, penalties and
interest, or any combination thereof, imposed by §§
37.055 through
37.076;
         (d)   Cause to not be remitted the city income tax withheld from
qualifying wages of employees to the municipality municipal corporation as
required by §
37.059(A);
         (e)   Neglect or refuse to withhold or remit municipal income tax from
employees;
         (f)   Refuse to permit the Tax Administrator or any duly authorized
agent or employee to examine his or her books, records, papers, federal and
state income tax returns, or any documentation relating to the income or net
profits of a taxpayer;
         (g)   Fail to appear before the Tax Administrator and to produce his
or her books, records, papers, federal and state income tax returns, or any
documentation relating to the income or net profits of a taxpayer upon order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator;
         (h)   Refuse to disclose to the Tax Administrator any information with
respect to such person’s income or net profits, or in the case of a person
responsible for maintaining information relating to his or her employers’
income or net profits, such person’s employer’s income or net profits;
         (i)   Fail to comply with the provisions of §§
37.055 through
37.076 or any order or subpoena of the Tax Administrator;
         (j)   To avoid imposition or collection of municipal income tax,
willfully give to an employer or prospective employer false information as to
his or her true name, correct Social Security number and residence address, or
willfully fail to promptly notify an employer or a prospective employer of any
change in residence address and date thereof;
         (k)   Fail, as an employer, agent of an employer or other payer, to
maintain proper records of employees residence addresses, total qualifying
wages paid and municipal tax withheld, or to knowingly give the Tax
Administrator false information;
         (l)   Willfully fail, neglect or refuse to make any payment of
estimated municipal income tax for any taxable year or any part of any taxable
year in accordance with §§
37.055 through
37.076; or
         (m)   Attempt to do anything whatsoever to avoid the payment of the
whole or any part of the tax, penalties or interest imposed by §§
37.055 through
37.076.
      (5)   For purposes of this division (C), any violation that does not
specify a culpable mental state or intent, shall be one of strict liability and
no culpable mental state or intent shall be required for a person to be guilty
of that violation.
      (6)   For purposes of this division (C), the term PERSON shall, in
addition to the meaning prescribed in §
37.057, include in the case of a corporation, association, pass-through entity
or unincorporated business entity not having any resident owner or officer
within the city, any employee or agent of such corporation, association, pass-
through entity or unincorporated business entity who has control or supervision
over or is charged with the responsibility of filing the municipal income tax
returns and making the payments of the municipal income tax as required by §§
37.055 through
37.076.
   (D)   (1)   Except as provided in division (D)(2) below, whoever recklessly
violates §
37.094(A) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be
subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment for a term of up to
six months, or both.
      (2)   Each instance of access or disclosure in violation of §
37.094(A) constitutes a separate offense.
      (3)   These specific penalties shall not be construed to prevent the
village from prosecuting any and all other offenses that may apply.
(Ord. 3-98, passed 4-13-1998; Ord. 18-15, passed 11-2-2015; Ord. 03-18, passed
2-26-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Violations; penalties, see R.C. § 718.99
CHAPTER 38: VILLAGE POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
38.01   Hazard Communication Program
   
38.02   Use of village property by village residents
Identity Theft Policy
   
38.15   Background
   
38.16   Purpose
   
38.17   Scope
   
38.18   Sensitive information policy
   
38.19   Additional identity theft program
   
38.20   Responding to red flags
   
38.21   Periodic updates to plan
   
38.22   Program administration
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 38.01 HAZARD COMMUNICATION PROGRAM.
   The village hazard communication program, as attached to Ord. 17-06, is
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as fully as if set out at length
in this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 17-06, passed 12-11-2006)
§ 38.02 USE OF VILLAGE PROPERTY BY VILLAGE RESIDENTS.
   (A)   Tangible personal property owned by the village shall not be used by
other than properly qualified persons working in the line of duty for the
village. (This section effectively qualifies and further defines The Village of
Bluffton, Ohio Personnel Policy and Procedure Manual, § 6.04 A.4.)
   (B)   Tangible personal property owned by the village shall not be used by
or given to private persons or organizations. Exceptions to this policy may be
made by the Village Administrator only in the case of emergency circumstances.
The Village Administrator shall immediately report this use to the Mayor and to
Council, in writing, by the next regular meeting of Council.
   (C)   (1)   The use of village personnel for special functions or events
being promoted by civic organizations must be approved by Village Council after
formal request is made to Council.
      (2)   The Council may give pre-approval for annually occurring events,
but nothing in this section shall prohibit Council from rescinding its approval
at a later date.
   (D)   The use of village tangible personal property and personnel in the
line of duty by persons associated with the village to meet special needs of
village inhabitants or civic organizations is encouraged on a non-
discriminatory basis. Where such use is likely to result in significant costs
to the village, the village inhabitant or organization benefitting from the use
shall be asked (when it is practical) to pre-approve the use with the
expectation of being billed by the village for those cost. The Village
Administrator shall determine what constitutes the level of use requiring
reimbursement by the village inhabitant or organization.
   (E)   The use of any tangible personal property owned by the village by
persons or entities that are not employees of the village is prohibited unless
such use is presented to the Council of the village and approved by a majority
thereof after application stating the property to be used, the need, the length
of use and the execution of a liability waiver by the applicant.
   (F)   The use authorized under division (E) above shall extend only to
tangible personal property and shall specifically exclude any motor vehicle,
any equipment used for safety services, any capital equipment for the service
department, backhoes, trucks, tools or other property deemed excluded by the
Mayor, Village Administrator or department head.
   (G)   It is the intent of the village to allow only short-term use of non-
essential tangible personal property. Any use authorized shall be terminable at
any time by the village without notice or penalty. No use authorized grants any
right of ownership or exclusive use by the grantee at any time.
(Ord. 17-01, passed 10-16-2001; Ord. 8-04, passed 5-24-2004)
IDENTITY THEFT POLICY
§ 38.15 BACKGROUND.
   The risk to the municipality, its employees and customers from data loss and
identity theft is of significant concern to the municipality and can be reduced
only through the combined efforts of every employee and contractor.
(Ord. 32-08, passed - -2008)
§ 38.16 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The municipality adopts this sensitive information policy to help
protect employees, customers, contractors and the municipality from damages
related to the loss or misuse of sensitive information.
   (B)   This policy will:
      (1)   Define sensitive information;
      (2)   Describe the physical security of data when it is printed on paper;
      (3)   Describe the electronic security of data when stored and
distributed; and
      (4)   Place the municipality in compliance with state and federal law
regarding identity theft protection.
   (C)   This policy enables the municipality to protect existing customers,
reducing risk from identity fraud and minimize potential damage to the
municipality from fraudulent new accounts. The program will help the
municipality:
      (1)   Identify risks that signify potentially fraudulent activity within
new or existing covered accounts;
      (2)   Detect risks when they occur in covered accounts;
      (3)   Respond to risks to determine if fraudulent activity has occurred
and act if fraud has been attempted or committed; and
      (4)   Update the program periodically, including reviewing the accounts
that are covered and the identified risks that are part of the program.
(Ord. 32-08, passed - -2008)
§ 38.17 SCOPE.
   This policy and protection program applies to employees, contractors,
consultants, temporary workers and other workers at the municipality, including
all personnel affiliated with third parties.
(Ord. 32-08, passed - -2008)
§ 38.18 SENSITIVE INFORMATION POLICY.
   (A)   Definition of sensitive information. SENSITIVE INFORMATION includes
the following items whether stored in electronic or printed format:
      (1)   Credit card information, including any of the following:
         (a)   Credit card number (in part or whole);
         (b)   Credit card expiration date;
         (c)   Cardholder name; and
         (d)   Cardholder address.
      (2)   Tax identification numbers, including:
         (a)   Social Security number;
         (b)   Business identification number; and
         (c)   Employer identification numbers.
      (3)   Payroll information, including, among other information:
         (a)   Paychecks; and
         (b)   Pay stubs.
      (4)   Cafeteria plan check requests and associated paperwork;
      (5)   Medical information for any employee or customer, including, but
not limited to:
         (a)   Doctor names and claims;
         (b)   Insurance claims;
         (c)   Prescriptions; and
         (d)   Any related personal medical information.
      (6)   Other personal information belonging to any customer, employee or
contractor, examples of which include:
         (a)   Date of birth;
         (b)   Address;
         (c)   Phone numbers;
         (d)   Maiden name;
         (e)   Names; and
         (f)   Customer number.
      (7)   (a)   Municipal personnel are encouraged to use common sense
judgment in securing confidential information to the proper extent.
Furthermore, this section should be read in conjunction with the State Public
Records Act, being R.C. §§ 149.01 et seq. and the municipality’s open records
policy. If an employee is uncertain of the sensitivity of a particular piece of
information, he or she should contact his or her supervisor. In the event that
the municipality cannot resolve a conflict between this policy and the State
Public Records Act, the municipality will contact the State Office of Open
Records.
         (b)   The following log shall be used for public records requests.
 
Public Records Request Log
Date of Request Requested By Records Requested Date Completed and How Completed
 
   (B)   Hard copy distribution. Each employee and contractor performing work
for the municipality will comply with the following policies.
      (1)   File cabinets, desk drawers, overhead cabinets and any other
storage space containing documents with sensitive information will be locked
when not in use.
      (2)   Storage rooms containing documents with sensitive information and
record retention areas will be locked at the end of each workday or when
unsupervised.
      (3)   Desks, workstations, work areas, printers and fax machines, and
common shared work areas will be cleared of all documents containing sensitive
information when not in use.
      (4)   Whiteboards, dry-erase boards, writing tablets and the like in
common shared work areas will be erased, removed or shredded when not in use.
      (5)   When documents containing sensitive information are discarded they
will be placed inside a locked shred bin or immediately shredded using a
mechanical cross cut or Department of Defense (DOD)-approved shredding device.
Locked shred bins are labeled “Confidential paper shredding and recycling”.
Municipal records, however, may only be destroyed in accordance with the
village’s records retention policy.
   (C)   Electronic distribution. Each employee and contractor performing work
for the municipality will comply with the following policies.
      (1)   Internally, sensitive information may be transmitted using approved
municipal e-mail. All sensitive information must be encrypted when stored in an
electronic format.
      (2)   Any sensitive information sent externally must be encrypted and
password protected and only to approved recipients. Additionally, a statement
such as this should be included in the e-mail:
“This message may contain confidential and/or proprietary information and is
intended for the person/entity to whom it was originally addressed. Any use by
others is strictly prohibited.”
(Ord. 32-08, passed - -2008)
§ 38.19 ADDITIONAL IDENTITY THEFT PROGRAM.
   If the municipality maintains certain covered accounts pursuant to federal
legislation, the municipality may include the additional program details.
   (A)   Covered accounts. A covered account includes any account that involves
or is designed to permit multiple payments or transactions. Every new and
existing customer account that meets the following criteria is covered by this
program:
      (1)   Business, personal and household accounts for which there is a
reasonably foreseeable risk of identity theft; or
      (2)   Business, personal and household accounts for which there is a
reasonably foreseeable risk to the safety or soundness of the municipality from
identity theft, including financial, operational, compliance, reputation or
litigation risks.
   (B)   Red flags.
      (1)   The following red flags are potential indicators of fraud. Any time
a red flag, or a situation closely resembling a red flag, is apparent, it
should be investigated for verification:
         (a)   Alerts, notifications or warnings from a consumer reporting
agency;
         (b)   A fraud or active duty alert included with a consumer report;
         (c)   A notice of credit freeze from a consumer reporting agency in
response to a request for a consumer report; or
         (d)   A notice of address discrepancy from a consumer reporting agency
as defined in § 334.82(b) of the Fairness and Accuracy in Credit Transactions
Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 1681 et seq.
      (2)   Red flags also include consumer reports that indicate a pattern of
activity inconsistent with the history and usual pattern of activity of an
applicant or customer, such as:
         (a)   A recent and significant increase in the volume of inquiries;
         (b)   An unusual number of recently established credit relationships;
         (c)   A material change in the use of credit, especially with respect
to recently established credit relationships; or
         (d)   An account that was closed for cause or identified for abuse of
account privileges by a financial institution or creditor.
   (C)   Suspicious documents.
      (1)   Documents provided for identification that appear to have been
altered or forged;
      (2)   The photograph or physical description on the identification is not
consistent with the appearance of the applicant or customer presenting the
identification;
      (3)   Other information on the identification is not consistent with
information provided by the person opening a new covered account or customer
presenting the identification;
      (4)   Other information on the identification is not consistent with
readily accessible information that is on file with the municipality, such as a
signature card or a recent check; and
      (5)   An application appears to have been altered or forged, or gives the
appearance of having been destroyed and reassembled.
   (D)   Suspicious personal identifying information.
      (1)   Personal identifying information provided is inconsistent when
compared against external information sources used by the municipality. For
example:
         (a)   The address does not match any address in the consumer report;
         (b)   The Social Security number (SSN) has not been issued or is
listed on the Social Security Administration’s Death Master File; or
         (c)   Personal identifying information provided by the customer is not
consistent with other personal identifying information provided by the
customer. For example, there is a lack of correlation between the SSN range and
date of birth.
      (2)   Personal identifying information provided is associated with known
fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third-party sources used by the
municipality. For example, the address on an application is the same as the
address provided on a fraudulent application; and
      (3)   Personal identifying information provided is of a type commonly
associated with fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third-party
sources used by the municipality. For example:
         (a)   The address on an application is fictitious, a mail drop or a
prison;
         (b)   The phone number is invalid or is associated with a pager or
answering service;
      (4)   The SSN provided is the same as that submitted by other persons
opening an account or other customers;
      (5)   The address or telephone number provided is the same as or similar
to the address or telephone number submitted by an unusually large number of
other customers or other persons opening accounts;
      (6)   The customer or the person opening the covered account fails to
provide all required personal identifying information on an application or in
response to notification that the application is incomplete;
      (7)   Personal identifying information provided is not consistent with
personal identifying information that is on file with the municipality; or
      (8)   When using security questions (mother’s maiden name, pet’s name and
the like), the person opening the covered account or the customer cannot
provide authenticating information beyond that which generally would be
available from a wallet or consumer report.
   (E)   Unusual use of, or suspicious activity related to, the covered
account.
      (1)   Shortly following the notice of a change of address for a covered
account, the municipality receives a request for new, additional or replacement
goods or services, or for the addition of authorized users on the account.
      (2)   A new revolving credit account is used in a manner commonly
associated with known patterns of fraud patterns. For example, the customer
fails to make the first payment or makes an initial payment but no subsequent
payments.
      (3)   A covered account is used in a manner that is not consistent with
established patterns of activity on the account. There is, for example:
         (a)   Nonpayment when there is no history of late or missed payments;
or
         (b)   A material change in purchasing or usage patterns.
      (4)   A covered account that has been inactive for a reasonably lengthy
period of time is used (taking into consideration the type of account, the
expected pattern of usage and other relevant factors).
      (5)   Mail sent to the customer is returned repeatedly as undeliverable
although transactions continue to be conducted in connection with the
customer’s covered account.
      (6)   The municipality is notified that the customer is not receiving
paper account statements.
      (7)   The municipality is notified of unauthorized charges or
transactions in connection with a customer’s covered account.
      (8)   The municipality receives notice from customers, victims of
identity theft, law enforcement authorities or other persons regarding possible
identity theft in connection with covered accounts held by the municipality.
      (9)   The municipality is notified by a customer, a victim of identity
theft, a law enforcement authority or any other person that it has opened a
fraudulent account for a person engaged in identity theft.
(Ord. 32-08, passed - -2008)
§ 38.20 RESPONDING TO RED FLAGS.
   (A)   Once potentially fraudulent activity is detected, an employee must act
quickly as a rapid appropriate response can protect customers and the
municipality from damages and loss.
      (1)   Once potentially fraudulent activity is detected, gather all
related documentation and write a description of the situation. Present this
information to the designated authority for determination.
      (2)   The designated authority will complete additional authentication to
determine whether the attempted transaction was fraudulent or authentic.
   (B)   If a transaction is determined to be fraudulent, appropriate actions
must be taken immediately. Actions may include:
      (1)   Canceling the transaction;
      (2)   Notifying and cooperating with appropriate law enforcement;
      (3)   Determining the extent of liability of the municipality; and
      (4)   Notifying the actual customer that fraud has been attempted.
(Ord. 32-08, passed - -2008)
§ 38.21 PERIODIC UPDATES TO PLAN.
   (A)   At periodic intervals established in the program, or as required, the
program will be re-evaluated to determine whether all aspects of the program
are up to date and applicable in the current business environment.
   (B)   Periodic reviews will include an assessment of which accounts are
covered by the program.
   (C)   As part of the review, red flags may be revised, replaced or
eliminated. Defining new red flags may also be appropriate.
   (D)   Actions to take in the event that fraudulent activity is discovered
may also require revision to reduce damage to the municipality and its
customers.
(Ord. 32-08, passed - -2008)
§ 38.22 PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Involvement of management.
      (1)   The identity theft prevention program shall not be operated as an
extension to existing fraud prevention programs, and its importance warrants
the highest level of attention.
      (2)   The identity theft prevention program is the responsibility of the
governing body. Approval of the initial plan must be appropriately documented
and maintained.
      (3)   Operational responsibility of the program is delegated to the
Village Fiscal Officer.
   (B)   Staff training.
      (1)   Staff training shall be conducted for all employees, officials and
contractors for whom it is reasonably foreseeable that they may come into
contact with accounts or personally identifiable information that may
constitute a risk to the municipality or its customers.
      (2)   The Village Fiscal Officer is responsible for ensuring identity
theft training for all requisite employees and contractors.
      (3)   Employees must receive annual training in all elements of this
policy.
      (4)   To ensure maximum effectiveness, employees may continue to receive
additional training as changes to the program are made.
   (C)   Oversight of service provider arrangements.
      (1)   It is the responsibility of the municipality to ensure that the
activities of all service providers are conducted in accordance with reasonable
policies and procedures designed to detect, prevent and mitigate the risk of
identity theft.
      (2)   A service provider that maintains its own identity theft prevention
program, consistent with the guidance of the red flag rules and validated by
appropriate due diligence, may be considered to be meeting these requirements.
      (3)   Any specific requirements should be specifically addressed in the
appropriate contract arrangements.
(Ord. 32-08, passed - -2008)
CHAPTER 39: FEE SCHEDULE
Section
Mayor’s Court
   
39.01   Mayor’s Court fee structure
   
39.02   Additional court costs for cases which are charged to Mayor’s Court
Fee Schedule
   
39.15   Fee schedule
Cross-reference:
   Council rules, see §
31.01
   Taxation and Finance, see
Ch. 37
MAYOR’S COURT
§ 39.01 MAYOR’S COURT FEE STRUCTURE.
   The Mayor’s Court fee structure is adopted by reference and incorporated
herein as fully as if set out at length in this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 23-08, passed 8-25-2008)
§ 39.02 ADDITIONAL COURT COSTS FOR CASES WHICH ARE CHARGED TO MAYOR’S COURT.
   (A)   The Village Council approves the collection of an additional $20 in
court costs from each case charged to the Mayor’s Court whether heard in the
Court or whether bond is posted.
   (B)   As per R.C. § 733.40, these costs shall be deposited into the village
treasury and that no restrictions are required on this money.
(Ord. 8-00, passed - -2000)
FEE SCHEDULE
§ 39.15 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The rates and fees for village provided services will be billed according to
the schedule found in
Exhibit 1 in Chapter 40.
(Ord. 14-13, passed 5-28-2013; Ord. 04-16, passed 5-2-2016; Ord. 19-16, passed
12-5-2016; Ord. 06-17, passed 5-15-2017)
CHAPTER 40: EXHIBITS
Exhibits
   1   Fee schedule
   2   Garbage rates
   3   Water and sewer tap fees and rates
   4   Village forms, permits and applications
EXHIBIT 1 FEE SCHEDULE.
Type of Fee Fee
Type of Fee                                                                       Fee
Administrative:
   Alley vacation                                                              $150
   Board of Building and Zoning hearings                                       $250
   Bed and breakfast permit                                                    $100
   Building permit                                                             $10
   Copies                                                                      10¢
   Fax                                                                         $1
   NSF check                                                                   $20
   Planning Commission hearing                                                 $250
   Solicitor vendor license                                                    $10
   Zoning ordinance book                                                       $3
Cemetery:
   Cemetery deed transfer                                                      $25
   Lot                                                                         $500
   O/C - Burial                                                                $500
   O/C - Cremation and infant burial                                           $300
Recreation:
   Pool daily admission                                                        $4
   Pool family season pass                                                     $140
      additional children                                                   $10
   Pool single season pass                                                     $70
   Pool rental - 2 hours                                                       $175
   Swim lessons - member                                                       $30
   Swim lessons - non-member                                                   $40
   Swim lessons - private                                                      $75
   Village Hall community room set-up/cleaning non-refundable - civic and non- $20
profit groups exempt
   Village park shelter house deposit                                          $20
Safety Services:
   Accident report (up to 10 pgs)                                              $2
      additional pages                                                      25¢
   Advanced life support I                                                     $650
   Advanced life support II                                                    $750
   Basic life support                                                          $550
                                                                                  $12/per
                                                                                  hour for
                                                                                  the first
   Compensation rates for fire and EMS personnel                               hour;
                                                                                  $10/per
                                                                                  hour
                                                                                  thereafter
   EMS mileage (per mile)                                                      $12
   Non-transport runs                                                          No charge
   Security services (hourly)                                                  $25
Yard waste recycling fee                                                          $3
 
(Ord. 14-13, passed 5-28-2013; Ord. 04-16, passed 5-2-2016; Ord. 19-16, passed
12-5-2016; Ord. 06-17, passed 5-15-2017)
EXHIBIT 2 GARBAGE RATES.
   (A)   Each residential unit shall pay for complete weekly unlimited garbage,
refuse and recyclables collection, the sum of $19.56 per month, which shall be
billed in conjunction with the water and sewer charges.
   (B)   Charges shall consist of the bid from the contractor plus $0.50 per
month for each residence for billing and collection of garbage, refuse and
recycling services.
(Ord. 22-82, passed 10-19-1982; Ord. 14-83, passed 11-1-1983; Ord. 3-87, passed
2-17-1987; Ord. 3-89, passed 2-21-1989; Ord. 2-92, passed 3-3-1992; Ord. 4-00,
passed 4-10-2000; Ord. 19-03, passed 10-13-2003; Ord. 07-06, passed 5-8-2006;
Ord. 03-09, passed 5-11-2009; Ord. 13-13, passed 5-13-2013; Ord. 05-16, passed
-20-2016; Ord. 04-2020, passed 4-27-2020)
EXHIBIT 3 WATER AND SEWER TAP FEES AND RATES.
Sanitary Sewer and/or Water Connections and Tap-in Charges
Benefitted Unit Cost Based on Tap Size
Tap Size Max. Flow Water Sewer
Sanitary Sewer and/or Water Connections and Tap-in Charges
Benefitted Unit Cost Based on Tap Size
Tap Size  Max. Flow Water     Sewer
3/4 in.   20 GPM    $262.50   $367.50
1 in.     50 GPM    $656.25   $918.75
1-1/2 in. 100 GPM   $1,312.50 $1,837.50
2 in.     160 GPM   $2,100    $2,940
3 in.     320 GPM   $4,200    $5,880
4 in.     500 GPM   $6,562.50 $9,187.50
6 in.     1,000 GPM $13,125   $18,375
8 in.     1600 GPM  $21,000   $29,400
Water Fees Tap Size
           3/4 in. 1 in. Other
Water Fees           Tap Size
                     3/4 in. 1 in.                       Other
Benefitted unit cost $300    $750                        ___________________
Material             $600    $800                        ___________________
Labor                $425    $425                        ___________________
Road bore            $150    $150                        ___________________
Road cut and patch   $200    $200                        ___________________
Inspection           $100    $100                        ___________________
Repeat inspection    $100    $100                        ___________________
Front foot assessment cost if water main is installed by ___________________
the village
                             Water tap cost              $__________________
      *Taps made outside of the village corporation limits: (water tap cost
x 2)
Sanitary Sewer Fees  Tap Size
                     3/4 in. 1 in.                       Other
Benefitted unit cost $425    $1,000                      ___________________
Inspection           $175    $175                        ___________________
Repeat inspection    $150    $150                        ___________________
Lift station fee     $500    $500                        ___________________
Front foot assessment cost if sewer main is installed by ___________________
the village
                             Sanitary sewer tap cost     $__________________
 
(Ord. 5-96, passed 3-11-1996; Ord. 34-96, passed 10-7-1996; Ord. 11-97, passed
6-9-1997; Ord. 9-98, passed 6-22-1998; Ord. 13-01, passed 7-25-2001; Ord. 02-
05, passed 4-25-2005)
 
Sanitary Sewerage Service and Disposal Monthly Rates
Monthly minimum billing to 2,244 gallons $24.82
Next 2,244 gallons                       $0.8249 per 100 gallons
Next 67,320 gallons                      $0.5561 per 100 gallons
Next 77,792 gallons                      $0.3770 per 100 gallons
Over 149,600 gallons                     $0.3142 per 100 gallons
 
(Ord. 29-82, passed - -; Ord. 19-83, passed 12-20-1983; Ord. 4-87, passed 2-17-
1987; Ord. 18-87, passed 8-4-1987; Ord. 35-96, passed 10-7-1996; Ord. 20-00,
passed 11-7-2000; Ord. 18-02, passed 7-16-2002; Ord. 14-10, passed 6-14-2010;
Ord. 05-11, passed 6-13-2011; Ord. 11-11, passed 7-25-2011; Ord. 20-14, passed
1-19-2015; Ord. passed - -)
 
Monthly Water Rates
Monthly minimum billing to 1,496 gallons $15.55
Next 2,992 gallons                       $1.4238 per 100 gallons
Next 67,320 gallons                      $0.8997 per 100 gallons
Next 77,792 gallons                      $0.6110 per 100 gallons
Over 149,600 gallons                     $0.4746 per 100 gallons
 
(Ord. 32-96, passed 10-7-1996; Ord. 10-00, passed 6-26-2000; Ord. 06-08, passed
4-14-2008; Ord. 13-10, passed 6-14-2010; Ord. 06-11, passed 6-13-2011; Ord. 12-
11, passed 7-25-2011; Ord. 19-14, passed 1-19-2015; Ord. passed - -)
EXHIBIT 4 VILLAGE FORMS, PERMITS AND APPLICATIONS.
THE VILLAGE OF BLUFFTON
APPLICATION FOR SPECIAL EVENTS
APPLICANT: ____________________________   EVENT: ____________________________
Address 1 ________________________________   Address 1
___________________________
Address 2 ________________________________   Address 2
___________________________
Phone No: _______________________________   Phone No:
___________________________
Dates of Event:
__________________________________________________________________
Description of Event:
_____________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
List the Services, Vendors, Contractors, Etc. Involved:
Vendors:    ________________________________   Type
_____________________________
       _________________________________   Type _____________________________
       _________________________________   Type _____________________________
       _________________________________   Type _____________________________
       _________________________________   Type _____________________________
Safety Services Provided: (Applicant must provide a map of plans and any other
information required as necessary)
Traffic Control:     Local Police - Number needed ____   Other Service - Number
needed _______
Security:       Local Police - Number needed ____   Other Service - Number
needed _______
EMS Services:    Local Service [ ]   Other Service [ ]
Fire Dept:       Local Service [ ]   Other Service [ ]
Number of Officers required to cover security will be determined and required
on a case by case basis.
Alcohol is Served: Yes _______ No _______ Applicant is responsible for
obtaining the proper alcohol permit from the Division of Liquor Control prior
to the event.
Insurer: (Village listed as Additional Insured)
____________________________________________
                        (Attach Certificate of insurance)
I understand that the granting of this permit for the special event creates no
agreement or guarantee, express or implied, to any person or entity for any
liability whatsoever connected with this special event. Any liability is the
sole responsibility of the person or organization responsible for the special
event. By signing this application, I acknowledge that all statements made
herein are true and correct and that I have the authority to bind the
organization that I represent.
Applicants Signature _______________________   Date:
_______________________________
APPROVED:
Mayor ___________________________________   Date:
________________________________
   Attach additional sheets as necessary
(Ord. 17-02, passed - -2002; Ord. 28-02, passed 11-25-2002)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE AND RECYCLING
      
51.   WATER REGULATIONS
      
52.   SANITARY SEWER REGULATIONS
      53.   STORM SEWER REGULATIONS
      54.   UTILITY RATES AND CHARGES
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND RECYCLING
Section
Garbage and Recycling
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Contract and rates
   
50.03   Containers
   
50.04   Placement of containers
   
50.05   Additional rules and regulations
   
50.06   Limited franchise; contractor
   
50.07   Regulations governing contractors
Rules for Materials at the Bluffton Yard Waste Recycling Center
   
50.20   Definitions
   
50.21   Restrictions
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GARBAGE AND RECYCLING
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL UNIT. All units other than residential units as
defined in this section.
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   RECYCLABLE MATERIAL. Plastic milk jugs, plastic soft drink bottles (1 and
2), colored plastic detergent containers, clear, brown and green glass
containers, aluminum cans, aluminum foil and pie pans, tin and metal cans,
corrugated cardboard, newspapers and magazines.
   RECYCLING BIN. A 65-gallon capacity bin in which recyclable material are to
be placed and commingled by the occupants of each residential unit, unless
served by other storage units.
   REFUSE. All rejected waste matter accumulating in the village, which
includes such matter as rags, paper, old clothes, shoes, barrels, boxes,
baskets, worn-out furniture (including bedsprings, mattresses, stuffed
furniture and appliances), carpet, glass and glassware, ashes, yard clippings,
brush and branch clippings when bound in bundles of convenient size, toys,
bicycles and all similar materials, but does not include earth, sand, brick,
stone, plaster or other substances accumulated as a result of building or
remodeling operations.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT. One or two residences under a common roof. For the purpose
of this contract a SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE is one unit and a TWO-FAMILY
RESIDENCE shall be the equivalent of two residential units. A place of abode of
a person or persons that received either directly or indirectly, either water
or sewage service, and being subject to mandatory garbage and recycling
service.
   VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR. The Village Administrator of the Village of Bluffton,
Ohio.
(Ord. 14-83, passed 11-1-1983; Ord. 3-87, passed 2-17-1987; Ord. 3-89, passed
2-21-1989; Ord. 2-92, passed 3-3-1992; Ord. 4-00, passed 4-10-2000; Ord. 19-03,
passed 10-13-2003; Ord. 07-06, passed 5-8-2006; Ord. 03-09, passed 5-11-2009;
Ord. 13-13, passed 5-13-2013; Ord. 05-16, passed -20-2016)
§ 50.02 CONTRACT AND RATES.
   (A)   The Village Administrator is hereby authorized to enter into a
contract for the collection of garbage, refuse and recyclables with a
contractor who will furnish all labor, materials and equipment necessary for
the collection and disposal of garbage, refuse and recyclables from residential
units within the village.
   (B)   The rates to be charged for the collection, removal and disposal of
garbage, refuse and recyclables in the village is found in
Exhibit 2 in Chapter 40.
   (C)   The billing shall be made to the titleholder of the property so
serviced.
   (D)   Each residential unit shall be permitted to dispose of an unlimited
amount of garbage, refuse and recyclables, which was generated at that
residence.
   (E)   It will be considered a violation of this subchapter to place for
pickup articles generated at another location.
(Ord. 22-82, passed 10-19-1982; Ord. 14-83, passed 11-1-1983; Ord. 3-87, passed
2-17-1987; Ord. 3-89, passed 2-21-1989; Ord. 2-92, passed 3-3-1992; Ord. 4-00,
passed 4-10-2000; Ord. 19-03, passed 10-13-2003; Ord. 07-06, passed 5-8-2006;
Ord. 03-09, passed 5-11-2009; Ord. 13-13, passed 5-13-2013; Ord. 05-16, passed
-20-2016) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 CONTAINERS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of each person or family to utilize the carts
provided by the contractor for holding garbage and refuse to be collected. All
garbage shall be thoroughly drained of water and wrapped before being deposited
in such container.
   (B)   The contractor shall collect items such as toys, papers, furniture and
other items, either in bundles or otherwise for collection by packer-type
equipment. Such bundles shall not be greater than 18 inches in diameter or
longer than four feet.
(Ord. 14-83, passed 11-1-1983; Ord. 3-87, passed 2-17-1987; Ord. 3-89, passed
2-21-1989; Ord. 2-92, passed 3-3-1992; Ord. 4-00, passed 4-10-2000; Ord. 07-06,
passed 5-8-2006; Ord. 03-09, passed 5-11-2009; Ord. 13-13, passed 5-13-2013;
Ord. 05-16, passed -20-2016) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 PLACEMENT OF CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Duty of user. It shall be the duty of any user of the service provided
for herein to place garbage, refuse and recycling containers adjacent to the
curb side or alley which is the route of the vehicle collecting the same, and
the contractor shall be under no obligation to collect any garbage or refuse
not made easily accessible.
   (B)   Placing recyclable material. On the regularly scheduled garbage
collection day, residents of one-family, two-family and trailers shall place
the recycling cart at the curb in front of the residential unit, next to their
regular garbage containers.
   (C)   Residents. All persons residing in residential units in the village
affected by this subchapter shall place their recyclable material in the
appropriate recycling bin and keep such material separate from their other
garbage and refuse.
   (D)   Collection of recyclable materials.
      (1)   Upon the placement of recyclable waste material at a designated
recycling collection location for collection by an authorized recycling
contractor, the recyclable waste material shall become the property of the
authorized recycling contractor.
      (2)   During the 24-hour period commencing at 6:00 p.m. on any day
preceding a day designated for collection of recyclable waste material, no
person, other than an authorized recycling contractor, shall remove recyclable
waste material, which has been placed at a designated recycling collection
location. Any and each such collection in violation hereof from one or more
designated recycling collection locations during said 24-hour period shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense punishable as provided in §
50.99.
      (3)   Nothing in this division (D) shall limit the right of an individual
person, organization or other entity to donate, sell or otherwise dispose of
recyclable waste material, provided that any such disposal is in accordance
with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 14-83, passed 11-1-1983; Ord. 3-87, passed 2-17-1987; Ord. 3-89, passed
2-21-1989; Ord. 2-92, passed 3-3-1992; Ord. 4-00, passed 4-10-2000; Ord. 07-06,
passed 5-8-2006; Ord. 03-09, passed 5-11-2009; Ord. 13-13, passed 5-13-2013;
Ord. 05-16, passed -20-2016) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 ADDITIONAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Village Administrator shall have full and complete authority to make
such other rules and regulations not inconsistent herewith pertaining to the
collection and disposal of garbage and refuse and further shall have authority
to cause a discontinuance of service whenever it shall appear that a person
receiving such service has violated any of the provisions of this chapter or
has refused to obey the rules and regulations made known to him or her provided
for in this subchapter.
(Ord. 14-83, passed 11-1-1983; Ord. 3-87, passed 2-17-1987; Ord. 3-89, passed
2-21-1989; Ord. 2-92, passed 3-3-1992; Ord. 4-00, passed 4-10-2000; Ord. 07-06,
passed 5-8-2006; Ord. 03-09, passed 5-11-2009; Ord. 13-13, passed 5-13-2013;
Ord. 05-16, passed -20-2016)
§ 50.06 LIMITED FRANCHISE; CONTRACTOR.
   (A)   A limited franchise is hereby created for the purpose of collecting
garbage, refuse and recyclables from residential customers, but not for
commercial and industrial customers. No private person, natural or corporate,
shall have the right to engage in the service provided herein, during the life
of the contract, other than the contractor and, in addition, the granting of
such a franchise to any other such a person shall be expressly prohibited.
   (B)   The residents of the village and all private contractors collecting
garbage and refuse within the village shall make every effort to cooperate in a
recycling program to save landfills and to reduce costs.
(Ord. 3-87, passed 2-17-1987; Ord. 3-89, passed 2-21-1989; Ord. 2-92, passed 3-
3-1992; Ord. 4-00, passed 4-10-2000; Ord. 07-06, passed 5-8-2006; Ord. 03-09,
passed 5-11-2009; Ord. 13-13, passed 5-13-2013; Ord. 05-16, passed -20-2016)
§ 50.07 REGULATIONS GOVERNING CONTRACTORS.
   The following regulations govern contractors.
   (A)   All contractors shall file the required village income tax reports.
   (B)   All contractors shall utilize an enclosed, leak proof, packer-type or
roll-off box type compactor or container for all collections.
   (C)   All truck, trailers and other conveyances or equipment used to
collect, haul or transport refuse shall, at all times, be kept clean, free from
flies, pests and odor and in good repair as well as uniformly painted to the
reasonable satisfaction of the Village Administrator.
   (D)   Vehicles shall not be parked or stored on city streets.
   (E)   The contractor shall be totally responsible to meet all requirements
of Allen County and Hancock County Boards of Health and the Ohio EPA.
(Ord. 3-87, passed 2-17-1987; Ord. 3-89, passed 2-21-1989; Ord. 2-92, passed 3-
3-1992; Ord. 4-00, passed 4-10-2000; Ord. 07-06, passed 5-8-2006; Ord. 03-09,
passed 5-11-2009; Ord. 13-13, passed 5-13-2013; Ord. 05-16, passed -20-2016)
RULES FOR MATERIALS AT THE BLUFFTON YARD WASTE RECYCLING CENTER
§ 50.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FILL MATERIAL. Earth, sand, stone, brick, concrete and asphalt.
   GARBAGE. Animal, vegetable wastes or any food item intended for or resulting
from handling, preparation or cooking for consumption as food.
   REFUSE MATERIAL. All rejected waste matter, which includes, but is not
limited to, such matter as rags, paper, old clothes, shoes, barrels, boxes,
baskets, worn-out furniture (including bedsprings, mattresses, stuffed
furniture and appliances), carpet, glass and glassware, ashes, garden
clippings, toys, bicycles, automotive parts and all similar materials, plaster
or other substances accumulated as a result of building or remodeling
operations.
   VILLAGE INHABITANTS. All water and sewer customers within the village
corporation limits.
   YARD WASTE RECYCLABLE MATERIAL. Grass clippings, leaves, brush, trees and
tree trimmings.
(Ord. 1-03, passed 2-10-2003)
§ 50.21 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Only village inhabitants are permitted to dump, place or deposit yard
waste recyclable material in the Bluffton Yard Waste Recycle Center, and only
in that area designated by the village, and only during those times as posted
or designated by the village. Only village inhabitants are permitted to dump,
place or deposit fill material with specific permission of the Village
Administrator at the Bluffton Yard Waste Recycle Center.
   (B)   Only materials designated by signage shall be permitted to be placed
in designated areas and only in those areas designated.
(Ord. 1-03, passed 2-10-2003) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
50.01 through
50.07 shall be deemed guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not more
than $50 for each offense. Any such violation shall constitute a separate
offense on each successive day continued.
   (C)   Any person who dumps places or deposits any material not permitted by
§
50.21(A) (including but not limited to garbage or refuse material) or any
person who dumps, places or deposits any material allowed by §
50.21(A) but not during the times, places or with the permission required by §
50.21(A) shall be deemed to be littering in violation of R.C. § 3767.32. (This
is a third degree misdemeanor.)
(Ord. 3-87, passed 2-17-1987; Ord. 3-89, passed 2-21-1989; Ord. 2-92, passed 3-
3-1992; Ord. 4-00, passed 4-10-2000; Ord. 1-03, passed 2-10-2003; Ord. 07-06,
passed 5-8-2006; Ord. 03-09, passed 5-11-2009; Ord. 13-13, passed 5-13-2013;
Ord. 05-16, passed -20-2016)
CHAPTER 51: WATER REGULATIONS
Section
   
51.01   Sanitary sewer connections required
   
51.02   Sanitary sewer and/or water connections and tap-in charges
   
51.03   Backflow
   
51.04   Restricting the acceptance of sewage and sludge
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 SANITARY SEWER CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is necessary to require property owners to install sanitary sewer
connections to the village sanitary sewer system and that the village has the
authority to require such connections pursuant to R.C. § 729.06.
   (B)   The Fiscal Officer shall cause written notice hereof to be given by to
the property owners within the village that have yet to establish sanitary
sewer connections and notice of the number and character of the connections
required by personal service or certified mail service to the owners. The
Fiscal Officer is authorized to serve the notice on any property owner who
cannot be found by publication one time in the Bluffton News.
   (C)   The owners of each lot and parcel of land that do not now have a
connection to the sanitary sewer and are notified by the Fiscal Officer as set
forth above, shall have 30 days from the date of service of the notice to
install said connections. If such are not installed by the property owners, the
connection work shall be done by the village and the costs thereof, together
with a forfeiture of 5%, shall be assessed against the lots and lands for which
said connections are made.
(Ord. 14-03, passed 7-28-2003)
§ 51.02 SANITARY SEWER AND/OR WATER CONNECTIONS AND TAP-IN CHARGES.
   (A)   Except in the case of property owned by the village, no person,
corporation, public agency, partnership or association whatsoever shall
connect, or cause to be connected, any building or other structure, or
industrial waste system either directly or indirectly with the municipal
sanitary sewer system, or storm water drainage, to a municipal storm sewer
system and/or a water service to the municipal waterworks system without first
securing from the Village Administrator a permit for such purpose in a form
prescribed by said Village Administrator, and, in addition, prior to the
issuance of such permit, the applicant therefor shall first pay the charge
provided for in division (B) below, and any applicable additional charges
determined in accordance with any other provision of this section.
   (B)   The Village Administrator shall not issue a permit for the purpose
described in division (A) above until the applicant therefor shall have paid a
charge which is intended to reimburse the village for reasonable costs of
inspection and other associated costs related to the making of connections to
the municipal sanitary sewerage system, storm sewer system, and/or waterworks
system including the excavation and street opening if required; the tapping of
the main in addition to the materials and labor to bring the service to just
outside of the public right-of-way and/or the easements controlled by the
village including the cost of the water meters, all related to the making of
the connection to the municipal water and sewerage systems.
   (C)   Where the connection is made to that portion of the sewerage system
served by trunk or interceptor sewers constructed and available for use, the
Village Administrator shall not issue a permit for the purpose described in
division (A) above until the applicant therefor shall have paid, in addition to
the charge specified in division (B) above, a tap-in charge to be determined in
accordance with
Exhibit 3 in Chapter 40.
      (1)   Such incremental charges following are designed to offset the
interest costs incurred by the village in issuing notes and bonds to pay the
village’s share of the cost of constructing improvements and extensions to the
sanitary sewerage, storm sewer and/or waterworks systems.
      (2)   In the event that more than one metered tap is required for potable
water, the applicant will be charged the appropriate benefitted unit cost for
each tap.
      (3)   Unmetered water tap fees for fire protection shall be one-half of
the benefitted unit cost above plus costs for time and material if the village
actually makes the tap.
   (D)   Charges for connections made outside the boundaries of the village
shall be 200% of the applicable charge for a connection made within the
village.
   (E)   The permits and charges provided for in this section shall not be
deemed to preclude the subsequent levy of assessments against benefitted
properties to provide funds for the construction of sanitary sewers, storm
sewers and/or water lines required to provide local service to such properties,
and the permit and charges provided for by this section shall be in addition to
any other permits and charges required by any other legislation and regulations
of the village.
   (F)   Tap fees shall be collected when applicable at the time of application
for building permit or development permit and prior to making taps. Where fees
are based on time and material costs, fees will be estimated and an adjustment
will be made upon completion if necessary. All fees will be reimbursed if taps
are not made. All shall be deposited in the appropriate sewer and waterworks
revenue funds.
   (G)   Replacement permits will be applied for at the time of construction
and prior to making the reconnection.
   (H)   Any and all extenuating circumstances not covered in the above
provisions may be negotiated and/or waived by the Village Administrator with
Council approval. This includes, but not limited to, zoning changes and/or
property classifications not previously considered.
   (I)   In the event that the Village Administrator shall ascertain that any
property has been connected directly or indirectly to the municipal sewerage
system in violation of the provisions of this section, the Village
Administrator is authorized to disconnect such property or have the same
disconnected until such violation shall cease. The village shall be reimbursed
by the violator for expenses incurred by the village in making such
disconnection.
(Ord. 5-96, passed 3-11-1996; Ord. 34-96, passed 10-7-1996; Ord. 11-97, passed
6-9-1997; Ord. 9-98, passed 6-22-1998; Ord. 13-01, passed 7-25-2001; Ord. 02-
05, passed 4-25-2005) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 BACKFLOW.
   (A)   If, in the judgment of the Administrator, an approved backflow
prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water system, the
Administrator will give notice to the water consumer to install such an
approved device immediately. The water consumer shall, at his or her own
expense, install such an approved device at a location and in a manner approved
by the Administrator and shall have inspections and tests made of such approved
devices as required by the Administrator.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained, any connection whereby a
private, auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public
water supply of the village may enter the supply or distributing system of said
municipality, unless such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the
method of connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the
Administrator and by the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Administrator to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of industrial and other properties serviced by the
public water supply where actual or potential hazards to the public water
supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be made a matter of
public record and shall be repeated as often as the Administrator shall deem
necessary.
   (D)   The Administrator or his or her duly authorized representative shall
have the right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a
connection to the public water supply or distribution system of the village for
the purpose of inspecting the piping system or systems thereof. On demand, the
owner, lessee or occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the
Administrator any information, which he or she may request regarding the piping
system or systems or water use on such property. The refusal of such
information, when demanded, shall, within the discretion of the Administrator,
is deemed evidence to the presence of improper connections as provided in this
section.
   (E)   The Administrator of the village is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water service
to any property wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this
section is know to exist, and to take such other precautionary measures as he
or she may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the
public water supply distribution mains. Water service to such property shall
not be restored until such conditions shall have been eliminated or corrected
in compliance with the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 06-10, passed 4-26-2010) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 RESTRICTING THE ACCEPTANCE OF SEWAGE AND SLUDGE.
   (A)   Commercial. The village sanitary sewerage plant will not accept
commercial sewage, sludge and related materials for process and treatment into
the sewage treatment plant by a commercial hauler.
   (B)   Residential.
      (1)   Residents residing in or near the village, who pay for village
sanitary sewerage services, may apply for a permit to have their private septic
tank pumped and then dumped into the village treatment plant at no cost.
      (2)   The contractor will apply for the permit at the Administrator’s
office. The permit will then be issued to the contractor at the time the work
is to be done. The contractor will present his or her permit to the treatment
plant operator who will return it to the Administrator’s office. This permit
expires in 48 hours from the time of issue, at which time the sewage will no
longer be accepted and must be disposed elsewhere at the contractor’s expense.
Other arrangements may be allowed by contacting the Administrator.
      (3)   The office hours are from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. and the sewage
treatment plant hours are 7:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
(Ord. 33-96, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   In the event that a permit is not applied for as required in §
51.02(G), the village will apply a fine of $25.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of §
51.02 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be fined not
exceeding $25 per day for any such violation and each day during which such
violation shall continue shall be a separate offense.
      (2)   All charges collected pursuant to the provisions of division (C)(1)
above shall be deposited in the appropriate Sewer or Waterworks Revenue Fund.
(Ord. 5-96, passed 3-11-1996; Ord. 34-96, passed 10-7-1996; Ord. 11-97, passed
6-9-1997; Ord. 9-98, passed 6-22-1998; Ord. 13-01, passed 7-25-2001; Ord. 02-
05, passed 4-25-2005)
CHAPTER 52: SANITARY SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Operation of sewer utility
   
52.03   Compliance with state and federal law
   
52.04   Right of entry
   
52.05   Responsibility for obstructing or damaging sewers
   
52.06   Special agreements
Building Sewers and Connections
   
52.20   Permit required for sewer connections
   
52.21   Owner's liability; duty to indemnify village
   
52.22   Requirement of separate sewers; exemption
   
52.23   Use of old building sewers
   
52.24   Ownership of building sewers
   
52.25   Building sewer construction standards
   
52.26   Excavations
   
52.27   Control manhole
   
52.28   Inspection
   
52.29   Privately owned sanitary lift pump requirements
   
52.30   Illicit connections to the sewer
   
52.31   Fat, oil, grease and sand (FOGS) interceptors
Wastewater Admissibility
   
52.45   Unlawful activity
   
52.46   Discharge of storm water and other unpolluted drainage
   
52.47   Privy, privy vaults, cesspools or septic tanks
   
52.48   General prohibited discharges
   
52.49   Septic prohibited discharges
   
52.50   Dilution
   
52.51   Right to revision
   
52.52   Temporary discharge permit
   
52.53   Septage receiving
Rates and Charges
   
52.65   Definitions
   
52.66   Collection
   
52.67   Connection charge
   
52.68   Billings
Enforcement
   
52.80   Authorization of village to enforce
   
52.81   Notice of violations
   
52.82   Administrative fines
   
52.83   Emergency suspension
   
52.84   Termination of discharge
   
52.85   Cost recovery
   
52.86   Remedies nonexclusive
   
52.87   Unpaid charges
   
52.88   Right to appeal
Statutory reference:
   Power to License Sewer Tappers and Vault Cleaners, see R.C. § 715.27
   Power to Regulate Water Closets and Privies, see R.C. § 715.40
   Power to Construct Sewerage System, see R.C. §§ 715.40, 717.01
   Compulsory Sewer Connections, see R.C. § 729.06
   Sewerage Rates, see R.C. § 729.49
   Regulations to Control House Sewers and Connections, see R.C. § 729.51
   Weekly Deposit of Sewer Rentals Collected, see R.C. § 729.52
   Untreated Sewage, see R.C. § 3701.59
   Interference with Sewage Flow, see R.C. § 4933.24
   Sewerage Districts, see R.C. §§ 727.44 et seq.
   Assessments, see R.C. Ch. 729
   Household Sewage Disposal Systems, see O.A.C. Ch. 3701-29
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, (Pub. L, 92-500) also known as
the Clean Water Act of 1977, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq. (Pub. L. 95-
217); as well as any guidelines, limitations and standards promulgated by the
Environmental Protection Agency pursuant to the Act.
   ASCE. American Society of Civil Engineers.
   ASSISTANT VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR. Operations manager of wastewater treatment
plant and sewer systems. Hired by, and reports to, Village Administrator.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (or B.O.D.). Of sewage, sewage effluent, polluted
waters or industrial wastes, shall mean the quantity of dissolved oxygen in
milligrams per liter required during stabilization of the decomposable organic
matter by aerobic biochemical action under standard laboratory procedures for
five days at 20°C. The laboratory determinations shall be made in accordance
with procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
   BUILDING (or HOUSE) DRAIN. The lowest horizontal piping of a building
drainage system which receives the discharge from waste and other drainage
pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the foundation wall of the building.
   BUILDING DRAIN, SANITARY. A building drain which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
   BUILDING DRAIN, STORM. A building drain which conveys storm water or other
clean water drainage, but no wastewater.
   BUILDING (or HOUSE) LATERAL SEWER. The extension from the building drain to
the public sewer system or other place of disposal.
   BUILDING SEWER, SANITARY. A building lateral sewer which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
   BUILDING SEWER, STORM. A building lateral sewer which conveys storm water or
other clear water drainage, but no sanitary or industrial sewage.
   CFR. Code of Federal Regulations.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (or C.O.D.). Of sewage, sewage effluent, polluted
waters or industrial wastes, is a measure of the oxygen equivalent of that
portion of the organic matter in a sample that is susceptible to oxidation by a
strong chemical oxidant. The laboratory determination shall be made in
accordance with procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS.
      (1)   Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH, and fecal coliform
bacteria, plus additional pollutants if the treatment works was designed to
treat such pollutants, and in fact does remove such pollutants to a substantial
degree. The term substantial degree is not subject to precise definition. Based
upon normal domestic waste, substantial degree generally contemplates removals
in the order of 80% or greater. Minor incidental removals in the order of 10%
to 30% are not considered substantial. Examples of the additional pollutants
which may be compatible include:
         (a)   Chemical oxygen demand;
         (b)   Total organic carbon;
         (c)   Phosphorus and phosphorus compounds;
         (d)   Nitrogen and nitrogen compounds; and
         (e)   Fats, oils and greases of animal or vegetable origin.
      (2)   Except as prohibited where these materials would interfere with the
operation of the treatment works.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE. Composite samples shall be comprised of a series of grab
samples collected over a 24-hour period and proportionate in volume to the
sewage flow rate at the time of sampling. Such samples shall be collected at
such times and locations, and in such a fashion, as to be representative of the
facility's overall performance.
   DAILY DISCHARGE. Discharge of a pollutant measured during a calendar day or
any 24-hour period that reasonably represents the calendar for purposes of
sampling.
   DOMESTIC SEPTAGE. Liquid and/or semi-solid material removed from a septic
tank, septic system, cesspool, portable toilet, or other similar treatment or
storage works, that is generated only by non-commercial or non-industrial
users.
   DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Wastewater from typical residential users and having
pollutant characteristics of not greater than 250 mg/l BOD, 250 mg/l total
suspended solids, 25 mg/l nitrogen compounds and eight mg/l phosphorus
compounds.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EFFLUENT. Water, together with any wastes that may be present, flowing out
of a drain, sewer, receptacle, or outlet.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY, OR EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, Ohio EPA, or where appropriate the term may also be used as a
designation for the Village Administrator or other duly authorized official of
said agency.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any of a number of organisms common to the intestinal tract
of humans and animals, whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking,
dispensing, storage, sale, and serving of food.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time basis
with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration of
time.
   FATS, OILS, GREASES (FOG). A group of substances, including hydrocarbons,
fatty acids, soaps, fats, waxes, oils or any other material, that is extracted
by a solvent from an acidified sample and that is not volatilized during the
laboratory test procedures. Greases and oils are defined by the method of their
determination in accordance with Standard Methods.
   GREASE AND OIL OF ANIMAL AND VEGETABLE ORIGIN. Substances of biodegradable
nature such as are discharged by meat-packing, vegetable oil and fat
industries, food processors, canneries, and restaurants.
   GREASE AND OIL OF MINERAL ORIGIN. Substances that are less readily
biodegradable than grease and oil of animal or vegetable origin; and are
derived from a petroleum or synthetic sources. Such substances include
machinery lubricating oils, gasoline station wastes, petroleum refinery wastes,
and storage depot wastes.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks, such as chemical toilets,
campers, trailers, septic tanks, vacuum pump trucks, and the like.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including non-biodegradable solids.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Any solid, liquid, or gaseous substance or form of energy
discharged, permitted to flow, or escape from an industrial, manufacturing,
commercial, or business process, or from the development, recovery, or
processing of any natural resource carried on by a person and shall further
mean any waste from an industrial user.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering a public sewer system, including building
lateral sewer service connections, from the ground through such means as, but
not limited to, defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, or manhole walls.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from surface and/or ground
sources without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW. The water discharged into a public sewer system, including building
lateral sewer service connections from such sources as, but not limited to,
roof drains, cellar, yard and area drains, foundation drains, cistern
overflows, cooling water discharges, drains from springs and swampy areas,
manhole covers, cross-connections from storm sewers, catch basins, storm
waters, surface run-off, street wastewaters or drainage. Inflow does not
include and is distinguished from infiltration.
   INFLUENT. The water, together with any wastes that may be present, flowing
into a drain, sewer, receptacle, or outlet.
   INSPECTION OPENING (CLEAN-OUT). An access point to a sanitary service
lateral installed for the purposes of inspecting and cleaning of the sanitary
service lateral.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the village through the
Village Administrator to inspect and approve the installation of building
sewers and their connection to the public sewer system.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, both:
      (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the sewage works, its treatment processes or
operations, its sludge processes, or its selected sludge use or disposal
methods; and
      (2)   Therefore, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the
village's NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation) of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance
with the following statutory provisions, regulations, or permits issued
thereunder or more stringent federal, state, or local laws, rules, or
regulations: Section 405 of the Clean Water Act, the Solid Waste Disposal Act
(SWDA) (including Title II, more commonly referred to as the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), and including state regulations contained
in any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the
SWDA), the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, and the Marine
Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act.
   LOCAL LIMIT. Specific discharge limits developed and enforced by the Village
of Bluffton upon industrial or commercial facilities to implement the general
and specific discharge prohibitions listed in 40 CFR 403.5 (a)(1) and (b).
   MAY. Indicates a discretionary condition.
   MUNICIPALITY. Means the Municipality of Bluffton, Ohio.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM PERMIT (NPDES) PERMIT. A
permit a permit issued to a POTW pursuant to Section 402 of the Act and R.C.
Chapter 6111.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and overflows, into a
watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or ground water.
   NON-COMPLIANCE FEE. A combined administrative and penalty fee assessed to
sewer customers who fail to comply with any corrective action so ordered by the
village, or who fail to cooperate with any inspection or investigative actions
deemed necessary by the village.
   NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to health or offensive to the senses
or an obstruction to the free use of property so as to interfere with the
comfort or enjoyment of life or property.
   OAC. Ohio Administrative Code.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Costs, including labor, materials,
supplies, equipment accessories and appurtenances, required to operate the
facilities, keep the facilities in operating condition and maintain the
capacity and performance during the service life of the treatment works for
which such works were designed and constructed.
   ORC. Ohio Revised Code.
   OTHER SERVICE CHARGES. Tap charges, connection charges, area charges and
other identifiable charges other than user charges, debt service charges and
excessive strength surcharges.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of the POTW's NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude
or duration of a violation).
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, partnership, co-
partnership, joint stock company, trust, estate, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency, the State of Ohio, the United
States of America, or other legal entity, or their legal representatives,
agents, or assigns. The masculine gender shall include the feminine and the
singular shall include the plural where indicated by the context.
   pH. The logarithm (to the base ten) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion
activity of a solution expressed in gram atoms per liter of solution.
   PHOSPHORUS. The total phosphorus content of a sample including all the
orthophosphates and condensed phosphates, both soluble and insoluble, and
organic and inorganic species and referred to in Standard Methods as total
phosphorus.
   POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand,
cellar dirt and industrial, municipal, and agricultural waste discharged into
water.
   POLLUTION. An alteration of the quality of the waters of the state by waste
to a degree which unreasonably affects such waters for beneficial uses or
facilities which serve such beneficial uses. The man-made or man-induced
alteration of the chemical, physical, biological, and radiological integrity of
water.
   PREMISES. A parcel of real estate, including any single improvement thereon,
which is determined by the village to be a single user for purposes of
receiving, using, and payment for service. Any additional improvement on the
same parcel of real estate which is determined by the village to be a user
shall be separately connected to the sewer for the purpose of receiving, using,
and payment for service.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A pipe or conduit which is not owned by public authority.
   PROPER OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. Procedures executed in a prudent, cost-
effective, and workmanlike manner which achieve the highest and/or required
effluent quality of industrial discharge attainable in conformance with the
best available technology and practices. Proper operation and maintenance
requirements include avoidance of operational error, adherence to manual
instructions, preventive maintenance, avoidance of careless or improper
operation, neat accurate sampling, the handling of chemicals, lubricants,
solvents, and the like in a safe and organized manner, avoidance of accidental
spillage, keeping operating logs, and any other activities which produce the
desired effluent quality.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A pipe or conduit which is owned and controlled by the village
and will consist of the following increments:
      COLLECTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect wastewaters
from individual point source discharges.
      FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
      INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collector sewers to a treatment facility.
      PUMPING STATION. A station positioned in the public sewer system at which
wastewater is pumped to a higher level.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works owned in this
instance by the village, except that it does not include pipes, sewers or other
conveyances not connected to a facility providing treatment. The term includes
any devices and systems used in the storage, treatment, recycling and
reclamation of municipal sewage or compatible industrial wastes. Also referred
to as wastewater treatment plant (WWTP).
   RECEIVING STREAM. The watercourse, stream, or body of water receiving the
waters finally discharged from the wastewater treatment plant.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
sewage works equipment to maintain the capacity and performance for which such
works were designed and constructed.
   SANITARY SEWER. A pipe or conduit laid for carrying wastewater and to which
storm, surface, and ground waters and unpolluted industrial wastewater are not
intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is "wastewater".
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, transporting, pumping,
treating, and disposing of sewage and sludge.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or storm water.
   SEWERAGE SYSTEM. The sewerage system shall be classified as sanitary sewers
and storm sewers.
   SHALL. Indicates a mandatory condition.
   SLUDGE. Any solid, semi-solid or liquid waste generated from a municipal,
commercial, or industrial wastewater treatment plant, water supply treatment
plant, or air pollution control facility or any other waste having similar
characteristics and effects as defined in standards issued under Section 402
and 405 of the Federal Act and in the applicable requirements under §§ 3001,
3004 and 4004 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, Pub. L. 94-580, being 42 USC §§
6901 et seq.
   SLUG. Any discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, including but not
limited to an accidental spill or a non-customary batch discharge, which has a
reasonable potential to cause interference or pass through, or in any other way
violate the POTW's regulations, local limits or permit conditions.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water Environment
Federation.
   STORM SEWER. A pipe or conduit laid for receiving storm and surface water,
street wash, or drainage, but excludes domestic sewage or industrial waste.
   STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). Solids which either float on the surface of or
are in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquid and which are removable by
laboratory filtration. Their concentration shall be expressed in milligrams per
liter. Quantitative termination shall be made in accordance with procedures set
forth in Standard Methods.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Those substances referred to in Section 307 (a) of the
Clean Water Act as well as any other known potential substances capable of
producing toxic effects.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to sanitary sewers
and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   UPSET. An exceptional incident in which a user unintentionally and
temporarily is in a state of noncompliance with the standards set forth in this
chapter due to factors beyond the reasonable control of the user, and excluding
noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, lack of preventive
maintenance, or careless or improper operation thereof.
   USER. Any person that discharges, causes, or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the sewerage system.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the wastewater treatment works for
the cost of operation and maintenance of such works pursuant to Section 204(b)
of Pub. L. 92-500, being 33 USC § 1284.
   USER CLASS. The division of wastewater treatment customers by source,
function, waste characteristics, and process or discharge similarities (such
as, residential, commercial, industrial, institutional and governmental).
      COMMERCIAL USER. Any establishment involved in a commercial enterprise,
business or service which, based on a determination by the village, discharges
primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
      GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any federal, state or local governmental user of the
wastewater treatment works.
      INDUSTRIAL USER. Any manufacturing or processing facility that discharges
industrial waste to a publicly owned treatment works.
      INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any establishment involved in a social, charitable,
religious and/or educational function which, based on a determination by the
village, discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from
sanitary conveniences.
      RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment works whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
all dwelling units, and the like.
   UTILITY FEE SCHEDULE. A summary of charges and fees relating to the use of
the village's utilities.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Bluffton, Ohio.
   VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR. The administrative head of the village as defined in
O.A.C. §§ 735.271 and 735.273.
   VILLAGE COUNCIL. The elected legislative authority of the village pursuant
to R.C. § 731.09.
   VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the sewage solids transformed to
gases or vapors when heated at 550°C for 15 to 20 minutes.
   WASTE. Includes sanitary sewage and all other waste substances, liquid,
solid, gaseous, or radioactive, associated with human habitation, or of human
or animal origin, or from any producing, processing, manufacturing, or
industrial operation of whatever nature, including such waste placed within
containers of whatever nature prior to and for purposes of disposal.
   WASTEWATER. The water-carried waste from residences, businesses, and
industrial establishments, singular or in any combination, together with such
ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present.
   WASTEWATER CONSTITUENTS AND CHARACTERISTICS. The individual chemical,
physical, bacteriological, and radiological parameters, including volume, flow
rate, and such other parameters that serve to define, classify, or measure the
contents, quality, quantity, and strength of wastewater.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. Any water, surface or underground, within the
boundaries of the State of Ohio, except confined waters in sewers, tanks, and
the like.
   WEF. The Water Environment Federation
(Ord. 04-21, passed - -)
§ 52.02 OPERATION OF SEWER UTILITY.
   (A)   The management, control and operation of the Village of Bluffton's
sanitary sewage works is hereby vested in the Village Council and Public Works
Department.
   (B)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for users of the sanitary
sewage works and enables the village to comply with all applicable state and
federal laws required by the Clean Water Act of 1977.
   (C)   This chapter shall apply to the village and to persons outside the
village who are, by contract or agreement with the village, users of the
sanitary sewage works. Except as otherwise provided herein, the village shall
administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 04-21, passed - -)
§ 52.03 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND FEDERAL LAW.
   All provisions of this chapter and limits set herein shall comply with any
applicable state and/or federal requirements currently in effect.
(Ord. 04-21, passed - -)
§ 52.04 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   The Public Works Department and other duly authorized employees or
agents of the village bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A), the Public Works Department shall observe all safety rules
applicable to the premises established by the company and the company shall be
held harmless for injury or death to the village employees and the village
shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by village
employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of
the company to maintain safe conditions.
   (C)   The Public Works Department or agents of the Village of Bluffton
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the village holds a duly negotiated easement
for the purpose of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 04-21, passed - -)
§ 52.05 RESPONSIBILITY FOR OBSTRUCTING OR DAMAGING SEWERS.
   If a public sewer becomes obstructed or damaged because any of the
substances identified in this chapter were improperly discharged, the person or
persons responsible for such discharge shall be billed and shall pay for the
expenses incurred by the Public Works Department in cleaning out, repairing, or
rebuilding the sewer.
(Ord. 04-21, passed - -)
§ 52.06 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as prohibiting any
special agreement or arrangement between the village and any person whereby an
industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the POTW
for treatment whether with or without pretreatment, provided that such
agreement does not violate national categorical pretreatment standards for the
specific category of industrial user, provided that there is not impairment of
the functioning of the sewage works by reason of the admission of such wastes,
and provided that no extra costs are incurred by the Public Works Department
without recompense by that person.
(Ord. 04-21, passed - -)
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 52.20 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written zoning building permit from the Village
Administrator, or designated appointee.
   (B)   There shall be one class of building sewer permits. The owner or his
or her agent shall make application on a zoning building permit furnished by
the village. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the
Village Administrator, or designated appointee. A tap fee shall be paid in
conjunction with the permit application in accordance with the utility fee
schedule.
(Ord. 04-21, passed - -)
§ 52.21 OWNER'S LIABILITY; DUTY TO INDEMNIFY VILLAGE.
   (A)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
village from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned
by the installation of the building sewer.
   (B)   The owner of real estate for which a building sewer has been
installed, is financially and otherwise responsible for the proper operation
and maintenance of the building sewer, from the building itself to the edge the
property line, or to the public right-of-way.
(Ord. 04-21, passed - -)
§ 52.22 REQUIREMENT OF SEPARATE SEWERS; EXEMPTION.
   (A)   All structures shall have an individual sanitary service lateral,
although some larger structures may require additional service laterals.
Commercial and industrial structures shall not share a service lateral with any
other structure.
   (B)   Exemptions. Under certain circumstances, and with the approval of the
Village Administrator, single-family residential structures on adjacent or
adjoining lots, or structures constructed on the same lot, may be permitted to
share a single service lateral. Any approved shared service lateral must be
installed to specifications listed in §
52.24, with the addition of an inspection opening on each service lateral
within one foot of the individual connection to the shared service lateral.
(Ord. 04-21, passed - -)
§ 52.23 USE OF OLD BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, upon examination and testing by the inspector, to meet all
requirements of this chapter. All testing as required by the village shall be
the responsibility of the building owner requesting connection to the old
building sewers.
(Ord. 04-21, passed - -)
§ 52.24 OWNERSHIP OF BUILDING SEWERS.
   Upon adoption of this chapter, property owners are responsible for building
sewers or laterals from the building to the property line, right-of-way, or
easement. Any building sewer or lateral replaced or installed after the
adoption of this chapter, and upon a passing inspection from the village,
including the absence of all inflow and infiltration, will be under ownership
of the village, from the right-of-way or property line to the sewer main and
the property owner will be responsible from the right-of-way or property line
to the building.
(Ord. 04-21, passed - -)
§ 52.25 BUILDING SEWER CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, joint
testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of the
building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
village. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures shall comply with the specifications of the ASCE
Manuals and Reports on Engineering Practice No. 60 WEF Manual of Practice No.
FD-5.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (C)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, sump pumps or other sources of surface run-
off or ground water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is
connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (D)   All exterior sanitary sewer pipes shall be constructed of six-inch
pipe, or larger where applicable, of gasketed polyvinyl chloride (PVC) SDR 35
pipe. Solvent-weld pipe shall not be permitted. Sewers must have a gradual fall
of not less than one foot per 100 feet of length, or one-eighth inch per foot,
with no sharp breaks in grade. Changes in direction must be made with 22° or
45° fittings or wyes. Ninety degree fittings are only permitted where a service
lateral makes a vertical drop. Sewer pipes shall be bedded and backfilled to a
minimum of 12 inches above the top elevation of the sewer with #8, #57, or #67
stone or gravel.
      (1)   Sewer excavations made within the paved area of any street, road,
driveway, or under any area where a sidewalk will be constructed, shall be
backfilled to the bottom edge of any existing pavement or sidewalk with either
#57 stone, or compacted #304 stone. Any street excavation that will not be
immediately paved over shall be topped off with a minimum of three inches of
compacted #411 stone or gravel, or a minimum of three inches of compacted cold
mix asphalt.
      (2)   No sanitary sewer shall be constructed within ten feet of any
potable water line. If a sanitary sewer must cross a potable water line, the
sewer shall cross under the water line with a minimum of 18 inches of
clearance. All sanitary sewers shall be installed to maintain a minimum five-
foot distance from any other public or private utility, and at no time shall
any other utility, either private or publicly owned, share or be installed in
the same trench as a sanitary sewer.
   (E)   Inspection openings (clean-outs) shall be installed within ten feet of
the edge of the building served, and every 100 feet thereafter. Inspection
openings shall consist of a six-inch diameter straight tee, clean-out tee, or a
two-way clean-out. Four-inch inspection openings are permitted, but only within
ten feet of the building served. Wyes shall not be used for inspection
openings. Inspection openings shall be topped with a threaded clean-out plug
and shall terminate at or just below finished grade. Inspection openings
installed within a paved or gravel driving surface shall be topped with an
approved cast-iron clean-out cover.
(Ord. 04-21, passed - -)
§ 52.26 EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installations must be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights to protect the public from hazards. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the village.
(Ord. 04-21, passed - -)
§ 52.27 CONTROL MANHOLE.
   Each user discharging industrial wastes into a public sewer shall install a
suitable control manhole(s) with such necessary meters and other appurtenances
in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of
the wastes, including domestic sewage. Such manhole(s), when required, shall be
accessible, safely located, and constructed in accordance with plans approved
by the Public Works Department. The manhole(s) shall be installed by the owner
at his or her expense and shall be maintained by him or her to be safe and
accessible at all times.
(Ord. 04-21, passed - -)
§ 52.28 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Agents of the village shall be allowed entry into the properties,
including houses, which are connected to the village's sanitary sewer for the
purposes of inspecting and testing the plumbing and associated connections. The
Village of Bluffton shall make advance notice of said inspection and shall
coordinate with property or facility owners. Notice of inspection and the
conduction of inspections shall conform with the sanitary compliance inspection
program.
   (B)   No excavation of any public street or right-of-way, or connection,
tapping, or opening of public sewer shall occur without 48 hours written notice
to the Village Administrator, or designee. The work may not proceed until
written approval of the Village Administrator, or designee, is obtained. All
excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded with
barricades and lights to protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks,
parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be
restored in a manner satisfactory to the village. All backfilling of the
excavation made for such connection shall comply with approved sewer
construction standards.
(Ord. 04-21, passed - -)
§ 52.29 PRIVATELY OWNED SANITARY LIFT PUMP REQUIREMENTS.
   Property owners with new or existing sanitary lift or grinder pumps are
responsible for operations and maintenance of the pump(s) and appurtenances.
(Ord. 04-21, passed - -)
§ 52.30 ILLICIT CONNECTIONS TO THE SEWER.
   (A)   No property owner, occupant, user, or person shall discharge or cause
to be discharged any storm water, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff,
subsurface drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water, or unpolluted industrial
process waters to any sanitary sewer. Illicit connections include, but are not
limited to sump pumps, foundation drains, French drains, yard drains, gutter
downspouts, cistern overflow pipes, and any other storm water drainage
receptacle(s).
   (B)   Storm water, unpolluted industrial cooling waters, and process waters
may be discharged, upon approval of the Village Administrator and other
regulatory agencies, to public storm water facilities or a natural outlet.
   (C)   Removal of illicit connections required.
      (1)   Whenever the Village Administrator finds that any provision of
division (A) or (B) hereof is being violated, a written order shall be issued
to the person responsible for the removal, elimination, or correction of such
condition(s), to remove such connectors or drains from such sanitary sewer
within 30 days after service of such order.
      (2)   The service of such order, as mentioned herein, shall be made in
person by a representative of the village where possible. Where not possible,
delivery of such order shall be made by certified mail.
   (D)   Non-compliance fee for illicit connection.
      (1)   Every person owning property shall allow an employee or agent of
the village, a designated representative of the village, or a licensed plumber,
acting on the village's behalf with the consent of the owner, to inspect the
building to determine if sump pumps or other prohibited discharges are
connected to the sanitary sewerage system.
      (2)   Any property found to have an illicit connection, either direct or
indirect, to the sanitary sewerage system shall receive a written notice from
the village that necessary repairs be completed and furnish proof of the
repairs to the village within 30 days of notification of said violation.
      (3)   (a)   Upon confirmation of the elimination of the illicit
connection, the illicit connection will be considered resolved and no further
action will be taken.
         (b)   Nothing in this section prohibits the Village of Bluffton from
granting an extension to property or facility owners in order to comply with
this chapter.
      (4)   If the illicit connection is not corrected, or a property owner
refuses to schedule a sanitary compliance inspection or refuses to permit
access to conduct said inspection within 90 days of the first written notice,
the facility or property owner will be subject to a non-compliance fee. The fee
covers the cost for treating the extraneous flow or potential extraneous flow
contributed to the sewerage system. The fee will be in addition to all other
sanitary sewer user charges and will be added to the property owner's utility
bill each month until the property is compliant with this chapter.
      (5)   To remove the non-compliance fee, the owner of the subject property
shall request, in writing, an inspection by the village. An inspection will be
scheduled with the facility or property owner within ten days of the receipt of
the inspection request. If the inspection reveals no illicit connections, then
the non-compliance fee will be removed during the next utility billing cycle.
      (6)   Fees are listed in the utility fee schedule which may be revised
from time to time by the Village Council.
(Ord. 04-21, passed - -)
§ 52.31 FAT, OIL, GREASE AND SAND (FOGS) INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   (1)   Fat, oil, grease and sand interceptors shall be required for
users of the POTW, whereas the user is included in the categories below.
         (a)   All food service establishments, including but not limited to
bakeries, butcher shops, cafes, clubhouses, commercial kitchens, delicatessens,
ice cream parlors, restaurants, schools, hospitals, meat-packing plants, fat-
rendering plants, soap factories, or any similar facility, especially where
meat, poultry, seafood, dairy products, or fried foods are prepared or served;
         (b)   All shopping centers that have food service or processing
facilities;
         (c)   All commercial auto washing facilities, motor vehicle repair
shops;
         (d)   All assisted-living facilities, nursing homes, childcare
facilities; and
         (e)   All other facilities discharging or having the potential to
discharge FOGS into the POTW.
            1.   Any other user, facility, business, or operation determined by
the Village Administrator or designee, by the County Board of Health, or County
Sanitary Engineer, where the user discharges, or has the potential to discharge
FOGS in amounts or concentrations, that such discharges will negatively impact
the operation of the POTW.
            2.   Exemption. The Village Administrator or designee, may, under
specific circumstances, exempt a user from these requirements, provided that
the user can submit proof (via engineering documents and/or chemical analysis)
that the users discharges shall not negatively impact the POTW. This does not
exempt the user from any future requirements imposed by the village in regard
to changes in levels of FOGS in the user's discharges. Any user desiring an
interceptor exemption shall submit a permit request and fee.
      (2)   It is not the opinion of the village that such interceptors shall
be required for private living quarters or dwelling units.
   (B)   (1)   All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
village, the County Board of Health, and/or the County Sanitary Engineer.
Fiberglass or plastic interceptors are recommended for increased service life.
All interceptors shall have a capacity of 15% of the daily flow, or a minimum
of 1,000 gallons. All interceptors shall be installed as per engineered
drawings, or established construction standards, and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for inspection and kept clean at all times.
Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious materials
capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature. They shall
be of substantial construction, water-tight, and equipped with easily removable
covers which when bolted in place shall be gas-tight and water-tight and be
capable of the maximum flow rate of the pipe installed therein.
      (2)   Under-sink grease interceptors may be permitted based on the type
of business, the average daily wastewater flow, and the number and type of
wastewater fixtures. Under-sink grease interceptors, when approved, shall
comply will all requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   Where installed, all grease, oil, and sand interceptors or traps
shall be maintained by the owner and maintenance of the interceptors and traps
shall be maintained and provided to the village within ten days following the
date of service, and records shall be made available upon request for a period
of three years following the date of service. Any user of a permitted grease
interceptor who has not submitted cleaning, service, and/or inspection
documentation to the Village Administrator or designee by December 31 of the
current year, will be charged a $200 non-compliance fee. This fee shall be paid
within 90 days of receipt of the charge, or the charge shall be levied against
the user's property tax.
      (2)   Interceptors shall be cleaned at least once each calendar quarter,
or more frequently as needed. Any facility desiring a schedule less frequent
than quarterly shall submit a request for cleaning variance to the village and
be able to demonstrate that the cleaning intervals can be increased without
impairment of the POTW. This permit shall be valid for a period of three years
from the date of approval. Every three years the user must submit a new permit
application before a permit renewal will be granted.
   (D)   Employees or agents of the Village of Bluffton may inspect the
interceptors, separators, or traps located on the property at any time. The
village shall provide advance notice to the property or facility owner of the
inspection, except in emergency situations.
   (E)   If the user is not maintaining the equipment, the village may clean
the part of the sewerage system damaged by the owner and the user will be
liable for any expense, including any cleaning, loss or damage to the sewerage
system, in addition to the amount of any fines imposed under state or federal
law.
   (F)   Permits and fees.
      (1)   Interceptor installation/operation (I/O) three-year no charge;
      (2)   Interceptor exemption, see fee schedule;
      (3)   Cleaning frequency variance permit, one year, cost: see fee
schedule;
      (4)   Expired I/O permits shall be charged $100 late fee upon renewal;
and
      (5)   (a)   Legacy permits may be issued to any adequately operating
grease interceptor that was installed and operating prior to the adoption of
this chapter. Legacy permits shall be granted at no cost to the owner for a
period of one year. Prior to granting a renewal, the village shall ensure that
the grease interceptor is working adequately and as designed or shall order the
repair and/or replacement of the interceptor, so said interceptor meets all
requirements of this chapter. After the one-year legacy permit period expires,
and only after an inspection proves that the interceptor is working as
designed, the interceptor shall qualify for the standard three-year interceptor
operation permit.
         (b)   Fees are listed in the utility fee schedule, and fees may be
revised at any time by the Village Council.
(Ord. 04-21, passed - -)
WASTEWATER ADMISSIBILITY
§ 52.45 UNLAWFUL ACTIVITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or user:
   (A)   To deposit or permit to be deposited in an unsanitary manner upon
public or private property within the village, or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the village, any human excrement, garbage or other
objectionable waste;
   (B)   To deposit in any unsanitary manner on public or private property
within the jurisdiction of the village any wastewater or other polluted waters,
except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with provisions
of this chapter and the NPDES permit;
   (C)   To discharge into any sewer or drain connected to the sewerage system,
any oils, greases, fats, acids, chemicals, soot, iron or mineral wastes, ashes
or cinders, garbage, dead animals, rags, wipes (including those labeled as
"flushable"), hair, or any wastes which may cause clogging, or which may be
injurious to the sewers, sewage pumping equipment, treatment or disposal works,
or interferes with the proper treatment of domestic sewage, or the operation,
and maintenance of the sewage disposal works;
   (D)   To connect any floor drain, pit drain, or any other drain subject to
receiving oil, grease, or gasoline, to the sewerage system or drain connected
thereto, unless equipped with a suitable approved interceptor or trap that will
keep oils and greases from entering the sewerage system. Whoever violates
divisions (A) through (D) is guilty of disorderly conduct, a minor misdemeanor;
   (E)   To discharge into the sewerage system or into any drain connected
thereto, any hot, suffocating, corrosive, inflammable, or explosive liquids,
gases, acids, vaporous substances, oils or anything that may be detrimental to
the successful operation of the POTW. Whoever violates this section is guilty
of criminal damaging or endangering, a misdemeanor of the second degree;
   (F)   To connect any rain leader, downspout, area drain, cistern overflow,
or any other storm water drain to the sanitary sewer system or to any drain
connected thereto. Whoever violates this section is guilty of disorderly
conduct, a minor misdemeanor;
   (G)   To discharge water used only for cooling or refrigeration purposes
into the sanitary sewer system which is connected to the POTW in quantities so
as to interfere with the successful operation of the POTW. Whoever violates
this section is guilty of disorderly conduct, a minor misdemeanor;
   (H)   To discharge or cause to be discharged to any natural outlet any
wastewater or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment has been
provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter and the NPDES permit.
Whoever violates this section is guilty of disorderly conduct, a minor
misdemeanor; or
   (I)   To maliciously, willfully and negligently break, damage, destroy,
uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which
is a part of the sewage works. Whoever violates this section is guilty of
disrupting public services, a felony of the fourth degree.
(Ord. 04-21, passed - -)
§ 52.46 DISCHARGE OF STORM WATER AND OTHER UNPOLLUTED DRAINAGE.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any sanitary
sewer, either directly or indirectly, storm water, surface water, ground water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water or unpolluted
industrial water without the specific permission of the village.
   (B)   Unpolluted water from air conditioners, cooling, condensing systems or
swimming pools shall be discharged to an approved storm sewer, where available.
Where a storm sewer is not available, discharge may be to a natural outlet
approved by the village, the State of Ohio, and other regulatory agencies.
(Ord. 04-21, passed - -)
§ 52.47 PRIVY, PRIVY VAULTS, CESSPOOLS OR SEPTIC TANKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or lessee of any lot or parcel of
land within the village to place, deposit, or permit to be deposited any human
excrement, garbage, or any other organic waste upon the premises in a way or
place that the same is exposed to flies, rodents, small domestic animals or
will endanger a water supply.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to construct and maintain any privy, privy
vaults, cesspool or septic tank intended for, or subject to, receiving human
excrement wherever a public sanitary sewer is located in any street, alley,
right-of-way, or easement adjacent to, or within 200 feet of the foundation
wall of the structure from which the sewage or other waste originates (R.C. §§
6117.51.C and D). Where a new public sanitary sewer connection is made, the
existing privy, privy vault, cesspool or septic tank intended for or subject to
receiving human excrement, shall be cleaned, removed and filled in accordance
with the County Board of Health regulations.
   (C)   (1)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available, the
building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater disposal system.
      (2)   Any private wastewater disposal system, as provided in this
section, shall conform to all applicable village, county, state and federal
laws and codes.
      (3)   The owner of a private wastewater disposal facility shall operate
and maintain the facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to
the village.
      (4)   Whenever, in the opinion of the Village Administrator, any privy,
vault, cesspool or septic tank shall become offensive to the safety, health,
comfort, convenience or repose of the public he or she shall give notice to the
owner personally or by mailing the notice by registered mail to such owner at
his or her last known address, requiring the owner or occupant of the premises
to clean, remove or alter the privy, vault, cesspool or septic tank in a
satisfactory manner within five days from the date of notice. Should the owner
or occupant of the premises fail to clean, remove or alter such privy, vault,
cesspool or septic tank, or fail to connect to the sewer system as specified in
this chapter, within the time specified, the Village Administrator shall cause
the work to be done and the expense for such work shall become an obligation of
the owner of the property to the village. Such obligation shall be collected in
a manner consistent with village policy, or in a suit at law, or the charges
shall be certified to the County Auditor and be collected as other taxes are
collected. No person shall remove or dispose of the contents of any privy,
vault, cesspool or septic tank except in a manner approved by the Village
Administrator and the State/County Boards of Health.
      (5)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property
served by a private wastewater disposal system, as provided in division (B)
hereof, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer within one year
in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar
private wastewater disposal facilities shall be abandoned in accordance with
state or local laws.
   (D)   Abandonment of septic tanks or vaults. Upon connection to a public or
private sanitary sewer, the existing septic tank or vault shall be pumped out
and the waste disposed of by a licensed hauler. When the tank or vault has been
verified as empty, the top and bottom of the tank or vault shall be fractured
or broken so that the tank shall not hold water. The tank or vault shall then
be filled with #57 stone or a similar gravel, and the top covered with earth.
(Ord. 04-21, passed - -)
§ 52.48 GENERAL PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed, directly or indirectly,
any pollutant or wastewater which will interfere with the operation or
performance of the sewage works. These general prohibitions apply to all such
users of the sewage works whether or not the user is subject to national,
state, or local pretreatment standards or requirements. A person or user may
not contribute the following substances to any sewage works:
   (A)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are or may be sufficient, either alone or by interaction with other
substances, to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
sewage works or to the operation of the POTW. At no time shall two successive
readings on an explosion hazard meter, at the point of discharge into the
system (or at any point in the system), be more than 10% of the lower explosive
limit (LEL) of the meter. Prohibited materials include, but are not limited to,
gasoline, diesel fuel, kerosene, naphtha, benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers,
alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates, bromates,
carbides, hydrides and sulfides and any other substance which the village, the
state or EPA has notified the user is a fire hazard or a hazard to the system.
   (B)   Solid or viscous substances which may cause obstruction to the flow in
the sewage works or other interference with the operation of the POTW such as,
but not limited to: grease, garbage with particles greater than one-half inch
in any dimension, animal guts or tissues, paunch manure, bones, hair, hides or
fleshings, entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime,
stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags,
wipes (including those labeled as "flushable"), spent grains, spent hops, waste
paper, wood, plastics, gas, tar, asphalt residues, residues from refining or
processing of fuel or lubrication oil, mud, glass grinding or polishing wastes,
or butchers offal.
   (C)   Any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD and the
like) released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration
which will cause interference with the POTW.
   (D)   Any wastewater having a pH less than six, unless the POTW is
specifically designed to accommodate such wastewater, or wastewater having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and/or personnel of the POTW.
   (E)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to:
      (1)   Injure or interfere with any wastewater treatment process.
      (2)   Constitute a hazard to humans or animals.
      (3)   Create a toxic effect on the receiving waters of the POTW or to
exceed the limitation set forth in a categorical pretreatment standard.
   (F)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are sufficient to create a public
nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for maintenance and repair.
   (G)   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its limits and
restrictions set forth in the village's NPDES permit.
   (H)   Any substance with objectionable color not removed in the treatment
process, such as but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions.
   (I)   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW resulting in interference; but in no case, wastewater with
a temperature at the introduction into the POTW which exceeds 40°C (104°F) or
any liquid or vapor discharged into the sewage works having a temperature
higher than 60°C (140°F).
   (J)   Any unpolluted water, including, but not limited to non-contact
cooling water.
   (K)   Any waters or wastes containing acid, metallic pickling wastes, or
concentrated plating solutions.
   (L)   Any toxic radioactive isotopes of such half-life or concentration as
exceeds limits established by federal regulations. The radioactive isotopes
Iodine-131 and Phosphorus-32 used in hospitals are not prohibited, if they are
properly diluted before being discharged into the sanitary sewer.
   (M)   Any waters or wastes containing any toxic substances in quantities
that are sufficient to interfere with the biochemical processes of the POTW
that will pass through the POTW into the receiving stream in amounts exceeding
the standards set by federal, interstate, state or other competent authority
having jurisdiction or contaminate sewage sludge, that contain iron or any
other toxic ions, compounds, or substances in concentrations or amounts
exceeding the limits established from time to time by the village that exert an
excessive chlorine requirement on the POTW.
   (N)   Any unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
slugs that for a duration of five minutes or more have a concentration or flow
of more than five times the average concentration of the BOD, the suspended
solids or flow of the customer's sewage discharged during a 24-hour period of
normal operation and are released in a single extraordinary discharge event
which causes interference to the POTW.
   (O)   Any substance which may cause the POTW's effluent or any other product
of the POTW such as residues, sludges, or scums to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process. In no case
shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance
with sludge use or disposal criteria, guidelines or regulations developed under
Section 405 of the Act, any criteria or guidelines of or pursuant to the Solid
Waste Disposal Act, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Air Act,
the Toxic Substances Control Act, or state criteria applicable to the sludge
management method being used.
   (P)   Any wastewater which causes a hazard to human life or creates a public
nuisance.
(Ord. 04-21, passed - -)
§ 52.49 SPECIFIC PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   Whether or not the user is subject to national, state, or local pretreatment
standards or requirements, the village reserves the right to establish local
discharge limits for any pollutant or wastewater.
(Ord. 04-21, passed - -)
§ 52.50 DILUTION.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in any way attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the federal,
state or local standards. The village may impose mass limitations on users who
are using dilution to meet the pretreatment standards or requirements of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 04-21, passed - -)
§ 52.51 RIGHT TO REVISION.
   The village reserves the right to establish more stringent standards or
requirements on discharges to the sewage works.
(Ord. 04-21, passed - -)
§ 52.52 TEMPORARY DISCHARGE PERMIT.
   (A)   Where approved by the Village Administrator and the operator of the
wastewater treatment works, a temporary discharge permit may be issued to
permit the discharge of pre-treated wastewaters from the following types of
activities.
      (1)   Groundwater remediation;
      (2)   Utility/manhole pumping;
      (3)   Accumulated surface water;
      (4)   Tank removal/installation;
      (5)   Pipe testing;
      (6)   Hydrogeologic testing;
      (7)   Trenchless excavation; or
      (8)   Non-contact/uncontaminated cooling water.
   (B)   Prior to accepting such discharges, the village requires a chemical
analysis to be performed on the wastewater to be discharged, and a copy of said
testing shall be submitted with the temporary discharge permit. The permits
shall be valid for periods of 30, 60 or 90 days. If additional time is needed,
the party requesting an extension shall request another permit and shall be
required to justify the need for the extension. Requesting party shall provide
a telephone number for the on-site contact for the business/company processing
the wastewater and a site diagram. Requesting party shall be responsible for
all treatment costs and permit fees. Costs for treatment of discharges shall be
calculated according to the current charges contained in the utility fee
schedule. A non-refundable permit fee shall be submitted with the completed
permit application. See utility fee schedule.
      (1)   Any person(s) found to be discharging, or permitting to be
discharged, any of the aforementioned wastewaters to the sanitary or storm
sewerage systems without a permit shall be charged a minimum of $1,000 per day,
for each day of violation and shall be responsible for all costs incurred by
the village for the remediation of any damages.
      (2)   Any person or persons permitting the discharge of wastewaters after
the expiration of a temporary discharge permit shall be fined no less than $500
and shall not be permitted to resume discharges until issuance of a new
temporary discharge permit.
(Ord. 04-21, passed - -)
§ 52.53 SEPTAGE RECEIVING.
   The Village of Bluffton Wastewater Treatment Plant will accept domestic
septage from authorized septic haulers, and only in accordance with the
regulations set forth in this chapter.
   (A)   Any licensed septic hauler may apply for permission to dispose of
domestic septage at the Bluffton Wastewater Treatment Plant, provided the
following requirements are met.
      (1)   Each hauler desiring to dispose of domestic septage shall be
licensed, insured, and shall apply for a septage disposal permit.
      (2)   Once permitted, the hauler shall maintain records of the locations
where septage is collected from, and the quantities of septage collected, and
shall retain said records for the duration of the permit period. Haulers shall
provide all records pertaining to septage disposed at the Bluffton Wastewater
Treatment Plant, upon request.
      (3)   Haulers shall pay a disposal fee, per gallon, as provided in the
utility fee schedule, invoiced each month.
   (B)   Septage disposal requirements.
      (1)   No hauler shall dispose of any wastewater of sufficient strength or
chemical, or bio-chemical composition that results in an upset of treatment
processes. Any hauler violating this rule shall be prohibited from disposing
septage at the village for no less than one year and shall compensate the
village for any costs related to returning the wastewater treatment plant to
operating condition.
      (2)   No hauler shall dispose of septage containing significant amounts
of grit, sand, pebbles, or any other debris that endanger or damage wastewater
treatment equipment. Any hauler violating this rule shall be prohibited from
disposing septage at the village for no less than one year and shall compensate
the village for any costs related to returning the wastewater treatment plant
to operating condition.
      (3)   Each hauler shall complete a disposal ticket each time any amount
of septage or wastewater is disposed of at the Bluffton Wastewater Treatment
Plant. Each disposal ticket shall contain information identifying the dates,
locations and quantities of septage that were collected for disposal. Failure
to complete a disposal ticket shall result in a 30-day suspension of disposal
privileges.
      (4)   (a)   Each hauler shall, upon request from the wastewater treatment
plant operator or designee, provide a sample of septage for mercury and heavy
metals analysis. A minimum of one sample per month from no less than 75% of the
total permitted haulers shall be collected. Haulers will be provided the
results of the analysis by the village, and any concerns about mercury and/or
heavy metal contamination will be addressed with the hauler.
         (b)   Any hauler found to be repeatedly, knowingly, or negligently
disposing of septage with a high mercury and/or heavy metal concentration will
be reported to the Ohio EPA, and will be permanently disqualified from having
disposal privileges. The village may also file criminal and/or civil charges
and seek compensation for costs and damages.
   (D)   A domestic septage disposal permit shall be valid for a period of
three years from the date of approval. Renewal applications shall be submitted
no less than 30 days prior to the expiration of the permit.
   (E)   In order to regulate and minimize the amount of domestic septage
received at the Bluffton Wastewater Treatment Plant, domestic septage shall
only be accepted from the following townships:
      (1)   Richland Township, Allen County;
      (2)   Orange Township, Hancock County;
      (3)   Union Township, Hancock County;
      (4)   Liberty Township, Hardin County;
      (5)   Jackson Township, Allen County;
      (6)   Bath Township, Allen County;
      (7)   Monroe Township, Allen County;
      (8)   Pleasant Township, Putnam County; and
      (9)   Riley Township, Putnam County.
   (F)   Permits, fees and penalties.
      (1)   Septage disposal permit (SDP), three-year period, cost: see fee
schedule.
      (2)   SDP renewal fee: see fee schedule.
      (3)   Expired SDP permit renewal fee: see fee schedule.
      (4)   Penalties for violations:
         (a)   Division (A)(1) through (A)(3): Permanent disqualification of
permit/privileges, criminal and/or civil charges or penalties.
         (b)   Division (B)(1) and (B)(2): One-year suspension of disposal
permit, plus damages.
         (c)   Division (B)(3) and (B)(4)(a): Thirty day suspension of disposal
privileges.
         (d)   Division (B)(4)(a): Permanent disqualification of permit/
privileges, criminal and/or civil charges or penalties.
         (e)   Repeated violations of divisions (B)(1) through (B)(4): Two-year
suspension, $500 fine.
   (G)   Non-domestic septage exception.
      (1)   Any currently permitted septage hauler may, at the discretion of
the wastewater treatment plant operator, dispose of non-domestic septage or
sanitary wastewater at the Bluffton Wastewater Treatment Plant. The wastewater
treatment plant operator reserves the right refuse any disposal request which
he or she believes will cause treatment process upset or cause a violation of
the Village of Bluffton's NPDES permit. At no time will septage be accepted
that contains high levels of phosphorus, heavy metals, or any other contaminant
at levels higher than permitted by the USEPA, Ohio EPA and/or the Village of
Bluffton's NPDES permit.
      (2)   Prior to disposing of non-domestic septage and/or wastewaters, a
temporary discharge permit shall be issued to the hauler requesting disposal,
even if the hauler is currently permitted to dispose of septage at the Bluffton
Wastewater Treatment Plant.
(Ord. 04-21, passed - -)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.65 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNCIL. The Village of Bluffton Council or any duly authorized officials
acting on its behalf.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater discharges from industrial, trade or
business processes as distinct from employee wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
   SEWAGE. This term shall have the same meaning as defined in the sewer use
chapter.
   SEWER USE CHAPTER. A separate and companion enactment to this subchapter,
which regulates the connection to and use of public and private sewers.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Bluffton acting by and through the Council.
(Ord. 04-21, passed - -)
§ 52.66 COLLECTION.
   (A)   For the use of and the service rendered by the sewage works, rates and
charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of
real estate, or building that is connected to the village's sanitary sewer
system or otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or
other liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewerage system
of the village.
   (B)   The rates and charges shall be payable as hereinafter provided and
shall be in an amount determinable as follows:
      (1)   Metered water users. The sewage rates and charges shall be based on
the quantity of water used on or in the property or premises subject to the
rates and charges defined in the utility fee schedule, as the same is measured
by the water meter there in use, subject to a minimum charge, except as herein
otherwise provided. For the purpose of billing and collecting the charges for
sewage service, the water meters shall be read monthly (or period equaling a
month).
      (2)   Outside village limits. For users of the sewage works that are
outside of the village limits, the rate shall be as established in the utility
fee schedule.
      (3)   Inside village limits. For users of the sewage works that are
inside the village limits but are not connected to the village public water
system, the rate shall be as established in the utility fee schedule.
(Ord. 04-21, passed - -)
§ 52.67 CONNECTION CHARGE.
   (A)   The owner of any lot, parcel of real estate or building connecting to
the sewage works shall, prior to being permitted to make a connection, pay a
connection charge as defined in the utility fee schedule.
   (B)   The Village Council now finds such a tap-in charge to be a reasonable
and equitable pro rata cost of construction of a local or lateral sewer
adequate to serve the property so connecting and the cost of providing a
connection to the sewer system.
(Ord. 04-21, passed - -)
§ 52.68 BILLINGS.
   The rates and charges shall be prepared, billed and collected by the village
in the manner provided by law and chapter and in accordance with the utility
fee schedule.
(Ord. 04-21, passed - -)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.80 AUTHORIZATION OF VILLAGE TO ENFORCE.
   (A)   The village shall make and enforce the by-laws and regulations as may
be deemed necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management of the
village's sewerage system, pumping stations and sewage conveyance system, for
the construction and use of house sewers and connections to the sewerage
system, and for the regulation, collection, rebating and refunding of the rates
and charges.
   (B)   The village is hereby authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into
the village's sewage system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the
operation of the sewage treatment works of the village.
(Ord. 04-21, passed - -)
§ 52.81 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person or user found that has violated, or continues to violate,
any provision of this chapter, shall be served by the village with a written
notice of violation stating the nature of the violation, a timeframe to cease
the violation, and 90 days, or as otherwise authorized by the Village
Administrator, to satisfactorily correct the violation. The offender shall,
within the period stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   The user will provide to the village within ten days of receiving the
written notice, an explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory
correction and prevention thereof, to include specific required actions.
Submission of this plan in no way relieves the user of liability for any
violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of violation.
Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the village to take any
action, including emergency actions or any other enforcement action, without
first issuing a notice of violation.
(Ord. 04-21, passed - -)
§ 52.82 ADMINISTRATIVE FINES.
   (A)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in the notice of violation shall be fined in the amount as defined
in the utility fee schedule, notice of violation fine. Each day in which any
such violation shall continue, shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (B)   Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request for
the village to reconsider the fine along with full payment of the fine amount
within 30 days of being notified of the fine. Where a request has merit, the
village may convene a hearing on the matter. In the event the user's appeal is
successful, the payment, together with any interest accruing thereto, shall be
returned to the user. The costs of preparing administrative enforcement
actions, such as notices and orders, may be added to the fine.
   (C)   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 04-21, passed - -)
§ 52.83 EMERGENCY SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The village may immediately suspend a user's discharge, after a verbal
notice to the user of the violation, whenever such suspension is necessary to
stop an actual or threatened discharge which reasonably appears to present or
cause an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of
persons or the environment.
   (B)   The village may immediately suspend a user's discharge, after notice
and opportunity to respond, that threatens to interfere with the operation of
the sewerage system, or which presents, or may present, an endangerment to the
environment.
   (C)   The village may allow the user to recommence its discharge when the
user has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the village that the period of
endangerment has passed.
(Ord. 04-21, passed - -)
§ 52.84 TERMINATION OF DISCHARGE.
   (A)   The village may revoke a user's privilege to discharge non-domestic
wastewater into the sewerage system.
   (B)   Termination of service is used when the discharge from a user presents
imminent endangerment to the health or welfare of persons, or the environment;
or threatens to damage the sewerage system or interfere with the village's
operations; or as an escalating enforcement action to a significant violation
when a non-compliant user fails to respond adequately to previous enforcement
actions.
   (C)   Termination of service may be accomplished by physical severance of
the user's connection to the collection system, issuance of a cease-and-desist
order which compels the user to immediately terminate its discharge, revocation
of the user's discharge permit, or a court ruling.
(Ord. 04-21, passed - -)
§ 52.85 COST RECOVERY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the village for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned the
village or downstream users by reason of such violation.
   (B)   The user shall be responsible for paying the following (but not
limited to) costs incurred by the village for the user's failure to comply:
cost of mileage and labor incurred in detecting and correcting the violation;
laboratory analysis costs associated with detecting and correcting the
violation; additional treatment costs caused by the violation or associated
with detecting and correcting the violation; costs of any additional equipment
acquired or expended by the village for detecting or correcting the violation;
repair and/or replacement of any part of the sewerage system damaged by the
violation; any liability, damages, fines, or penalties incurred by the village
because of the violation; all expenses of outside professionals to include, but
not limited to, engineers, scientists, and/or legal counsel; and other costs
associated with the detection and correction of the violations.
(Ord. 04-21, passed - -)
§ 52.86 REMEDIES NONEXCLUSIVE.
   (A)   The remedies provided for in this chapter are not exclusive. The
village may take any, all, or any combination of these actions against a
noncompliant user.
   (B)   Enforcement of industrial user violations will generally be in
accordance with this chapter. However, the village may take other action
against any user when the circumstances warrant. Further, the village is
empowered to take more than one enforcement action against any noncompliant
user.
(Ord. 04-21, passed - -)
§ 52.87 UNPAID CHARGES.
   (A)   If any of the charges herein established are unpaid, then after due
and proper notice to the delinquent user has been made and the same remains
unpaid for a period of 90 days, then the same shall become assessed via the
property tax of the user.
   (B)   A list of the owners who fail to comply with the requirements herein
before set out, together with a description of their real estate on which the
lien is created and the costs and charges, shall be furnished to the Fiscal
Officer.
   (C)   It shall be his or her duty to certify the amount due from each owner
to the County Auditor and the amount of charges shall be placed on the tax
duplicate by the County Auditor and collected as taxes are collected.
   (D)   In addition to this method of collection, the village shall have the
further right to place a statement thereof in the hands of the Village
Solicitor and it shall be the duty of the Village Solicitor to institute a
civil action in the name of the village to recover the amount thereof.
(Ord. 04-21, passed - -)
§ 52.88 RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   Any user or any interested party shall have the right to request in writing
an interpretation or ruling by the village on any matter covered by this
chapter and shall be entitled to a prompt written reply. In the event that such
inquiry is by a user and deals with matters of performance or compliance with
this chapter or deals with a wastewater discharge permit issued pursuant hereto
for which enforcement activity relating to an alleged violation which is the
subject, receipt of a user's request shall stay all enforcement proceedings
pending receipt of the aforesaid written reply. Appeal of any final judicial
order entered pursuant to this chapter may be taken in accordance with local
and state law.
(Ord. 04-21, passed - -)
CHAPTER 53: STORM SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Operation of sewer utility
   
53.03   Right of entry
   
53.04   Responsibility for obstructing or damaging sewers
   
53.05   Downspouts, underdrains and storm water discharges
   
53.06   Sump pumps and groundwater handling facilities
   
53.07   Nuisance; order to remove
   
53.08   Special agreements; exemptions
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicate or require a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, (Pub. L. 92-500) also known as
the Clean Water Act of 1977, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq. (Pub. L. 95-
217); as well as any guidelines, limitations and standards promulgated by the
Environmental Protection Agency pursuant to the Act.
   ASCE. American Society of Civil Engineers.
   ASSISTANT VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR. Operations manager of wastewater treatment
plant and sewer systems. Hired by, and reports to, Village Administrator.
   BUILDING (or HOUSE) DRAIN. The lowest horizontal piping of a building
drainage system which receives the discharge from waste and other drainage
pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the foundation wall of the building.
   BUILDING DRAIN, SANITARY. A building drain which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
   BUILDING DRAIN, STORM. A building drain which conveys storm water or other
clean water drainage, but no wastewater.
   BUILDING (or HOUSE) LATERAL SEWER. The extension from the building drain to
the public sewer system or other place of disposal.
   BUILDING SEWER, SANITARY. A building lateral sewer which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
   BUILDING SEWER, STORM. A building lateral sewer which conveys stormwater or
other clear water drainage, but no sanitary or industrial sewage.
   CFR. Code of Federal Regulations.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE. Composite samples shall be comprised of a series of grab
samples collected over a 24-hour period and proportionate in volume to the
sewage flow rate at the time of sampling. Such samples shall be collected at
such times and locations, and in such a fashion, as to be representative of the
facility's overall performance.
   DAILY DISCHARGE. Discharge of a pollutant measured during a calendar day or
any 24-hour period that reasonably represents the calendar for purposes of
sampling.
   DOMESTIC SEPTAGE. Liquid and/or semi-solid material removed from a septic
tank, septic system, cesspool, portable toilet, or other similar treatment or
storage works, that is generated only by non- commercial or non-industrial
users.
   DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Wastewater from typical residential users and having
pollutant characteristics of not greater than 250 mg/l BOD, 250 mg/l total
suspended solids, 25 mg/l nitrogen compounds and eight mg/l phosphorus
compounds.
   DOWNSPOUT. A pipe designed to direct stormwater down and away from a
building or structure.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EFFLUENT. Water, together with any wastes that may be present, flowing out
of a drain, sewer, receptacle, or outlet.
   EFFULENT PUMP. An appliance installed for the purpose of lifting collected
domestic or commercial wastewater for discharge at a higher elevation to a
public sanitary sewer.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY, OR EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, Ohio EPA, or where appropriate the term may also be used as a
designation for the Village Administrator or other duly authorized official of
said agency.
   FATS, OILS, GREASES (FOG). A group of substances, including hydrocarbons,
fatty acids, soaps, fats, waxes, oils or any other material, that is extracted
by a solvent from an acidified sample and that is not volatilized during the
laboratory test procedures. Greases and oils are defined by the method of their
determination in accordance with Standard Methods.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any of a number of organisms common to the intestinal tract
of humans and animals, whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time basis
with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration of
time.
   GREASE AND OIL OF ANIMAL AND VEGETABLE ORIGIN. Substances of biodegradable
nature such as are discharged by meat-packing, vegetable oil and fat
industries, food processors, canneries, and restaurants.
   GREASE AND OIL OF MINERAL ORIGIN. Substances that are less readily
biodegradable than grease and oil of animal or vegetable origin; and are
derived from a petroleum or synthetic sources. Such substances include
machinery lubricating oils, gasoline station wastes, petroleum refinery wastes,
and storage depot wastes.
   GROUNDWATER. Water that flows into a basement, crawl space or other void
adjacent to or under a building or structure that is not direct inflow during
rain events.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks, such as chemical toilets,
campers, trailers, septic tanks, vacuum pump trucks, and the like.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including non-biodegradable solids.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Any solid, liquid, or gaseous substance or form of energy
discharged, permitted to flow, or escape from an industrial, manufacturing,
commercial, or business process, or from the development, recovery, or
processing of any natural resource carried on by a person and shall further
mean any waste from an industrial user.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering a public sewer system, including building
lateral sewer service connections, from the ground through such means as, but
not limited to, defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, or manhole walls.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from surface and/or ground
sources without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW. The water discharged into a public sewer system, including building
lateral sewer service connections from such sources as, but not limited to,
roof drains, cellar, yard and area drains, foundation drains, cistern
overflows, cooling water discharges, drains from springs and swampy areas,
manhole covers, cross-connections from storm sewers, catch basins, storm
waters, surface run-off, street wastewaters or drainage. Inflow does not
include and is distinguished from infiltration.
   INFLUENT. The water, together with any wastes that may be present, flowing
into a drain, sewer, receptacle, or outlet.
   INSPECTION OPENING (CLEAN-OUT). An access point to a sanitary service
lateral installed for the purposes of inspecting and cleaning of the sanitary
service lateral.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the village through the
Village Administrator to inspect and approve the installation of building
sewers and their connection to the public sewer system.
   LOCAL LIMIT. Specific discharge limits developed and enforced by the Village
of Bluffton upon industrial or commercial facilities to implement the general
and specific discharge prohibitions listed in 40 CFR 403.5 (a)(1) and (b).
   MAY. Indicates a discretionary condition.
   MUNICIPALITY. Means the Municipality of Bluffton, Ohio.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM PERMIT (NPDES) PERMIT. A
permit a permit issued to a POTW pursuant to Section 402 of the Act and R.C.
Chapter 6111.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and overflows, into a
watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or ground water.
   NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to health or offensive to the senses
or an obstruction to the free use of property so as to interfere with the
comfort or enjoyment of life or property.
   OAC. Ohio Administrative Code.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Costs, including labor, materials,
supplies, equipment accessories and appurtenances, required to operate the
facilities, keep the facilities in operating condition and maintain the
capacity and performance during the service life of the treatment works for
which such works were designed and constructed.
   ORC. Ohio Revised Code.
   OTHER SERVICE CHARGES. Tap charges, connection charges, area charges and
other identifiable charges other than user charges, debt service charges and
excessive strength surcharges.
   PERMEABLE SURFACE. A surface which by nature or design allows water to pass
though and into the soil underneath.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, partnership, co-
partnership, joint stock company, trust, estate, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency, the State of Ohio, the United
States of America, or other legal entity, or their legal representatives,
agents, or assigns. The masculine gender shall include the feminine and the
singular shall include the plural where indicated by the context.
   pH. The logarithm (to the base ten) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion
activity of a solution expressed in gram atoms per liter of solution.
   PHOSPHORUS. The total phosphorus content of a sample including all the
orthophosphates and condensed phosphates, both soluble and insoluble, and
organic and inorganic species and referred to in Standard Methods as total
phosphorus.
   POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand,
cellar dirt and industrial, municipal, and agricultural waste discharged into
water.
   POLLUTION. An alteration of the quality of the waters of the state by waste
to a degree which unreasonably affects such waters for beneficial uses or
facilities which serve such beneficial uses. The man-made or man-induced
alteration of the chemical, physical, biological, and radiological integrity of
water.
   POP-UP DRAINAGE EMMITER. A device connected to a stormwater or groundwater
handling facility which opens under pressure.
   PREMISES. A parcel of real estate, including any single improvement thereon,
which is determined by the village to be a single user for purposes of
receiving, using, and payment for service. Any additional improvement on the
same parcel of real estate which is determined by the village to be a user
shall be separately connected to the sewer for the purpose of receiving, using,
and payment for service.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A pipe or conduit which is not owned by public authority.
   PROPER OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. Procedures executed in a prudent, cost-
effective, and workmanlike manner which achieve the highest and/or required
effluent quality of industrial discharge attainable in conformance with the
best available technology and practices. Proper operation and maintenance
requirements include avoidance of operational error, adherence to manual
instructions, preventive maintenance, avoidance of careless or improper
operation, neat accurate sampling, the handling of chemicals, lubricants,
solvents, and the like in a safe and organized manner, avoidance of accidental
spillage, keeping operating logs, and any other activities which produce the
desired effluent quality.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A pipe or conduit which is owned and controlled by the village
and will consist of the following increments:
      COLLECTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect wastewaters
from individual point source discharges.
      FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
      INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collector sewers to a treatment facility.
      PUMPING STATION. A station positioned in the public sewer system at which
wastewater is pumped to a higher level.
      STORM SEWER. A pipe or conduit which is designed for the collection and
conveyance of storm or ground water.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works owned in this
instance by the village, except that it does not include pipes, sewers or other
conveyances not connected to a facility providing treatment. The term includes
any devices and systems used in the storage, treatment, recycling and
reclamation of municipal sewage or compatible industrial wastes. Also referred
to as wastewater treatment plant (WWTP).
   RECEIVING STREAM. The watercourse, stream, or body of water receiving the
waters finally discharged from the wastewater treatment plant.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
sewage works equipment to maintain the capacity and performance for which such
works were designed and constructed.
   SANITARY SEWER. A pipe or conduit laid for carrying wastewater and to which
storm, surface, and ground waters and unpolluted industrial wastewater are not
intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is "wastewater".
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, transporting, pumping,
treating, and disposing of sewage and sludge.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or storm water.
   SEWERAGE SYSTEM. The sewerage system shall be classified as sanitary sewers
and storm sewers.
   SHALL. Indicates a mandatory condition.
   SLUDGE. Any solid, semi-solid or liquid waste generated from a municipal,
commercial, or industrial wastewater treatment plant, water supply treatment
plant, or air pollution control facility or any other waste having similar
characteristics and effects as defined in standards issued under Section 402
and 405 of the Federal Act and in the applicable requirements under §§ 3001,
3004 and 4004 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, Pub. L. 94-580, being 42 USC §§
6901 et seq.
   SLUG. Any discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, including but not
limited to an accidental spill or a non-customary batch discharge, which has a
reasonable potential to cause interference or pass through, or in any other way
violate the POTW's regulations, local limits or permit conditions.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water Environment
Federation.
   STORM SEWER. A pipe or conduit laid for receiving storm and surface water,
street wash, or drainage, but excludes domestic sewage or industrial waste.
   STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   SUMP PUMP. An appliance installed for the purpose of lifting collected storm
or ground water for discharge at a higher elevation.
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). Solids which either float on the surface of or
are in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquid and which are removable by
laboratory filtration. Their concentration shall be expressed in milligrams per
liter. Quantitative termination shall be made in accordance with procedures set
forth in Standard Methods.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Those substances referred to in Section 307 (a) of the
Clean Water Act as well as any other known potential substances capable of
producing toxic effects.
   UNDERDRAIN. A system of pipes installed under or adjacent to a roadway for
the purpose of collecting and diverting groundwater away from the base of the
roadway.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to sanitary sewers
and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   UPSET. An exceptional incident in which a user unintentionally and
temporarily is in a state of noncompliance with the standards set forth in this
chapter due to factors beyond the reasonable control of the user, and excluding
noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, lack of preventive
maintenance, or careless or improper operation thereof.
   USER. Any person that discharges, causes, or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the sewerage system.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the wastewater treatment works for
the cost of operation and maintenance of such works pursuant to Section 204(b)
of Pub. L. 92-500, being 33 USC § 1284.
   USER CLASS. The division of wastewater treatment customers by source,
function, waste characteristics, and process or discharge similarities (such
as, residential, commercial, industrial, institutional and governmental).
      COMMERCIAL USER. Any establishment involved in a commercial enterprise,
business or service which, based on a determination by the village, discharges
primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
      GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any federal, state or local governmental user of the
wastewater treatment works.
      INDUSTRIAL USER. Any manufacturing or processing facility that discharges
industrial waste to a publicly owned treatment works.
      INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any establishment involved in a social, charitable,
religious and/or educational function which, based on a determination by the
village, discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from
sanitary conveniences.
      RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment works whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
all dwelling units, and the like.
   UTILITY FEE SCHEDULE. A summary of charges and fees relating to the use of
the village's utilities.
   VILLAGE. Means the Village of Bluffton, Ohio.
   VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR. The administrative head of the village as defined in
O.A.C. §§ 735.271 and 735.273.
   VILLAGE COUNCIL. The elected legislative authority of the village pursuant
to R.C. § 731.09.
   VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the sewage solids transformed to
gases or vapors when heated at 550°C for 15 to 20 minutes.
   WASTE. Includes sanitary sewage and all other waste substances, liquid,
solid, gaseous, or radioactive, associated with human habitation, or of human
or animal origin, or from any producing, processing, manufacturing, or
industrial operation of whatever nature, including such waste placed within
containers of whatever nature prior to and for purposes of disposal.
   WASTEWATER. The water-carried waste from residences, businesses, and
industrial establishments, singular or in any combination, together with such
ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present.
   WASTEWATER CONSTITUENTS AND CHARACTERISTICS. The individual chemical,
physical, bacteriological, and radiological parameters, including volume, flow
rate, and such other parameters that serve to define, classify, or measure the
contents, quality, quantity, and strength of wastewater.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. Any water, surface or underground, within the
boundaries of the State of Ohio, except confined waters in sewers, tanks, and
the like.
   WEF. The Water Environment Federation
(Ord. 06-21, passed - -)
§ 53.02 OPERATION OF SEWER UTILITY.
   (A)   The management, control and operation of the Village of Bluffton's
stormwater collection system and/or treatment works is hereby vested in the
Village Council and Public Works Department.
   (B)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for users of the
stormwater collection system and/or treatment works and enables the village to
comply with all applicable state and federal laws required by the Clean Water
Act of 1977.
   (C)   This chapter shall apply to the village and to persons outside the
village who are, by contract or agreement with the village, users of the
stormwater collection system and/or treatment works. Except as otherwise
provided herein, the village shall administer, implement, and enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   All provisions of this chapter and limits set herein shall comply with
any applicable state and/or federal requirements currently in effect.
(Ord. 06-21, passed - -)
§ 53.03 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   The Public Works Department and other duly authorized employees or
agents of the village bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A), the Public Works Department shall observe all safety rules
applicable to the premises established by the company and the company shall be
held harmless for injury or death to the village employees and the village
shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by village
employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of
the company to maintain safe conditions.
   (C)   The Public Works Department or agents of the Village of Bluffton
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the village holds a duly negotiated easement
for the purpose of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 06-21, passed - -)
§ 53.04 RESPONSIBILITY FOR OBSTRUCTING OR DAMAGING SEWERS.
   If a public sewer becomes obstructed or damaged because any of the
substances identified in this ordinance were improperly discharged, the person
or persons responsible for such discharge shall be billed and shall pay for the
expenses incurred by the Public Works Department in cleaning out, repairing, or
rebuilding the sewer.
(Ord. 06-21, passed - -)
§ 53.05 DOWNSPOUTS, UNDERDRAINS AND STORM WATER DISCHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   Whereas it is preferred that all storm water be discharged onto
a permeable surface, such as lawns, rain gardens, landscaping, or retention
depressions, not every structure or property has the ability to retain and
process the stormwater that is present. Downspouts, catch basins, storm drains
and other stormwater handling facilities may discharge into an approved storm
sewer, natural or engineered ditch, swale, or retention basin, culvert, creek
river, or other natural or manufactured water course.
      (2)   The Village of Bluffton recommends installation of spring-loaded,
hinged, or self-opening yard drain emitters (known as pop-ups) to permit
stormwater to be absorbed into the lawn or other permeable surface within the
boundaries of the same property.
   (B)   Downspouts shall not discharge onto or over a public sidewalk or
pedestrian path or onto an adjacent property.
   (C)   With an approved zoning and building permit, downspouts may discharge
to the gutter of a public street through a curb cut. Permitted curb cut
installations are contained in Appendix 53.405(1).
   (D)   Downspouts should not be installed as to discharge to non-permeable
surfaces that in turn will cause the run-off to cross a public sidewalk. (i.e.
driveways, etc.).
   (E)   (1)   Downspouts and stormwater handling facilities shall not be
connected to the underdrain system of any public street or roadway. Underdrain
systems are designed for removing the water that collects under the pavement
and is not capable of handling high flows of stormwater.
      (2)   All structures that have storm water facilities currently connected
to the underdrain system may remain connected at the property or facility
owners' risk. The Village of Bluffton assumes no liability for damages to
private property resulting from hydraulic overloading of the underdrain system
and subsequent back up of stormwater into structures or onto property. The
Village of Bluffton strongly encourages property or facility owners connected
to the underdrain system to seek alternate methods of discharging stormwater.
      (3)   For property or facility owners that wish to remain connected to
the underdrain system but would like to reduce the risk of stormwater back-ups,
the village recommends installing a relief valve, commonly known as a "pop-up",
between the property served and the underdrain system. This will allow excess
storm water to be relieved onto a permeable surface, in the event the curb or
underdrain becomes hydraulicly overloaded.
(Ord. 06-21, passed - -)
§ 53.06 SUMP PUMPS AND GROUNDWATER HANDLING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Sump pumps, either internal to a structure, or external, shall not be
connected to the sanitary sewer system, unless both of the following criteria
are met:
      (1)   The sump pump is not connected to or receives run-off from any
storm or groundwater handling facilities, including but not limited to;
foundation drains, downspouts, cisterns, patio or porch drains, trench drains,
driveway drains, scuppers, or any other drain designed for the purpose of
collecting and diverting storm or groundwater; and
      (2)   The sump pump basin collects wastewater from domestic uses, such as
a clothes washer, lavatory or floor sink, water softener or purification
system, or any other device or appliance that generates wastewater that would
ordinarily be discharged to a sanitary sewer.
   (B)   (1)   Sump pumps that do not meet the criteria stated in division (A)
shall redirected to discharge onto a public storm sewer, permeable surface,
such as lawns, rain gardens, landscaping, or a retention depression. If none of
these are available or are not capable of carrying the flows that are
discharged, the sump pump shall discharge into an approved natural or
engineered ditch, swale, or retention basin, culvert, creek river, or other
natural or manufactured water course.
      (2)   If a sump pump receives both groundwater and domestic wastewater,
the facility or property owner shall be directed to eliminate one of the
sources or install a separate groundwater or wastewater handling system.
   (C)   Sump pumps shall not discharge onto or over a public sidewalk or
pedestrian path, onto an adjacent property, or directly into a public gutter or
street. Curb cuts for such discharges are prohibited.
   (D)   (1)   Sump pumps shall not discharge to the underdrain system of any
public street or roadway. Underdrain systems are designed for removing the
water that collects under the pavement and is not capable of handling high
flows of storm water.
      (2)   All structures that have sump pumps and/or storm water facilities
currently connected to the underdrain system may remain connected at the
property or facility owners' risk. The Village of Bluffton assumes no liability
for damages to private property resulting from hydraulic overloading of the
underdrain system and subsequent back up of storm water into structures or onto
property. The Village of Bluffton strongly encourages property of facility
owners connected to the underdrain system to seek alternate methods of
discharging storm water.
      (3)   For property or facility owners that wish to remain connected to
the underdrain system but would like to reduce the risk of storm water back-
ups, the village recommends installing a relief valve, commonly known as a
"pop-up", between the property served and the underdrain system. This will
allow excess stormwater to be relieved onto a permeable surface, in the event
the underdrain becomes hydraulicly overloaded.
(Ord. 06-21, passed - -)
§ 53.07 NUISANCE; ORDER TO REMOVE.
   The village may require a property owner to connect private storm water and/
or groundwater handling facilities to the publicly owned storm sewer or install
additional private facilities if, by determination of the Village Administrator
or designee, the discharge is creating a public nuisance or hazard.
(Ord. 06-21, passed - -)
§ 53.08 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits the Village Administrator or
designee from entering into a special agreement with a property owner, whereas
due to project complexity, personal disability, or financial requirements, the
installation, removal or modification of storm and/or groundwater handling
facilities places an undue burden on the property owner. The Village
Administrator may provide an extension for project completion, reduce the
requirements of the project, or provide alternate options in order to best
serve the property and the village.
   (B)   In the event that there is no suitable public storm sewer, or public
storm water handling facility immediately adjacent to a property, the Village
Administrator may grant an exemption to the property owner. This exemption
shall be valid only until the time that a public storm water facility is
available to the property. For an exemption to be granted the village requires
that facility or property owners must attempt to reduce the amount of storm or
groundwater being discharged to the receiving sewer.
(Ord. 06-21, passed - -)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating provisions of this chapter shall become liable to the
village for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned by the village by reason of
such violation. The village will retain any and all civil remedies, including
but not limited to injunction or abatement actions to remedy such violation.
Additionally, non-compliance fees may be assessed to the property until such
violation(s) are corrected to the satisfaction of the village.
(Ord. 06-21, passed - -)
CHAPTER 54: UTILITY RATES AND CHARGES
Section
Charges for Sanitary Sewerage Service and Disposal
   
54.01   Monthly rates
   
54.02   Bills
   
54.03   Shut-off
   
54.04   Property owner liability
   
54.05   Enforcement of rules and regulations
   
54.06   Use of water for swimming pool, skating rink, watering lawns and the
like
Rates and Charges for Water Service
   
54.20   Monthly rates
   
54.21   Bills
   
54.22   Property owner liability
   
54.23   Enforcement of rules and regulations
   
54.24   Charge if paved surface of public street is disturbed
Rates and Charges for the Operations and Cleanup of the Yard Waste Recycling
Center
   
54.40   Monthly rate
   
54.41   Bills
   
54.42   Property owner liability
   
54.43   Enforcement of rules and regulations
 
   
54.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Garbage and Recycling, see
Chapter 50
   Water Regulations, see
Chapter 51
CHARGES FOR SANITARY SEWERAGE SERVICE AND DISPOSAL
§ 54.01 MONTHLY RATES.
   In order to pay the expenses of conducting and managing the sewer utility of
the village, and to make adequate provisions for payment of the interest,
principal and other requirements on indebtedness incurred to finance
improvements to such utility, the monthly rates for sewer service are found in
Exhibit 3 of Chapter 40.
(Ord. 29-82, passed - -; Ord. 19-83, passed 12-20-1983; Ord. 4-87, passed 2-17-
1987; Ord. 18-87, passed 8-4-1987; Ord. 35-96, passed 10-7-1996; Ord. 20-00,
passed 11-7-2000; Ord. 18-02, passed 7-16-2002; Ord. 14-10, passed 6-14-2010;
Ord. 05-11, passed 6-13-2011; Ord. 11-11, passed 7-25-2011; Ord. 20-14, passed
1-19-2015)
§ 54.02 BILLS.
   The due date for any bill for any sanitary sewerage service shall be paid by
the tenth of the month in which such bill is rendered. Should any such bill
remain unpaid after said due date, a penalty of 10% of such billing shall be
added thereto. Should such bill remain unpaid for a period of 30 days after
such due date, the Village Administrator is hereby authorized to cut off such
service. Such service shall be resumed only upon payment of all outstanding
bills, whether the same have been due for 30 days or not, plus an additional
fee of $25. If such bill is not paid within 90 days after such due date, the
Fiscal Officer is authorized and directed to certify the delinquent bill to the
County Auditor for collection as and at the same time that other taxes and
assessments are collected.
(Ord. 19-83, passed 12-20-1983; Ord. 4-87, passed 2-17-1987)
§ 54.03 SHUT-OFF.
   A minimum monthly charge for sanitary sewerage service which has been shut
off at the request of the property owner or lessee for the reason that the
system incurs ongoing expenses even though such service has been shut off shall
be one-half of the monthly minimum charge per month during any month or part of
a month during which the sewer services are disconnected or shut off.
(Ord. 4-87, passed 2-17-1987; Ord. 5-87, passed 4-7-1987)
§ 54.04 PROPERTY OWNER LIABILITY.
   The owner of private property which is served by the sanitary sewerage
system and the sewage disposal plant by pipes connected with said system and
plant to convey sanitary sewerage therefrom shall, as well as the lessee of the
premises, be liable to the village for all sanitary sewerage conveyed from said
premises whether or not said owner of lessee was the actual benefitted party of
the sanitary sewerage service. Where sanitary sewerage service charges are not
paid when due, the village shall have the right to shut off the water supply or
to remove or close sewer connections, or both, until full payment is made.
(Ord. 19-83, passed 12-20-1983; Ord. 6-84, passed 4-3-1984; Ord. 4-87, passed
2-17-1987)
§ 54.05 ENFORCEMENT OF RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Village Administrator shall make and enforce such rules and regulations
as he or she may deem necessary for the enforcement of the provisions hereof,
for the proper determination and collection of the rates and charges herein
provided, and for the efficient and economical management of the sewerage
system; and such rules and regulations when not repugnant to the existing
ordinances of the village or the laws of the state shall have the same force
and effect as an ordinance of Council.
(Ord. 19-83, passed 12-20-1983; Ord. 4-87, passed 2-17-1987)
§ 54.06 USE OF WATER FOR SWIMMING POOL, SKATING RINK, WATERING LAWNS AND THE
LIKE.
   (A)   In the event, an individual, served with village utilities, wishing to
fill a swimming pool or skating rink, watering lawns and trees and/or related
items, via an outside faucet; and seeking an adjustment, the party in question
may acquire from the Village Administrator both a permit and a meter. The
maximum amount of time allowed for possession and use of the meter per is from
May 1 through November 15. A $50 fee will be administered to cover the permit,
application and set-up costs. Upon completion, the metered quantity will then
be returned to the office of the Utility Clerk for billing. The appropriate
amount will be credited to the homeowner’s account.
   (B)   Tampering with any meter shall be deemed unlawful.
   (C)   The Village Administrator will allow a one-time rate adjustment per
year for extenuating circumstances.
(Ord. 35-96, passed 10-7-1996; Ord. 18-02, passed 7-16-2002; Ord. 14-10, passed
6-14-2010; Ord. 05-11, passed 6-13-2011; Ord. 11-11, passed 7-25-2011) Penalty,
see §
54.99
RATES AND CHARGES FOR WATER SERVICE
§ 54.20 MONTHLY RATES.
   In order to pay the expenses of conducting and managing the waterworks
utility of the village, and to make adequate provisions for payment of the
interest, principal and other requirements on indebtedness incurred to finance
improvements to such utility, the monthly rates for water service are found in
Exhibit 3 in Chapter 40.
(Ord. 32-96, passed 10-7-1996; Ord. 10-00, passed 6-26-2000; Ord. 06-08, passed
4-14-2008; Ord. 13-10, passed 6-14-2010; Ord. 06-11, passed 6-13-2011; Ord. 12-
11, passed 7-25-2011; Ord. 19-14, passed 1-19-2015)
§ 54.21 BILLS.
   (A)   Bills for water service shall be rendered monthly and the due date for
said bill for such service shall be paid by the tenth of the month in which
such bill is rendered. Should any such bill remain unpaid after said due date,
a penalty of 10% of such billing shall be added thereto. Should such bill
remain unpaid for a period of 30 days after said due date, the Village
Administrator is hereby authorized to cut off such service. Such service shall
be resumed only upon payment of all outstanding bills, whether the same have
been due 30 days or not, plus an additional fee of $25. If such bill is not
paid within 90 days after such due date, the Fiscal Officer is authorized and
directed to certify the delinquent bill to the County Auditor for collection as
and at the time that other taxes and assessments are collected.
   (B)   In addition, the minimum monthly charge for all water services which
has been shut off at the request of the property owner or lessee for the reason
that the system incurs ongoing expenses even though such service has been shut
off shall be one-half of the monthly minimum charge per month during any month
or part of a month during which the water services are disconnected or shut
off.
   (C)   Provided, that the property owner may waive, in writing, such owner’s
right to existing water services to properties which are uninhabitable or from
which the dwelling or other structure is to be or has been removed; and after
signing such waiver, the owner shall be exempt from the payment of the one-half
monthly minimum charge. Such waiver shall provide that in the event the
reinstallation of water service is requested, such owner shall pay to the
village the full cost of such reinstallation and appropriate benefit units.
Such owner shall be liable for the payment of all outstanding bills for water
service prior to the time such owner signs the waiver referred to herein.
(Ord. 32-96, passed 10-7-1996; Ord. 10-00, passed 6-26-2000; Ord. 06-08, passed
4-14-2008; Ord. 13-10, passed 6-14-2010; Ord. 06-11, passed 6-13-2011; Ord. 12-
11, passed 7-25-2011; Ord. 14-12, passed 7-9-2012; Ord. 19-14, passed 1-19-
2015)
§ 54.22 PROPERTY OWNER LIABILITY.
   The owner of private property which is served by the water distribution
system and the water treatment plant by pipes connected with said system and
plant to convey drinking water thereto shall, as well as the lessee of the
premises, be liable to the village for all water used from said premises
whether or not said owner or lessee was the actual customer of the water. Where
water service charges are not paid, the village shall have the right to shut
off the water supply, until payments are made.
(Ord. 32-96, passed 10-7-1996; Ord. 10-00, passed 6-26-2000; Ord. 06-08, passed
4-14-2008; Ord. 13-10, passed 6-14-2010; Ord. 06-11, passed 6-13-2011; Ord. 12-
11, passed 7-25-2011; Ord. 19-14, passed 1-19-2015)
§ 54.23 ENFORCEMENT OF RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Village Administrator shall make and enforce such rules and regulations
as he or she may deem necessary for the enforcement of the provisions hereof,
for the proper determination and collection of the rates and charges herein
provided, and for the efficient and economical management of the water system;
and such rules and regulations when not repugnant to the existing ordinances of
the village or the laws of the state shall have the same force and effect as an
ordinance or resolution of this Council.
(Ord. 32-96, passed 10-7-1996; Ord. 10-00, passed 6-26-2000; Ord. 06-08, passed
4-14-2008; Ord. 13-10, passed 6-14-2010; Ord. 06-11, passed 6-13-2011; Ord. 12-
11, passed 7-25-2011; Ord. 19-14, passed 1-19-2015)
§ 54.24 CHARGE IF PAVED SURFACE OF PUBLIC STREET IS DISTURBED.
   In addition thereto, and in order to ensure the proper maintenance of the
streets of the village, a charge of $350 shall be required if the paved surface
of any public street of the village is required to be cut or opened; provided,
however that none of the above charges shall be levied in the event that such
entry is ordered by the appropriate official or officials of the village. All
street cuts made as hereinbefore contemplated shall have a saw cut edge or be
cut with an air spade and trenches thus created shall be backfilled with wetted
granular backfill material (304.02) in compacted layers not to exceed six
inches. Granular fill shall be kept in a minimum of five inches below the
finished grade with 404 asphaltic concrete and compacted to meet the finished
grade.
(Ord. 32-96, passed 10-7-1996; Ord. 10-00, passed 6-26-2000; Ord. 06-08, passed
4-14-2008; Ord. 13-10, passed 6-14-2010; Ord. 06-11, passed 6-13-2011; Ord. 12-
11, passed 7-25-2011)
RATES AND CHARGES FOR THE OPERATIONS AND CLEANUP OF THE
YARD WASTE RECYCLING CENTER
§ 54.40 MONTHLY RATE.
   (A)   In order to pay the expenses of operating and maintaining the Bluffton
Yard Waste Recycle Center service of the village, and to make provisions of
additional funds for the construction of improvements and betterment to the
said facility, the rate shown in Exhibit 1 of Chapter 40 is to be paid by all
water and sewer customers within the village corporation limits.
   (B)   The water and sewer customers described above may haul away for
personal use the processed or finished mulch at no cost on a first come first
serve basis as long as it is available.
(Ord. 5-00, passed 4-24-2000; Ord. 21-14, passed 1-19-2015)
§ 54.41 BILLS.
   (A)   Bills for yard waste service shall be rendered monthly and the due
date for said bill for such service shall be paid by the tenth of the month in
which such bill is rendered. Should any such bill remain unpaid after said due
date, a penalty of 10% of such billing shall be added thereto.
   (B)   In addition, all water and sewer customers will be billed each month
of the year with no exceptions for vacations, temporary vacancies and the like.
(Ord. 5-00, passed 4-24-2000)
§ 54.42 PROPERTY OWNER LIABILITY.
   The owner of private property which is served by the water distribution
system and the water treatment plant by pipes connected with said system and
plant to convey drinking water thereto and sewer collection system and sewer
treatment plant by pipes connected with said system and plant to receive waste
water thereto shall, as well as the lessee of the premises, are liable to the
village for the monthly Yard Waste Recycle Center service fee whether or not
said owner or leasor was the actual water or sewer customer.
(Ord. 5-00, passed 4-24-2000; Ord. 21-14, passed 1-19-2015)
§ 54.43 ENFORCEMENT OF RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Village Administrator shall make and enforce such rules and regulations
as he or she may deem necessary for the enforcement of the provisions hereof,
for the proper determination and collection of the rates and charges herein
provided, and for the efficient and economical management of the Yard Waste
Recycle Center Facility; and such rules and regulations when not repugnant to
the existing ordinances of the village or the laws of the state shall have the
same force and effect as an ordinance or resolution of this Council.
(Ord. 5-00, passed 4-24-2000; Ord. 21-14, passed 1-19-2015)
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Tampering with any meter, in violation of §
54.06, shall be deemed unlawful and considered a misdemeanor; subject to a fine
not to exceed $100.
(Ord. 32-96, passed 10-7-1996; Ord. 35-96, passed 10-7-1996; Ord. 10-00, passed
6-26-2000; Ord. 20-00, passed 11-7-2000; Ord. 18-02, passed 7-16-2002; Ord. 06-
08, passed 4-14-2008; Ord. 13-10, passed 6-14-2010; Ord. 14-10, passed 6-14-
2010; Ord. 05-11, passed 6-13-2011; Ord. 06-11, passed 6-13-2011; Ord. 11-11,
passed 7-25-2011; Ord. 12-11, passed 7-25-2011; Ord. 14-12, passed 7-9-2012)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
72.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
73.   MOTOR VEHICLE CRIMES
      
74.   EQUIPMENT AND LOADS
      
75.   BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
      
76.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
77.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
78.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Compliance with order of police officer
   
70.03   Emergency vehicles to proceed cautiously past red or stop signal
   
70.04   Exceptions generally; emergency, public safety and coroner vehicles
exempt
   
70.05   Persons riding or driving animals upon roadways
   
70.06   Prohibitions against pedestrians and slow-moving vehicles on freeways
   
70.07   Use of private property for vehicular travel
   
70.08   Names of persons damaging real property by operation of vehicle to be
provided to owner
   
70.09   Limited access highways; barriers along; vehicles to enter and leave at
designated intersections
   
70.10   Through highways
   
70.11   Officer may remove ignition key
   
70.12   Removal of vehicles after accidents
   
70.13   Municipal motor vehicle license tax
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.30   Obeying traffic-control devices
   
70.31   Signal lights
   
70.32   Signals over reversible lanes
   
70.33   Ambiguous or non-working traffic signals
   
70.34   Pedestrian-control signals
   
70.35   Unauthorized signs and signals prohibited
   
70.36   Alteration, defacement, or removal prohibited
   
70.37   Unauthorized possession or sale of devices
   
70.38   Signal preemption devices; prohibitions
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Unauthorized use of a motor vehicle, see §
131.09
Statutory reference:
   Local traffic regulations, scope and authority, see R.C. § 4511.07
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Traffic law photo-monitoring devices, state regulations, see R.C. §§
4511.092 et seq.
   Uniform application and precedence of state traffic laws, see R.C. § 4511.06
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided, the definitions set forth in R.C. § 4501.01
shall apply to this Title,
Chapter 95, and the penal laws of the municipality. For the purpose of this
Title and
Chapter 95, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR. Every self-propelled vehicle designed or used for
drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery, but having no provision for
carrying loads independently of such other vehicles, and used principally for
agricultural purposes.
   ALLEY. A street or highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of
lots or buildings in urban districts, and not intended for the purpose of
through vehicular traffic, and any street or highway that has been declared an
“alley” by the Legislative Authority of the municipality in which the street or
highway is located.
   ARTERIAL STREET. Any United States or state numbered route, controlled-
access highway, or other major radial or circumferential street or highway
designated by local authorities within their respective jurisdictions as part
of a major arterial system of streets or highways.
   BEACON. A highway traffic signal with one or more signal sections that
operate in a flashing mode.
   BICYCLE. Every device, other than a device that is designed solely for use
as a play vehicle by a child, that is propelled solely by human power upon
which a person may ride, and that has or more wheels, any of which is more than
14 inches in diameter.
   BUS. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than nine passengers,
and used for the transportation of persons other than in a ridesharing
arrangement, and every motor vehicle, automobile for hire, or funeral car,
other than a taxicab or motor vehicle used in a ridesharing arrangement,
designed and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory fronting upon a street or highway,
including the street or highway, between successive intersections within the
municipality, where 50% or more of the frontage between successive
intersections is occupied by buildings in use for business, or within or
outside the municipality where 50% or more of the frontage for a distance of
300 feet or more is occupied by buildings in use for business, and the
character of the territory is indicated by official traffic-control devices.
   CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE. A motor vehicle that is designed to carry nine or
fewer passengers and is operated for hire pursuant to a prearranged contract
for the transportation of passengers on public roads and highways along a route
under the control of the person hiring the vehicle and not over a defined and
regular route. “Prearranged contract” means an agreement, made in advance of
boarding, to provide transportation from a specific location in an chauffeured
limousine. The term does not include any vehicle that is used exclusively in
the business of funeral directing. (R.C. § 4501.01(LL))
   CHILD DAY-CARE CENTER. Has the same meaning as set forth in R.C. § 5104.01.
   COMMERCIAL TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle having motive power designed or used
for drawing other vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry any load
thereon, or designed or used for drawing other vehicles while carrying a
portion of the other vehicles, or the load thereon, or both.
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every street or highway in respect to which
owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal right or
access to or from the same except at certain points only and in a manner as may
be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over the street or
highway.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   That part of a roadway at intersections ordinarily included within
the real or projected prolongation of property lines and curb lines or, in the
absence of curbs, the edges of the traversable roadway;
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere,
distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the
surface;
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this definition, there
shall not be a crosswalk where the Legislative Authority has placed signs
indicating no crossing.
   DRIVER. Any person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
   ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a “class 1 electric bicycle”, a “class 2 electric
bicycle”, or a “class 3 electric bicycle” as defined below.
      (1)   CLASS 1 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that
provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide
assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles per hour.
      (2)   CLASS 2 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that may
provide assistance regardless of whether the rider is pedaling and is not
capable of providing assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles
per hour.
      (3)   CLASS 3 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that
provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide
assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 28 miles per hour.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Emergency vehicles of municipal, township or county
departments or public utility corporations, when identified as such as required
by law, the Director of Public Safety, or local authorities, and motor vehicles
when commandeered by a police officer.
   EXPLOSIVES. Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is intended for
the purpose of producing an explosion that contains any oxidizing and
combustible units or other ingredients in such proportions, quantities, or
packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by percussion, or
by a detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause a sudden
generation of highly heated gases, such that the resultant gaseous pressures
are capable of producing destructive effects on contiguous objects, or of
destroying life or limb. Manufactured articles shall not be held to be
explosives when the individual units contain explosives in limited quantities
of such nature or in such packing that it is impossible to procure a
simultaneous or a destructive explosion of the units, to the injury of life,
limb, or property by fire, friction, concussion, percussion, or by a detonator,
such as fixed ammunition for small arms, firecrackers, or safety fuse matches.
   EXPRESSWAY. A divided arterial highway for through traffic with full or
partial control of access with an excess of 50% of all crossroads separated in
grade.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID. Any liquid which has a flash point of 70°F or less, as
determined by a tagliabue or equivalent closed cup test device.
   FREEWAY. A divided multi-lane highway for through traffic with crossroads
separated in grade and with full control of access.
   FUNERAL ESCORT VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, including a funeral hearse, while
used to facilitate the movement of a funeral procession.
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle plus the weight of any load thereon.
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way open to
the use of the public as a thoroughfare for purposes of vehicular travel.
   HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle used in snow and ice removal or road
surface maintenance, including a snow plow, traffic line striper, road sweeper,
mowing machine, asphalt distributing vehicle, or other such vehicle designed
for use in specific highway maintenance activities.
   HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SIGNAL. A power-operated traffic-control device by which
traffic is warned or directed to take some specific action. The term does not
include a power-operated sign, steadily illuminated pavement marker, warning
light, or steady burning electric lamp.
   HYBRID BEACON. A type of beacon that is intentionally placed in a dark mode
between periods of operation where no indications are displayed and, when in
operation, displays both steady and flashing traffic-control signal
indications.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of
two highways that join one another at, or approximately at, right angles, or
the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways that join at
any other angle might come into conflict. The junction of an alley or driveway
with a roadway or highway does not constitute an intersection unless the
roadway or highway at the junction is controlled by a traffic-control device.
      (2)   If a highway includes two roadways that are 30 feet or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway constitutes a separate intersection. If both intersecting highways
include two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then every crossing of any two
roadways of such highways constitutes a separate intersection.
      (3)   At a location controlled by a traffic-control signal, regardless of
the distance between the separate intersections as described in division (2) of
this definition:
         (a)   If a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk has not been designated
on the roadway within the median between the separate intersections, the two
intersections and the roadway and median constitute one intersection.
         (b)   Where a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk line is designated
on the roadway on the intersection approach, the area within the crosswalk and
any area beyond the designated stop line or yield line constitute part of the
intersection.
         (c)   Where a crosswalk is designated on a roadway on the departure
from the intersection, the intersection includes the area that extends to the
far side of the crosswalk.
   LANED HIGHWAY. A highway the roadway of which is divided into two or more
clearly marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
   LOCAL AUTHORITIES. Every county, municipal, and other local board or body
having authority to adopt police regulations under the Constitution and laws of
this state.
   LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICE. Means a device weighing less than 100 pounds
that has handlebars, is propelled by an electric motor or human power, and has
an attainable speed on a paved level surface of not more than 20 miles per hour
when propelled by the electric motor.
   MEDIAN. The area between two roadways of a divided highway, measured from
edge of traveled way to edge of traveled way, but excluding turn lanes. The
width of a median may be different between intersections, between interchanges,
and at opposite approaches of the same intersection.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle propelled or drawn by power other than muscular
power or power collected from overhead electric trolley wires, except motorized
bicycles, electric bicycles, road rollers, traction engines, power shovels,
power cranes and other equipment used in construction work, and not designed
for or employed in general highway transportation, hole-digging machinery,
well- drilling machinery, ditch-digging machinery, farm machinery, and trailers
designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage
and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or
highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 mph or
less.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle, other than a tractor, having a seat or
saddle for the use of the operator and designed to travel on not more than
three wheels in contact with the ground, including but not limited to motor
vehicles known as “motor-driven cycle”, “motor scooter”, “autocycle”, “cab-
enclosed motorcycle”, or “motorcycle” without regard to weight or brake
horsepower.
   MOTORIZED BICYCLE or MOPED. Any vehicle having either two tandem wheels or
one wheel in the front and two wheels in the rear, that may be pedaled, and
that is equipped with a helper motor of not more than 50 cubic centimeters
piston displacement that produces not more than one brake horsepower and is
capable of propelling the vehicle at a speed of not greater than 20 mph on a
level surface. The terms do not include an electric bicycle.
   MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR. Any self-propelled vehicle designed for, and used by,
a person with a disability and that is incapable of a speed in excess of eight
mph.
   MULTI-WHEEL AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR. A type of agricultural tractor that has
two or more wheels or tires on each side of one axle at the rear of the
tractor, is designed or used for drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery,
has no provision for carrying loads independently of the drawn vehicles or
machinery, and is used principally for agricultural purposes.
   OPERATE. To cause or have caused movement of a vehicle.
   OPERATOR. Any person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   PARKED or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle upon a street, road, alley,
highway or public ground, whether accompanied or unaccompanied by a driver, but
does not include the temporary standing of a vehicle for the purpose of and
while actually engaged in loading or loading merchandise or passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any natural person afoot. The term includes a personal delivery
device as defined in R.C. § 4511.513 unless the context clearly suggests
otherwise.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, partnership, association or corporation.
   POLE TRAILER. Every trailer or semitrailer attached to the towing vehicle by
means of a reach, pole, or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing
vehicle, and ordinarily used for transporting long or irregular shaped loads
such as poles, pipes, or structural members capable, generally, of sustaining
themselves as beams between the supporting connections.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or
to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   PREDICATE MOTOR VEHICLE OR TRAFFIC OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12, 4511.132,
4511.16, 4511.20, 4511.201, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.22, 4511.23,
4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32,
4511.33, 4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40,
4511.41, 4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.451,
4511.452, 4511.46, 4511.47, 4511.48, 4511.481, 4511.49, 4511.50, 4511.511,
4511.53, 4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.56, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60,
4511.61, 4511.64, 4511.66, 4511.661, 4511.68, 4511.70, 4511.701, 4511.71,
4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, 4511.73, 4511.763, 4511.771, 4511.78, or
4511.84;
      (2)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.17(A)(2), 4511.51(A) through (D), or
4511.74(A);
      (3)   A violation of any provision of R.C. §§ 4511.01 through 4511.76 for
which no penalty otherwise is provided in the section that contains the
provision violated;
      (4)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.214;
      (5)   A violation of a municipal ordinance that is substantially
equivalent to any section or provision set forth or described in division (1),
(2), (3), or (4) of this definition.
   PRIVATE ROAD OPEN TO PUBLIC TRAVEL. A private toll road or road, including
any adjacent sidewalks that generally run parallel to the road, within a
shopping center, airport, sports arena, or other similar business or recreation
facility that is privately owned but where the public is allowed to travel
without access restrictions. The term includes a gated toll road but does not
include a road within a private gated property where access is restricted at
all times, a parking area, a driving aisle within a parking area, or a private
grade crossing.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership used for
vehicular travel by the owner, and those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons.
   PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Any of the following:
      (1)   Ambulances, including private ambulance companies under contract to
a municipality, township, or county, and private ambulances and nontransport
vehicles bearing license plates issued under R.C. § 4503.49;
      (2)   Motor vehicles used by public law enforcement officers or other
persons sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state;
      (3)   Any motor vehicle when properly identified as required by the
Director of Public Safety, when used in response to fire emergency calls or to
provide emergency medical service to ill or injured persons, and when operated
by a duly qualified person who is a member of a volunteer rescue service or a
volunteer fire department, and who is on duty pursuant to the rules or
directives of that service. The State Fire Marshal shall be designated by the
Director of Public Safety as the certifying agency for all public safety
vehicles described herein;
      (4)   Vehicles used by fire departments, including motor vehicles when
used by volunteer firefighters responding to emergency calls in the fire
department service when identified as required by the Director of Public
Safety;
      (5)   Any vehicle used to transport or provide emergency medical service
to an ill or injured person, when certified as a public safety vehicle, shall
be considered such a vehicle when transporting an ill or injured person to a
hospital, regardless of whether such vehicle has already passed a hospital;
      (6)   Vehicles used by the Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit for the
enforcement of orders and rules of the Public Utilities Commission as specified
in R.C. § 5503.34.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property operating upon rails placed
principally on a private right-of-way.
   RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL. Any sign, signal, or device erected by authority of
a public body or official or by a railroad, and intended to give notice of the
presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine or an electric or other motor, with or
without cars coupled thereto, operated by a railroad.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory, not comprising a business district,
fronting on a street or highway, including the street or highway, where, for a
distance of 300 feet or more, the frontage is improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
   RIDESHARING ARRANGEMENT. Includes the transportation of persons in a motor
vehicle where the transportation is incidental to another purpose of a
volunteer driver, and includes arrangements known as carpools, vanpools, and
buspools.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Either of the following, as the context requires:
      (1)   The right of a vehicle or pedestrian to proceed uninterruptedly in
a lawful manner in the direction in which it, he or she is moving, in
preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching from a different
direction into its, his or her path;
      (2)   A general term denoting land, property, or the interest therein,
usually in the configuration of a strip, acquired for or devoted to
transportation purposes. When used in this context, “right-of-way” includes the
roadway, shoulders or berm, ditch, and slopes extending to the right-of-way
limits under the control of the state or local authority.
   ROAD SERVICE VEHICLE. Means wreckers, utility repair vehicles, and state,
county, and municipal service vehicles equipped with visual signals by means of
flashing, rotating, or oscillating lights.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes two or
more separate roadways, the term means any roadway separately, but not all the
roadways collectively.
   RURAL MAIL DELIVERY VEHICLE. Every vehicle used to deliver United States
mail on a rural mail delivery route.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians, and protected or marked or indicated by adequate
signs so as to be plainly visible at all times.
   SCHOOL BUS. Every bus designed for carrying more than nine passengers which
is owned by a public, private, or governmental agency or institution of
learning, and operated for the transportation of children to or from a school
session or a school function, or owned by a private person and operated for
compensation for the transportation of children to or from a school session or
a school function; provided the term does not include a bus operated by a
municipally owned transportation system, a mass transit company operating
exclusively within the territorial limits of a municipality, or within such
limits and the territorial limits of municipalities immediately contiguous to
the municipality, nor a common passenger carrier certified by the Public
Utilities Commission unless the bus is devoted exclusively to the
transportation of children to and from a school session or a school function,
and the term does not include a van or bus used by a licensed child day-care
center or Type A Family Day-Care Home to transport children from the child day-
care center or Type A Family Day-Care Home to a school if the van or bus does
not have more than 15 children in the van or bus at any time.
   SEMITRAILER. Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property
with another and separate motor vehicle so that in operation a part of its own
weight or that of its load, or both, rests upon and is carried by another
vehicle.
   SHARED-USE PATH. A bikeway outside the traveled way and physically separated
from motorized vehicular traffic by an open space or barrier and either within
the highway right-of-way or within an independent alignment. A shared-use path
also may be used by pedestrians, including skaters, joggers, users of manual
and motorized wheelchairs, and other authorized motorized and non-motorized
users. A shared-use path does not include any trail that is intended to be used
primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or other similar uses,
or any other single track or natural surface trail that has historically been
reserved for non-motorized use.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
line of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STANDING. When prohibited, means any halting of a vehicle, even momentarily,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with the directions of a police officer or traffic-control device.
   STATE HIGHWAY. A highway under the jurisdiction of the Department of
Transportation, outside the limits of municipalities, provided that the
authority conferred upon the Director of Transportation in R.C. § 5511.01 to
erect state highway route markers and signs directing traffic shall not be
modified by R.C. §§ 4511.01 through 4511.79 and 4511.99.
   STATE ROUTE. Every highway which is designated with an official state route
number and so marked.
   STOP. When required, means a complete cessation of movement.
   STOP INTERSECTION. Any intersection at one or more entrances of which stop
signs are erected.
   STOPPING. When prohibited, means any halting of a vehicle, even momentarily,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with the directions of a police officer or traffic-control device.
   STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way open to the
use of the public as a thoroughfare for purposes of vehicular travel.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every street or highway as provided in R.C. § 4511.65, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   THRUWAY. A through highway whose entire roadway is reserved for through
traffic and on which roadway parking is prohibited.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and
other devices, either singly or together, while using for purposes of travel
any highway or private road open to public travel.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE. A flagger, sign, signal, marking, or other device
used to regulate, warn, or guide traffic, placed on, over, or adjacent to a
street, highway, private road open to public travel, pedestrian facility, or
shared-use path by authority of a public agency or official having
jurisdiction, or, in the case of a private road open to public travel, by
authority of the private owner or private official having jurisdiction.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any highway traffic signal by which traffic is
alternately directed to stop and permitted to proceed.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property
wholly on its own structure, and for being drawn by a motor vehicle, including
any vehicle when formed by or operated as a combination of a semitrailer and a
vehicle of the dolly type, such as that commonly known as a trailer dolly, a
vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production
materials between a local place of storage or supply and the farm when drawn or
towed on a street or highway at a speed greater than 25 mph and a vehicle
designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage
and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or
highway for a distance of more than ten miles or at a speed of more than 25
mph.
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers, designed and
used to carry property.
   TYPE A FAMILY DAY-CARE HOME. Has the same meaning as set forth in R.C. §
5104.01.
   URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including any street or
highway which is built up with structures devoted to business, industry, or
dwelling houses situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of
one-quarter of a mile or more, and the character of the territory is indicated
by official traffic-control devices.
   VEHICLE. Every device, including a motorized bicycle and an electric
bicycle, in, upon, or by which any person or property may be transported or
drawn upon a highway, except that the term does not include any motorized
wheelchair, any electric personal assistive mobility device, any low-speed
micromobility device, any personal delivery device as defined in R.C. §
4511.513, any device that is moved by power collected from overhead electric
trolley wires or that is used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, or
any device, other than a bicycle, that is moved by human power.
   WASTE COLLECTION VEHICLE. A vehicle used in the collection of garbage,
refuse, trash, or recyclable materials.
(R.C. § 4511.01)
§ 70.02 COMPLIANCE WITH ORDER OF POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall fail to comply with any lawful order or direction of
any police officer invested with authority to direct, control, or regulate
traffic.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle so as willfully to elude or
flee a police officer after receiving a visible or audible signal from a police
officer to bring the person’s motor vehicle to a stop.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to comply
with an order or signal of a police officer.
      (2)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (C)(4) and (C)(5) of this section,
a violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (C)(5) of this section, a violation
of division (B) of this section is a felony and shall be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier of fact finds by proof
beyond a reasonable doubt that in committing the offense, the offender was
fleeing immediately after the commission of a felony.
      (5)   (a)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a felony and
shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier
of fact finds any of the following by proof beyond a reasonable doubt:
            1.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender was a
proximate cause of serious physical harm to persons or property.
            2.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender caused a
substantial risk of serious physical harm to persons or property.
         (b)   If a police officer pursues an offender who is violating
division (B) of this section and division (C)(5)(a) of this section applies,
the sentencing court, in determining the seriousness of an offender’s conduct
for purposes of sentencing the offender for a violation of division (B) of this
section, shall consider, along with the factors set forth in R.C. §§ 2929.12
and 2929.13 that are required to be considered, all of the following:
            1.   The duration of the pursuit;
            2.   The distance of the pursuit;
            3.   The rate of speed at which the offender operated the motor
vehicle during the pursuit;
            4.   Whether the offender failed to stop for traffic lights or stop
signs during the pursuit;
            5.   The number of traffic lights or stop signs for which the
offender failed to stop during the pursuit;
            6.   Whether the offender operated the motor vehicle during the
pursuit without lighted lights during a time when lighted lights are required;
            7.   Whether the offender committed a moving violation during the
pursuit;
            8.   The number of moving violations the offender committed during
the pursuit;
            9.   Any other relevant factors indicating that the offender’s
conduct is more serious than conduct normally constituting the offense.
   (D)   In addition to any other sanction imposed for a violation of division
(A) of this section or a misdemeanor violation of division (B) of this section,
the court shall impose a class five suspension from the range specified in R.C.
§ 4510.02(A)(5). If the offender previously has been found guilty of an offense
under this section or under R.C. § 2921.331 or any other substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, in addition to any other sanction imposed for
the offense, the court shall impose a class one suspension as described in R.C.
§ 4510.02(A)(1). The court may grant limited driving privileges to the offender
on a suspension imposed for a misdemeanor violation of this section as set
forth in R.C. § 4510.021. No judge shall suspend any portion of the suspension
under a class one suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege
required by this division.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      MOVING VIOLATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2743.70.
      POLICE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 2921.331(A) - (C), (E), (F))
Cross-reference:
   Resisting arrest, see §
136.08
§ 70.03 EMERGENCY VEHICLES TO PROCEED CAUTIOUSLY PAST RED OR STOP SIGNAL.
   (A)   The driver of any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, upon approaching a red or stop signal or any
stop sign, shall slow down as necessary for safety to traffic, but may proceed
cautiously past the red or stop sign or signal with due regard for the safety
of all persons using the street or highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.03)
§ 70.04 EXCEPTIONS GENERALLY; EMERGENCY, PUBLIC SAFETY AND CORONER VEHICLES
EXEMPT.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code, except for §§
73.01 and
73.02, do not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles, and other equipment
while actually engaged in work upon the surface of a highway within an area
designated by traffic-control devices, but apply to those persons and vehicles
when traveling to or from such work.
   (B)   The driver of a highway maintenance vehicle owned by this state or any
political subdivision of this state, while the driver is engaged in the
performance of official duties upon a street or highway, provided the highway
maintenance vehicle is equipped with flashing lights and such other markings as
are required by law and such lights are in operation when the driver and
vehicle are so engaged, shall be exempt from criminal prosecution for
violations of R.C. §§ 4511.22, 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.30,
4511.31, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.66, and 4513.02, and R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, and any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   (1)   This section does not exempt a driver of a highway maintenance
vehicle from civil liability arising from a violation of R.C. § 4511.22,
4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.33, 4511.35,
4511.66, or 4513.02 or R.C. §§ 5577.01 through 5577.09, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   This section does not exempt a driver of a vehicle who is not a
state employee and who is engaged in the transport of highway maintenance
equipment from criminal liability for a violation of R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   As used in this section, ENGAGED IN THE PERFORMANCE OF OFFICIAL DUTIES
includes driving a highway maintenance vehicle to and from the manufacturer or
vehicle maintenance provider and transporting a highway maintenance vehicle,
equipment, or materials to and from a work location.
(R.C. § 4511.04)
   (E)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4511.12, 4511.13, 4511.131, 4511.132,
4511.14, 4511.202, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25, 4511.26,
4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.34,
4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41, 4511.42,
4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59,
4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.62, 4511.66, 4511.68, 4511.681, and 4511.69, and any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, do not apply to the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle if the emergency vehicle or public
safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle and if the driver of the vehicles is giving an audible signal by siren,
exhaust whistle, or bell. This section does not relieve the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.041)
   (F)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29,
4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, and
4511.66, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, do not apply to
a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle
in accordance with R.C. § 4513.171 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. This division does not relieve a coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with
due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.042)
§ 70.05 PERSONS RIDING OR DRIVING ANIMALS UPON ROADWAYS.
   Every person riding, driving, or leading an animal upon a roadway is subject
to the provisions of this traffic code, applicable to the driver of a vehicle,
except those provisions of this traffic code which by their nature are
inapplicable.
(R.C. § 4511.05)
§ 70.06 PROHIBITIONS AGAINST PEDESTRIANS AND SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES ON FREEWAYS.
   (A)   No person, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, shall:
      (1)   As a pedestrian, occupy any space within the limits of the right-
of-way of a freeway, except: in a rest area; on a facility that is separated
from the roadway and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately
marked for pedestrian use; in the performance of public works or official
duties; as a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown of a
motor vehicle; or to obtain assistance;
      (2)   Occupy any space within the limits of the right-of-way of a
freeway, with: an animal-drawn vehicle; a ridden or led animal; herded animals;
a pushcart; a bicycle, except on a facility that is separated from the roadway
and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately marked for
bicycle use; an electric bicycle; a bicycle with motor attached; a motor-driven
cycle with a motor which produces not to exceed five brake horsepower; an
agricultural tractor; farm machinery; except in the performance of public works
or official duties.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.051)
Statutory reference:
   Designation of a freeway, see R.C. § 4511.011
§ 70.07 USE OF PRIVATE PROPERTY FOR VEHICULAR TRAVEL.
   The provisions of this traffic code do not prevent the owner of real
property, used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel by permission of
the owner and not as a matter of right, from prohibiting such use or from
requiring additional conditions to those specified in this traffic code, or
otherwise regulating such use as may seem best to the owner.
(R.C. § 4511.08)
§ 70.08 NAMES OF PERSONS DAMAGING REAL PROPERTY BY OPERATION OF VEHICLE TO BE
PROVIDED TO OWNER.
   (A)   As used in this section, MOTOR VEHICLE has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 4501.01.
   (B)   If damage is caused to real property by the operation of a motor
vehicle in, or during the, violation of any section of the Ohio Revised Code or
of any municipal ordinance, the law enforcement agency that investigates the
case, upon request of the real property owner, shall provide the owner with the
names of the persons who are charged with the commission of the offense. If a
request for the names is made, the agency shall provide the names as soon as
possible after the persons are charged with the offense.
   (C)   The personnel of law enforcement agencies who act pursuant to division
(B) of this section in good faith are not liable in damages in a civil action
allegedly arising from their actions taken pursuant to that division. Political
subdivisions and the state are not liable in damages in a civil action
allegedly arising from the actions of personnel of their law enforcement
agencies if the personnel have immunity under this division.
(R.C. § 2935.28)
§ 70.09 LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAYS; BARRIERS ALONG; VEHICLES TO ENTER AND LEAVE AT
DESIGNATED INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall cut, injure, remove, or destroy
any fence or other barrier designed and erected to prevent traffic from
entering or leaving a limited access highway without the permission of the
Director of Transportation, except in a case of emergency where life or
property is in danger. No person, firm or corporation shall cause a vehicle of
any character to enter or leave a limited access highway at any point other
than intersections designated by the Director for such purposes, except in a
case of emergency where life or property is in danger.
(R.C. § 3767.201)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3767.99(D))
§ 70.10 THROUGH HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   All state routes are hereby designated as through highways, provided
that stop signs, yield signs, or traffic-control signals shall be erected at
all intersections with such through highways by the Department of
Transportation as to highways under its jurisdiction and by local authorities
as to highways under their jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this
section. Where two or more state routes that are through highways intersect,
and no traffic-control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall
be erected at one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local
authorities having jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section.
Whenever the Director of Transportation determines on the basis of an
engineering and traffic investigation that stop signs are necessary to stop
traffic on a through highway for safe and efficient operation, nothing in this
section shall be construed to prevent such installations. When circumstances
warrant, the Director also may omit stop signs on roadways intersecting through
highways under his or her jurisdiction. Before the Director either installs or
removes a stop sign under this division, he or she shall give notice, in
writing, of that proposed action to the affected local authority at least 30
days before installing or removing the stop sign.
   (B)   Other streets or highways, or portions thereof, are hereby designated
as through highways if they are within the municipality, if they have a
continuous length of more than one mile between the limits of the street or
highway or portion thereof, and if they have stop or yield signs or traffic-
control signals at the entrances of the majority of intersecting streets or
highways. For purposes of this section, the limits of the street or highway, or
portion thereof, shall be the municipal corporation line, the physical terminus
of the street or highway, or any point on the streets or highway at which
vehicular traffic thereon is required by regulatory signs to stop or yield to
traffic on the intersecting street, provided, that in residence districts, the
municipality may by ordinance designate such street or highway, or portion
thereof, not to be a through highway and thereafter the affected residence
district shall be indicated by official traffic-control devices. Where two or
more through highways designated under this division intersect and no traffic-
control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall be erected at
one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local authorities having
jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section.
   (C)   The Department or local authorities having jurisdiction need not erect
stop signs at intersections they find to be so constructed as to permit traffic
to safely enter a through highway without coming to a stop. Signs shall be
erected at such intersections indicating that the operator of a vehicle shall
yield the right-of-way to or merge with all traffic proceeding on the through
highway.
   (D)   Local authorities, with reference to highways under their
jurisdiction, may designate additional through highways, and shall erect stop
signs, yield signs, or traffic-control signals at all streets and highways
intersecting such through highways, or may designate any intersection as a stop
or yield intersection, and shall erect like signs at one or more entrances to
the intersection.
(R.C. § 4511.65)
§ 70.11 OFFICER MAY REMOVE IGNITION KEY.
   A law enforcement officer may remove the ignition key left in the ignition
switch of an unlocked and unattended motor vehicle parked on a street or
highway. The officer removing the key shall place notification upon the vehicle
detailing his or her name and badge number, the place where the key may be
reclaimed, and the procedure for reclaiming the key. The key shall be returned
to the owner of the motor vehicle upon presentation of proof of ownership.
(R.C. § 4549.05)
§ 70.12 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES AFTER ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   If a motor vehicle accident occurs on any highway, public street, or
other property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel and if any
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property that has been damaged or spilled as
a result of the motor vehicle accident is blocking the highway, street, or
other property or is otherwise endangering public safety, a public safety
official may do either of the following without the consent of the owner but
with the approval of the law enforcement agency conducting any investigation of
the accident:
      (1)   Remove, or order the removal of, the motor vehicle if the motor
vehicle is unoccupied, cargo, or personal property from the portion of the
highway, public street, or property ordinarily used for vehicular travel on the
highway, public street, or other property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel.
      (2)   If the motor vehicle is a commercial motor vehicle, allow the owner
or operator of the vehicle the opportunity to arrange for the removal of the
motor vehicle within a period of time specified by the public safety official.
If the public safety official determines that the motor vehicle cannot be
removed within the specified period of time, the public safety official shall
remove or order the removal of the motor vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, the
Department of Transportation, any employee of the Department of Transportation,
or a public safety official who authorizes or participates in the removal of
any unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property as authorized by
division (A) of this section, regardless of whether the removal is executed by
a private towing service, is not liable for civil damages for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that results from the removal of that
unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property. Further, except as
provided in division (B)(2) of this section, if a public safety official
authorizes, employs, or arranges to have a private towing service remove any
unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property as authorized by division
(A) of this section, that private towing service is not liable for civil
damages for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that results from
the removal of that unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
         (a)   Any person or entity involved in the removal of an unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property pursuant to division (A) of this
section if that removal causes or contributes to the release of a hazardous
material or to structural damage to the roadway;
         (b)   A private towing service that was not authorized, employed, or
arranged by a public safety official to remove an unoccupied motor vehicle,
cargo, or personal property under this section;
         (c)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(d) of this section, a
private towing service that was authorized, employed, or arranged by a public
safety official to perform the removal of the unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo,
or personal property but the private towing service performed the removal in a
negligent manner;
         (d)   A private towing service that was authorized, employed, or
arranged by a public safety official to perform the removal of the unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property that was endangering public safety
but the private towing service performed the removal in a reckless manner.
   (C)   As used in divisions (A) and (B) of this section:
      HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.232.
      PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICIAL. Means any of the following:
         (a)   The sheriff of the county, or the chief of police in the
municipal corporation, township, port authority, or township or joint police
district, in which the accident occurred;
         (b)   A state highway patrol trooper;
         (c)   The chief of the fire department having jurisdiction where the
accident occurred;
         (d)   A duly authorized subordinate acting on behalf of an official
specified in divisions (a) to (c) of this definition.
(R.C. § 4513.66)
   (D)   If a towing service is removing a motor vehicle, and the removal was
not authorized under R.C. § 4513.60, 4513.601, 4513.61, or 4513.66, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, prior to removing the motor
vehicle, the towing service shall provide a written estimate of the price for
the removal to the operator of the motor vehicle, if requested.
   (E)   The towing service shall ensure that any estimate provided under
division (D) of this section includes the fees, services to be rendered, and
destination of the vehicle.
   (F)   If a towing service fails to provide a written estimate as required by
this section, the towing service shall not charge fees for the towing and
storage of the motor vehicle that exceed 25% of any applicable fees established
by the public utilities commission in rules adopted under R.C. § 4921.25(B)(4)
or, if the vehicle was towed within a municipal corporation that has
established vehicle removal and storage fees, 25% of the fees established by
the municipal corporation.
   (G)   Any storage facility that accepts towed vehicles shall conspicuously
post a notice at the entrance to the storage facility that states the
limitation on fees established under division (F) of this section.
(R.C. § 4513.68)
§ 70.13 MUNICIPAL MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSE TAX.
   (A)   There is hereby levied an annual license tax upon the operation of
motor vehicles on the public roads or highways within the corporate limits of
the village pursuant to R.C. § 4504.172, for the purposes of paying the costs
and expenses of enforcing and administering the tax provided for in this
section; and to provide additional revenue for the purposes set forth in R.C. §
4504.06; and to supplement revenue already available for such purposes.
   (B)   (1)   Such tax shall be at the rate of $5 per motor vehicle on each
and every motor vehicle the District of Registration of which, as defined in
R.C. § 4503.10 is in the village.
      (2)   As used in this section, the term MOTOR VEHICLE means any and all
vehicles included within the definition of motor vehicle in R.C. §§ 4501.01 and
4505.01.
      (3)   The tax imposed by this section shall apply to and be in effect for
the registration year commencing January 1, 1988 and shall continue in effect
and application during each registration year thereafter.
      (4)   The tax imposed by this section shall be paid to the Registrar of
Motor Vehicles of the state or to a Deputy Registrar at the time application
for registration of a motor vehicle is made as provided in R.C. § 4503.10.
      (5)   All monies derived from the tax hereinbefore levied shall be used
by the village for the purposes specified in this section.
(Ord. 23-87, passed - -1987)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.30 OBEYING TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   No pedestrian or driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
instructions of any traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code, unless at the time otherwise directed by a
police officer.
      (2)   No provision of this traffic code for which signs are required
shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the
alleged violation, an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently
legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular
section of this traffic code does not state that signs are required, that
section shall be effective even though no signs are erected or in place.
(R.C. § 4511.12(A))
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, any operator
of a commercial motor vehicle, upon approaching a scale location established
for the purpose of determining the weight of the vehicle and its load, shall
comply with any traffic-control device or the order of a peace officer
directing the vehicle to proceed to be weighed or otherwise inspected.
      (2)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle, upon bypassing a scale
location in accordance with division (C) of this section, shall comply with an
order of a peace officer to stop the vehicle to verify the use and operation of
an electronic clearance device.
   (C)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle that is equipped with an
electronic clearance device authorized by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol under R.C. § 4549.081 may bypass a scale location, regardless of
the instruction of a traffic-control device to enter the scale facility, if
either of the following apply:
      (1)   The in-cab transponder displays a green light or other affirmative
visual signal and also sounds an affirmative audible signal;
      (2)   Any other criterion established by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol is met.
   (D)   Any peace officer may order the operator of a commercial motor vehicle
that bypasses a scale location to stop the vehicle to verify the use and
operation of an electronic clearance device.
   (E)   As used in this section, COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE means any
combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating or an actual gross
vehicle weight of more than 10,000 pounds if the vehicle is used in interstate
or intrastate commerce to transport property and also means any vehicle that is
transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is required pursuant to
49 C.F.R. parts 100 through 180.
(R.C. § 4511.121(A) - (C), (E))
   (F)   No person shall use an electronic clearance device if the device or
its use is not in compliance with rules of the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol.
(R.C. § 4549.081(B))
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. If
the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting activity
is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the offender is
subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.12(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B) of this
section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (B)
of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender commits the offense while
distracted and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the
commission of the offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine
established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.121(D))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.081(C))
Statutory reference:
   Placing traffic-control devices on state highways, permission required, see
R.C. § 4511.10
   Traffic-control devices to conform to the state manual and specifications,
see R.C. § 4511.11
   Uniform system of traffic-control devices, see R.C. § 4511.09
§ 70.31 SIGNAL LIGHTS.
   Highway traffic signal indications for vehicles and pedestrians shall have
the following meanings:
   (A)   Steady green signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal indication
is permitted to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a U-turn
movement except as such movement is modified by a lane-use sign, turn
prohibition sign, lane marking, roadway design, separate turn signal
indication, or other traffic-control device. Such vehicular traffic, including
vehicles turning right or left or making a U-turn movement, shall yield the
right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a U-turn
movement to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching
from the opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the
intersection.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal indication, displayed
alone or in combination with another signal indication, is permitted to
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by such
arrow, or such other movement as is permitted by other indications displayed at
the same time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left
or making a U-turn movement, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the
following:
         (a)   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
         (b)   Other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   (a)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication,
as provided in R.C. § 4511.14, pedestrians facing a circular green signal
indication are permitted to proceed across the roadway within any marked or
unmarked associated crosswalk. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of- way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection or so close as to create an immediate
hazard at the time that the green signal indication is first displayed.
         (b)   Pedestrians facing a green arrow signal indication, unless
otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or other traffic-control
device, shall not cross the roadway.
   (B)   Steady yellow signal indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow signal indication
is thereby warned that the related green movement or the related flashing arrow
movement is being terminated or that a steady red signal indication will be
exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter the
intersection. The provisions governing vehicular operation under the movement
being terminated shall continue to apply while the steady circular yellow
signal indication is displayed.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow arrow signal indication is
thereby warned that the related green arrow movement or the related flashing
arrow movement is being terminated. The provisions governing vehicular
operation under the movement being terminated shall continue to apply while the
steady yellow arrow signal indication is displayed.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal
indication, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic- control device, shall not start to
cross the roadway.
   (C)   Steady red signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular red signal
indication, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted
by another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, traffic shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before
entering the intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication
to proceed is displayed except as provided in divisions (C)(1), (C)(2), and (C)
(3) of this section.
         (b)   Except when a traffic-control device is in place prohibiting a
turn on red or a steady red arrow signal indication is displayed, vehicular
traffic facing a steady circular red signal indication is permitted, after
stopping, to enter the intersection to turn right, or to turn left from a one-
way street into a one-way street. The right to proceed with the turn shall be
subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a stop
sign.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow signal indication
shall not enter the intersection to make the movement indicated by the arrow
and, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted by
another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before entering the
intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication or other
traffic-control device permitting the movement indicated by such red arrow is
displayed.
         (b)   When a traffic-control device is in place permitting a turn on a
steady red arrow signal indication, vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow
indication is permitted, after stopping, to enter the intersection to turn
right, or to turn left from a one-way street into a one-way street. The right
to proceed with the turn shall be limited to the direction indicated by the
arrow and shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a
stop at a stop sign.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic-control device, pedestrians facing
a steady circular red or steady red arrow signal indication shall not enter the
roadway.
      (4)   Local authorities by ordinance, or the Director of Transportation
on state highways, may prohibit a right or a left turn against a steady red
signal at any intersection, which shall be effective when signs giving notice
thereof are posted at the intersection.
   (D)   Flashing green signal indication. A flashing green signal indication
has no meaning and shall not be used.
   (E)   Flashing yellow signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing
a flashing circular yellow signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter
the intersection to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a U-
turn movement except as such movement is modified by lane-use signs, turn
prohibition signs, lane markings, roadway design, separate turn signal
indications, or other traffic- control devices. Such vehicular traffic,
including vehicles turning right or left or making a U-turn movement, shall
yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a U-turn
to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing
a flashing yellow arrow signal indication, displayed alone or in combination
with another signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow, or other such
movement as is permitted by other signal indications displayed at the same
time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left or
making a U-turn, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a U-turn
to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing any flashing yellow signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic-control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of- way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing yellow signal indication is first displayed.
      (4)   When a flashing circular yellow signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic-control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory or warning requirements of the other traffic-
control device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently
applicable.
   (F)   Flashing red signal indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing a
flashing circular red signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line; but if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. The right to proceed
shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a
stop sign.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing any flashing red signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic-control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of- way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing red signal indication is first displayed.
      (3)   When a flashing circular red signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic-control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory requirements of the other traffic-control
device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently applicable.
Use of this signal indication shall be limited to supplementing stop, do not
enter, or wrong way signs, and to applications where compliance with the
supplemented traffic-control device requires a stop at a designated point.
   (G)   In the event an official traffic-control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their nature
can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of
any such sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
   (H)   This section does not apply at railroad grade- crossings. Conduct of
drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade crossings shall be governed by
R.C. §§ 4511.61 and 4511.62.
(R.C. § 4511.13)
§ 70.32 SIGNALS OVER REVERSIBLE LANES.
   The meanings of lane-use control signal indications are as follows:
   (A)   A steady downward green arrow. A road user is permitted to drive in
the lane over which the arrow signal indication is located.
   (B)   A steady yellow “X”. A road user is to prepare to vacate the lane over
which the signal indication is located because a lane control change is being
made to a steady red “X” signal indication.
   (C)   A steady white two-way left-turn arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, but not
for through travel, with the understanding that common use of the lane by
oncoming road users for left turns also is permitted.
   (D)   A steady white one-way left-turn arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, without
opposing turns in the same lane, but not for through travel.
   (E)   A steady red “X”. A road user is not permitted to use the lane over
which the signal indication is located and that this signal indication shall
modify accordingly the meaning of other traffic controls present.
(R.C. § 4511.131)
§ 70.33 AMBIGUOUS OR NON-WORKING TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle who approaches an intersection where traffic
is controlled by traffic- control signals shall do all of the following if the
signal facing the driver exhibits no colored lights or colored lighted arrows,
exhibits a combination of such lights or arrows that fails to clearly indicate
the assignment of right-of-way, or, if the vehicle is a bicycle or electric
bicycle, the signals are otherwise malfunctioning due to the failure of a
vehicle detector to detect the presence of the bicycle or electric bicycle:
      (1)   Stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or, if none, stop
before entering the intersection;
      (2)   Yield the right-of-way to all vehicles in the intersection or
approaching on an intersecting road, if the vehicles will constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways;
      (3)   Exercise ordinary care while proceeding through the intersection.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.132)
§ 70.34 PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words “walk” or
“don’t walk”, or the symbol of a walking person or an upraised palm are in
place, these signals shall indicate the following instructions:
   (A)   A steady walking person signal indication, which symbolizes “walk”,
means that a pedestrian facing the signal indication is permitted to start to
cross the roadway in the direction of the signal indication, possibly in
conflict with turning vehicles. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the walking person
signal indication is first shown.
   (B)   A flashing upraised hand signal indication, which symbolizes “don’t
walk”, means that a pedestrian shall not start to cross the roadway in the
direction of the signal indication, but that any pedestrian who has already
started to cross on a steady walking person signal indication shall proceed to
the far side of the traveled way of the street or highway, unless otherwise
directed by a traffic-control device to proceed only to the median of a divided
highway or only to some other island or pedestrian refuge area.
   (C)   A steady upraised hand signal indication means that a pedestrian shall
not enter the roadway in the direction of the signal indication.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the continued
use of pedestrian control signals utilizing the word “wait” if those signals
were installed prior to March 28, 1985.
   (E)   A flashing walking person signal indication has no meaning and shall
not be used.
(R.C. § 4511.14)
§ 70.35 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS AND SIGNALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of
any highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to
be, is an imitation of, or resembles a traffic-control device or railroad sign
or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or hides from
view or interferes with the effectiveness of any traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal, and no person shall place or maintain, nor shall any
public authority permit, upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing
thereon any commercial advertising. This section does not prohibit either the
erection upon private property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful
directional information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for traffic-
control devices, or the erection upon private property of traffic-control
devices by the owner of real property in accordance with R.C. §§ 4511.211 and
4511.432.
      (2)   Every prohibited sign, signal, marking, or device is a public
nuisance, and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway may remove the
same or cause it to be removed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.16)
§ 70.36 ALTERATION, DEFACEMENT, OR REMOVAL PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, without lawful authority, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy, or otherwise improperly
tamper with any traffic-control device, any railroad sign or signal, or any
inscription, shield, or insignia on the device, sign, or signal, or any part of
the device, sign, or signal;
      (2)   Knowingly drive upon or over any freshly applied pavement marking
material on the surface of a roadway while the marking material is in an
undried condition, and is marked by flags, markers, signs, or other devices
intended to protect it;
      (3)   Knowingly move, damage, destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper
with a manhole cover.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree. If a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of
this section causes serious physical harm to property that is owned, leased, or
controlled by a state or local authority, the offender is guilty of a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within
one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.17)
§ 70.37 UNAUTHORIZED POSSESSION OR SALE OF DEVICES.
   (A)   As used in this section, TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE means any sign,
traffic-control signal or other device conforming to and placed or erected in
accordance with the manual adopted under R.C. § 4511.09 by authority of a
public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic, including signs denoting the names of streets and
highways, but does not mean any pavement marking.
   (B)   No individual shall buy or otherwise possess, or sell, a traffic-
control device, except when one of the following applies:
      (1)   In the course of the individual’s employment by the state or a
local authority for the express or implied purpose of manufacturing, providing,
erecting, moving or removing such a traffic-control device;
      (2)   In the course of the individual’s employment by any manufacturer of
traffic-control devices other than a state or local authority;
      (3)   For the purpose of demonstrating the design and function of a
traffic-control device to state or local officials;
      (4)   When the traffic-control device has been purchased from the state
or a local authority at a sale of property that is no longer needed or is unfit
for use; or
      (5)   When the traffic-control device has been properly purchased from a
manufacturer for use on private property and the person possessing the device
has a sales receipt for the device or other acknowledgment of sale issued by
the manufacturer.
   (C)   This section does not preclude, and shall not be construed as
precluding, prosecution for theft in violation of R.C. § 2913.02, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or for receiving stolen property
in violation of R.C. § 2913.51, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.18)
§ 70.38 SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICES; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall possess a portable signal preemption device.
      (2)   No person shall use a portable signal preemption device to affect
the operation of a traffic- control device.
   (B)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the following
persons and division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to any of the
following persons when responding to an emergency call:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 109.71(A)(1), (A)(12), (A)
(14), or (A)(19);
      (2)   A state highway patrol officer;
      (3)   A person while occupying a public safety vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01(E)(1), (E)(3), or (E)(4).
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, PORTABLE SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICE means a
device that, if activated by a person, is capable of changing a traffic-control
signal to green out of sequence.
(R.C. § 4511.031)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this traffic code for which no
penalty otherwise is provided in the section violated is guilty of one of the
following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this
section, a minor misdemeanor;
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
      (3)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more predicate motor vehicle or
traffic offenses, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.99)
   (B)   Violations committed while distracted.
      (1)   As used in this section and each section referenced in division (B)
(2) of this section, all of the following apply:
         (a)   “Distracted” means doing either of the following while operating
a vehicle:
            1.   Using a handheld electronic wireless communications device, as
defined in R.C. § 4511.204, except when utilizing any of the following:
               a.   The device’s speakerphone function;
               b.   A wireless technology standard for exchanging data over
short distances;
               c.   A “voice-operated or hands-free” device that allows the
person to use the electronic wireless communications device without the use of
either hand except to activate, deactivate, or initiate a feature or function;
               d.   Any device that is physically or electronically integrated
into the motor vehicle.
            2.   Engaging in any activity that is not necessary to the
operation of a vehicle and impairs, or reasonably would be expected to impair,
the ability of the operator to drive the vehicle safely.
         (b)   “Distracted” does not include operating a motor vehicle while
wearing an earphone or earplug over or in both ears at the same time. A person
who so wears earphones or earplugs may be charged with a violation of R.C. §
4511.84, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
         (c)   “Distracted” does not include conducting any activity while
operating a utility service vehicle or a vehicle for or on behalf of a utility,
provided that the driver of the vehicle is acting in response to an emergency,
power outage, or a circumstance affecting the health or safety of individuals.
As used in this division (B)(1)(c):
            UTILITY means an entity specified in R.C. § 4905.03(A), (C), (D),
(E), or (G).
            UTILITY SERVICE VEHICLE means a vehicle owned or operated by a
utility.
      (2)   If an offender violates R.C. § 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12,
4511.121, 4511.132, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25,
4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33,
4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41,
4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.451, 4511.46, 4511.47,
4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.64,
4511.71, 4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, or 4511.73, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
violation, the offender is subject to the applicable penalty for the violation
and, notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28, is subject to an additional fine of not
more than $100 as follows:
         (a)   1.   Subject to Traffic Rule 13, if a law enforcement officer
issues an offender a ticket, citation, or summons for a violation of any of the
aforementioned sections of the Ohio Revised Code, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that indicates that the offender was distracted
while committing the violation and that the distracting activity was a
contributing factor to the commission of the violation, the offender may enter
a written plea of guilty and waive the offender’s right to contest the ticket,
citation, or summons in a trial provided that the offender pays the total
amount of the fine established for the violation and pays the additional fine
of $100.
            2.   In lieu of payment of the additional fine of $100, the
offender instead may elect to attend a distracted driving safety course, the
duration and contents of which shall be established by the Ohio Director of
Public Safety. If the offender attends and successfully completes the course,
the offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender successfully
completed the course. The offender shall be required to pay the total amount of
the fine established for the violation, but shall not be required to pay the
additional fine of $100, so long as the offender submits to the court both the
offender’s payment in full and such written evidence.
         (b)   1.   If the offender appears in person to contest the ticket,
citation, or summons in a trial and the offender pleads guilty to or is
convicted of the violation, the court, in addition to all other penalties
provided by law, may impose the applicable penalty for the violation and may
impose the additional fine of not more than $100.
            2.   If the court imposes upon the offender the applicable penalty
for the violation and an additional fine of not more than $100, the court shall
inform the offender that, in lieu of payment of the additional fine of not more
than $100, the offender instead may elect to attend the distracted driving
safety course described in division (B)(2)(a) of this section. If the offender
elects the course option and attends and successfully completes the course, the
offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender successfully
completed the course. The offender shall be required to pay the total amount of
the fine established for the violation, but shall not be required to pay the
additional fine of not more than $100, so long as the offender submits to the
court the offender’s payment and such written evidence.
(R.C. § 4511.991)
   (C)   Whoever is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor shall be sentenced in accordance with §
130.99.
Cross-reference:
   Imposing sentence for misdemeanor, see §
130.18
   Multiple sentences, see §
130.19
Statutory reference:
   Reimbursement for costs of confinement, see R.C. §§ 2929.36 et seq.
CHAPTER 71: LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
Motor Vehicle Licensing
   
71.01   Display of license plates or validation stickers; registration
   
71.02   Improper use of noncommercial motor vehicle
   
71.03   Operating motor vehicle ordered immobilized; forfeiture
   
71.04   Operation or sale without certificate of title
   
71.05   Display of certificate of registration
   
71.06   Use of unauthorized plates
   
71.07   Operating without dealer or manufacturer license plates
Driver’s Licenses
   
71.20   Prohibited acts
   
71.21   Permitting minor to operate vehicle prohibited; temporary instruction
permit; probationary license
   
71.22   License required as driver or commercial driver on public or private
property; nonresident exemption
   
71.23   Employment of a minor to operate a taxicab prohibited
   
71.24   Restriction against owner lending vehicle for use of another
   
71.25   Suspension of driver’s licenses; license suspended by court of record
   
71.26   Display of license
   
71.27   Prohibition against false statements
   
71.28   Driving under suspension or in violation of license restriction
   
71.29   Operating motor vehicle or motorcycle without valid license
   
71.30   Driving under OVI suspension
   
71.31   Driving under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation;
driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension
   
71.32   Failure to reinstate license
Commercial Driver’s Licenses
   
71.45   Definitions
   
71.46   Use of actual gross weight in lieu of rating
   
71.47   Prohibited acts
   
71.48   Prerequisites to operation of commercial motor vehicle
   
71.49   Physical qualification to operate commercial motor vehicles
   
71.50   Criminal offenses
   
71.51   Application of federal regulations
   
71.52   Employment of drivers of commercial vehicles
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Commercial driver’s licenses, see R.C. Chapter 4506
   Driver’s licenses, see R.C. Chapter 4507
   Motor vehicle licensing, see R.C. Chapter 4504
   Municipal motor vehicle license tax, see R.C. § 4504.06
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Proof of financial responsibility required; civil penalties; peace officers
as agents of Registrar of Motor Vehicles; procedures and rules, see R.C. §§
4509.101 et seq.
   Suspension and revocation of driver’s licenses, see R.C. Chapter 4510
   Suspension of driver’s licenses; municipal power to suspend for a period not
to exceed time     permitted or required by state law, see R.C. § 4510.05
MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSING
§ 71.01 DISPLAY OF LICENSE PLATES OR VALIDATION STICKERS; REGISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   No person who is the owner or operator of a motor vehicle shall
fail to display in plain view on the rear of the motor vehicle a license plate
that displays the distinctive number and registration mark assigned to the
motor vehicle by the Ohio Director of Public Safety, including any county
identification sticker and any validation sticker when required by and issued
under R.C. §§ 4503.19 and 4503.191. However, a commercial tractor shall display
the license plate on the front of the commercial tractor.
      (2)   The license plate shall be securely fastened so as not to swing,
and shall not be covered by any material that obstructs its visibility.
      (3)   No person to whom a temporary motor vehicle license registration
has been issued for the use of a motor vehicle under R.C. § 4503.182, and no
operator of that motor vehicle, shall fail to display the temporary motor
vehicle license registration in plain view from the rear of the vehicle either
in the rear window or on an external rear surface of the motor vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall cover a temporary motor vehicle license
registration by any material that obstructs its visibility.
(R.C. § 4503.21(A))
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by R.C. §§ 4503.103, 4503.173, 4503.41,
4503.43, and 4503.46, no person who is the owner or chauffeur of a motor
vehicle operated or driven upon the public roads or highways shall fail to file
annually the application for registration or to pay the tax therefor.
(R.C. § 4503.11(A))
   (C)    (1)   Within 30 days of becoming a resident of this state, any person
who owns a motor vehicle operated or driven upon the public roads or highways
shall register the vehicle in this state. If such a person fails to register a
vehicle owned by the person, the person shall not operate any motor vehicle in
this state under a license issued by another state.
      (2)   For purposes of division (C)(1) of this section, RESIDENT means any
person to whom any of the following applies:
         (a)   The person maintains their principal residence in this state and
does not reside in this state as a result of the person’s active service in the
United States armed forces.
         (b)   The person is determined by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles to
be a resident in accordance with standards adopted by the Registrar under R.C.
§ 4507.01.
(R.C. § 4503.111(A), (C))
   (D)   Upon the transfer of ownership of a motor vehicle, the registration of
the motor vehicle expires, and the original owner immediately shall remove the
license plates from the motor vehicle, except as otherwise provided in R.C. §
4503.12.
(R.C. § 4503.12(A))
   (E)   No person shall operate or drive upon the highways of this
municipality a motor vehicle acquired from a former owner who has registered
the motor vehicle, while the motor vehicle displays the distinctive number or
identification mark assigned to it upon its original registration.
(R.C. § 4549.11(A))
   (F)   No person who is the owner of a motor vehicle and a resident of this
state shall operate or drive the motor vehicle upon the highways of this
municipality while it displays a distinctive number or identification mark
issued by or under the authority of another state, without complying with the
laws of this state relating to the registration and identification of motor
vehicles.
(R.C. § 4549.12(A))
   (G)   (1)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offenses established under division (A) of this section are
strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of
these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply
that any other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability,
is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4503.21(B), (C))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4503.11(D))
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offense established under division (G)(3)(a) of this section
is a strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state
for purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
(R.C. § 4503.111(B))
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4503.12(D))
      (5)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of
operation of a motor vehicle bearing license plates or an identification mark
issued to another, a minor misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.11(B))
      (6)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of illegal
operation by a resident of this state of a motor vehicle bearing the
distinctive number or identification mark issued by a foreign jurisdiction, a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.12(B))
§ 71.02 IMPROPER USE OF NONCOMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall use a motor vehicle registered as a noncommercial
motor vehicle for other than the purposes set forth in R.C. § 4501.01.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4503.05)
§ 71.03 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE ORDERED IMMOBILIZED; FORFEITURE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or permit the operation of a
motor vehicle upon any public or private property used by the public for
vehicular travel or parking knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that
the motor vehicle has been ordered immobilized pursuant to an immobilization
order issued under R.C. § 4503.233.
   (B)   A motor vehicle that is operated by a person during a violation of
division (A) of this section shall be criminally forfeited to the state in
accordance with the procedures contained in R.C. § 4503.234.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 4503.236)
§ 71.04 OPERATION OR SALE WITHOUT CERTIFICATE OF TITLE.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate in this municipality a motor vehicle for which a
certificate of title is required without having that certificate in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 4505 or, if a physical certificate of title has not been
issued for a motor vehicle, operate the motor vehicle in this state knowing
that the ownership information relating to the vehicle has not been entered
into the automated title processing system by a Clerk of a Court of Common
Pleas;
      (2)   Display or display for sale or sell as a dealer or acting on behalf
of a dealer, a motor vehicle without having obtained a manufacturer’s or
importer’s certificate, a certificate of title, or an assignment of a
certificate of title for it as provided in R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title or any certificate of
registration or license plates upon cancellation of the same by the Registrar
of Motor Vehicles and notice of the cancellation as prescribed in R.C. Chapter
4505;
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a Clerk of a Court of
Common Pleas as provided in R.C. Chapter 4505 in case of the destruction or
dismantling or change of a motor vehicle in such respect that it is not the
motor vehicle described in the certificate of title;
      (5)   Violate any rules adopted pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (6)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapters 4505 and 4517, sell
at wholesale a motor vehicle ownership of which is not evidenced by an Ohio
certificate of title, or the current certificate of title issued for the motor
vehicle, or the manufacturer’s certificate of origin, and all title assignments
that evidence the seller’s ownership of the motor vehicle, and an odometer
disclosure statement that complies with R.C. § 4505.06 and subchapter IV of the
“Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act”, 86 Stat. 961 (1972), 49
U.S.C. § 32705;
      (7)   Operate in this state a motor vehicle knowing that the certificate
of title to the vehicle or ownership of the vehicle as otherwise reflected in
the automated title processing system has been canceled.
   (B)   This section does not apply to persons engaged in the business of
warehousing or transporting motor vehicles for the purpose of salvage
disposition.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $200,
imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4505.18)
§ 71.05 DISPLAY OF CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   The operator of a “commercial car”, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, when the commercial car is required to be registered under state law,
shall, when operating the commercial car, trailer or semitrailer on the
streets, roads, or highways of this municipality display inside or on the
vehicle the certificate of registration for the commercial car, trailer or
semitrailer provided for in R.C. § 4503.19, or shall carry the certificate on
the operator’s person and display it upon the demand of any peace officer.
      (2)   Every person operating a commercial car, trailer or semitrailer
required to be registered under state law shall permit the inspection of the
certificate of registration upon demand of any peace officer.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
commercial car certificate of registration violation, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.18)
§ 71.06 USE OF UNAUTHORIZED PLATES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or drive a motor vehicle upon the public roads
and highways in this municipality if it displays a license plate or a
distinctive number or identification mark that meets any of the following
criteria:
      (1)   It is fictitious;
      (2)   It is a counterfeit or an unlawfully made copy of any distinctive
number or identification mark;
      (3)   It belongs to another motor vehicle, provided that this section
does not apply to a motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads and
highways in this municipality when the motor vehicle displays license plates
that originally were issued for a motor vehicle that previously was owned by
the same person who owns the motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads
and highways in this municipality during the 30-day period described in R.C. §
4503.12(A)(4).
   (B)   A person who fails to comply with the transfer of registration
provisions of R.C. § 4503.12 and is charged with a violation of that section
shall not be charged with a violation of this section.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3) of this section is
guilty of operating a motor vehicle bearing an invalid license plate or
identification mark, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and
a misdemeanor of the third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.08)
§ 71.07 OPERATING WITHOUT DEALER OR MANUFACTURER LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated upon a public road or
highway a motor vehicle of a manufacturer or dealer unless the vehicle carries
and displays a placard, except as provided in R.C. § 4503.21, issued by the
Director of Public Safety that displays the registration number of its
manufacturer or dealer.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of illegal
operation of a manufacturer’s or dealer’s motor vehicle, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.10)
DRIVER’S LICENSES
§ 71.20 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Display or cause or permit to be displayed, or possess any
identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit
knowing the same to be fictitious, or to have been canceled, suspended, or
altered;
      (2)   Lend to a person not entitled thereto, or knowingly permit a person
not entitled thereto to use any identification card, driver’s or commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit or commercial driver’s license
temporary instruction permit issued to the person so lending or permitting the
use thereof;
      (3)   Display, or represent as one’s own, any identification card,
driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or
commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit not issued to the
person so displaying the same;
      (4)   Fail to surrender to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, upon the
Registrar’s demand, any identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit that has been suspended or canceled;
      (5)   In any application for an identification card, driver's or
commercial driver's license, temporary instruction permit, or commercial
driver's license temporary instruction permit or any renewal, reprint, or
duplicate thereof, knowingly conceal a material fact or present any physician's
statement required under R.C. § 4507.08 or 4507.081 when knowing the same to be
false or fictitious.
   (B)   Whoever violates any division of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.30)
Statutory reference:
   Use of license to violate liquor laws; suspension; procedures, see R.C. §
4510.33
§ 71.21 PERMITTING MINOR TO OPERATE VEHICLE PROHIBITED; TEMPORARY INSTRUCTION
PERMIT; PROBATIONARY LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall cause or knowingly permit any minor to drive a motor
vehicle upon a highway as an operator, unless the minor has first obtained a
license or permit to drive a motor vehicle under R.C. Chapter 4507.
(R.C. § 4507.31(A))
   (B)   (1)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under R.C. §
4507.05(A) shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking
in violation of the conditions established under R.C. § 4507.05(A).
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this section, no
holder of a temporary instruction permit that is issued under R.C. § 4507.05(A)
and that is issued on or after July 1, 1998, and who has not attained the age
of 18 years, shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking
between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m.
         (b)   The holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under R.C. §
4507.05(A) on or after July 1, 1998, who has not attained the age of 18 years,
may operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or private property
used by the public for purposed of vehicular travel or parking between the
hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. if, at the time of such operation, the holder
is accompanied by the holder’s parent, guardian, or custodian, and the parent,
guardian, or custodian holds a current valid driver’s or commercial driver’s
license issued by this state, is actually occupying a seat beside the permit
holder, and does not have a prohibited concentration of alcohol in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine as provided in R.C. § 4511.19
(A).
(R.C. § 4507.05(F))
   (C)   (1)   (a)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held
the license for less than 12 months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a
highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. unless
the holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian.
         (b)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held the
license for 12 months or longer shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. unless the
holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian.
      (2)   (a)   Subject to division (E)(1) of this section, division (C)(1)
(a) of this section does not apply to the holder of a probationary driver’s
license who is doing either of the following:
            1.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of midnight and 6:
00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession
written documentation from the holder’s employer.
            2.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the
school the holder attends between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., provided
that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession written documentation
from an appropriate official of the school;
            3.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s
immediate possession written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
         (b)   Division (C)(1)(b) of this section does not apply to the holder
of a probationary driver’s license who is doing either of the following:
            1.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and
5:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession
written documentation from the holder’s employer.
            2.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the
school the holder attends between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m.,
provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession written
documentation from an appropriate official of the school;
            3.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s
immediate possession written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
      (3)   An employer, school official, or official affiliated with a
religious event is not liable in damages in a civil action for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that allegedly arises from, or is related
to, the fact that the employer, school official, or official affiliated with a
religious event provided the holder of a probationary driver’s license with the
written documentation described in division (C)(2) of this section. The
Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall make available at no cost a form to serve as
the written documentation described in division (C)(2) of this section, and
employers, school officials, officials affiliated with religious events, and
holders of probationary driver’s licenses may utilize that form or may choose
to utilize any other written documentation to meet the requirements of that
division.
      (4)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held the
license for less than 12 months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking with more than one person who is not a family member
occupying the vehicle unless the probationary license holder is accompanied by
the probationary license holder’s parent, guardian, or custodian.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a violation of division (C)(1)(a) or
(C)(1)(b) of this section if, at the time of the violation, an emergency
existed that required the holder of the probationary driver’s license to
operate a motor vehicle in violation of division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this
section or the holder was an emancipated minor.
   (E)   (1)   If a person is issued a probationary driver’s license prior to
attaining the age of 17 years and the person pleads guilty to, is convicted of,
or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a moving violation
during the six-month period commencing on the date on which the person is
issued the probationary driver’s license, the court with jurisdiction over the
violation may order that the holder must be accompanied by the holder’s parent
or guardian whenever the holder is operating a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking for a period not to exceed six months or the date the holder
attains the age of 17 years, whichever occurs first.
      (2)   Any person who is subject to the operating restrictions established
under division (E)(1) of this section as a result of a first moving violation
may petition the court for driving privileges without being accompanied by the
holder’s parent or guardian during the period of time determined by the court
under that division. In granting the driving privileges, the court shall
specify the purposes of the privileges and shall issue the person appropriate
forms setting forth the privileges granted. If a person is convicted of, pleads
guilty to, or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a second or
subsequent moving violation, the court with jurisdiction over the violation may
terminate any driving privileges previously granted under this division.
      (3)   No person shall violate any operating restriction imposed under
division (E)(1) or (E)(2) of this section.
   (F)   No holder of a probationary license shall operate a motor vehicle upon
a highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking unless the total number of occupants of the vehicle
does not exceed the total number of occupant restraining devices originally
installed in the motor vehicle by its manufacturer, and each occupant of the
vehicle is wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted
occupant restraining device.
   (G)   A restricted license may be issued to a person who is 14 or 15 years
of age under proof of hardship satisfactory to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether each occupant of the motor vehicle is wearing all of the
available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device as
required by division (F) of this section, or for the sole purpose of issuing a
ticket, citation or summons if that requirement has been or is being violated,
or for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a
violation of that requirement.
   (I)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this
section has been or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a
ticket, citation or summons for such a violation or for causing the arrest or
commencing a prosecution of a person for such a violation.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      FAMILY MEMBER. A family member of a probationary license holder includes
any of the following:
         (a)   A spouse;
         (b)   A child or stepchild;
         (c)   A parent, stepparent, grandparent, or parent-in-law;
         (d)   An aunt or uncle;
         (e)   A sibling, whether of the whole or half blood or by adoption, a
brother-in-law, or a sister-in-law;
         (f)   A son or daughter of the probationary license holder’s
stepparent if the stepparent has not adopted the probationary license holder;
         (g)   An eligible adult, as defined in R.C. § 4507.05.
      MOVING VIOLATION. Means any violation of any statute or ordinance that
regulates the operation of vehicles on the highways or streets. The term does
not include a violation of R.C. § 4513.263 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a violation of any statute or ordinance regulating
pedestrians or the parking of vehicles, vehicle size or load limitations,
vehicle fitness requirements, or vehicle registration.
      OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4513.263.
(R.C. § 4507.071(B) - (I))
   (K)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.31(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates divisions (B), (C)(1), (C)(4), (E)(3), or (F) of
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4507.05(I), 4507.071(J))
§ 71.22 LICENSE REQUIRED AS DRIVER OR COMMERCIAL DRIVER ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE
PROPERTY; NONRESIDENT EXEMPTION.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   No person shall permit the operation of a motor vehicle
upon any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking, knowing the operator does not have a valid
driver's license issued to the operator by the Registrar of Motor Vehicle or a
deputy registrar under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid commercial driver's license
issued under R.C. Chapter 4506. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
whoever violates this division is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
         (b)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   No person shall receive a driver's license, or a motorcycle
operator's endorsement of a driver's or commercial driver's license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card unless and until the person
surrenders to the Registrar or a deputy registrar all valid licenses, temporary
instruction permits, and identification cards issued to the person by another
jurisdiction recognized by this state.
      (3)   The Registrar shall report the cancellation of a license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card to the issuing authority, together
with information that the license, temporary instruction permit, or
identification card is now issued in this state. The Registrar or a deputy
registrar shall destroy any such license, temporary instruction permit, or
identification card that is not returned to the issuing authority.
      (4)   No person shall possess more than one valid license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card at any time.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving, or propelling a road roller or road machinery upon a street or highway.
      (2)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving, or propelling any agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a
street or highway at a speed of 25 mph or less.
      (3)   No person shall drive, operate, draw, move, or propel any
agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a street or highway at a
speed greater than 25 mph unless the person has a current, valid driver’s or
commercial driver’s license.
      (4)   No person having a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator’s endorsement to operate a
motorcycle having three wheels with a motor of not more than 50 cubic
centimeters piston displacement.
      (5)   No person having a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator’s endorsement to operate an
autocycle or a cab-enclosed motorcycle.
      (6)   Every person on active duty in the military or naval forces of the
United States, when furnished with a driver’s permit and when operating an
official motor vehicle in connection with such duty, is exempt from the license
requirements of R.C. Chapters 4506 and 4507. Every person on active duty in the
military or naval forces of the United States or in service with the peace
corps, volunteers in service to America, or the foreign service of the United
States, is exempt from the license requirements of such sections for the period
of the person’s active duty or service and for six months thereafter, provided
such person was a licensee under such sections at the time the person commenced
the person’s active duty or service. This section does not prevent such a
person or the person’s spouse or dependent from making an application, as
provided in R.C. § 4507.10(C), for the renewal of a driver’s license or
motorcycle operator’s endorsement or as provided in R.C. § 4506.14 for the
renewal of a commercial driver’s license during the period of the person’s
active duty or service.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.03)
   (C)   Nonresidents, permitted to drive upon the highways of their own state,
may operate any motor vehicle upon any highway in this state without
examination or license under R.C. §§ 4507.01 through 4507.39, inclusive, upon
condition that such nonresident may be required at any time or place to prove
lawful possession or their right to operate such motor vehicle, and to
establish proper identity.
(R.C. § 4507.04)
   (D)   Surrender of driver’s license from another state.
      (1)   Any person who becomes a resident of this state, within 30 days of
becoming a resident, shall surrender any driver's license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card issued by another state to the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a deputy registrar. If such a person intends to
operate a motor vehicle upon the public roads or highways, the person shall
apply for a temporary instruction permit or driver's license in this state. If
the person fails to apply for a driver's license or temporary instruction
permit or within 30 days of becoming a resident, the person shall not operate
any motor vehicle in this state under a license or permit issued by another
state.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (D)(1) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offense established under division (D)(2)(a) of this section
is a strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state
for purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
      (3)   For purposes of division (D)(1) of this section, “resident” means
any person to whom any of the following applies:
         (a)   The person maintains their principal residence in this state and
does not reside in this state as a result of the person’s active service in the
United States armed forces.
         (b)   The person is determined by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles to
be a resident in accordance with standards adopted by the Registrar under R.C.
§ 4507.01.
(R.C. § 4507.213)
§ 71.23 EMPLOYMENT OF A MINOR TO OPERATE A TAXICAB PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the definition of “chauffeur” in R.C. § 4501.01, no
person shall employ any minor for the purpose of operating a taxicab.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4507.321)
§ 71.24 RESTRICTION AGAINST OWNER LENDING VEHICLE FOR USE OF ANOTHER.
   (A)   No person shall permit a motor vehicle owned by the person or under
the person’s control to be driven by another if any of the following apply:
      (1)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person does not have a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or valid nonresident driving privileges;
      (2)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privileges have been suspended or canceled under R.C. Chapter 4510 or
any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (3)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving the motor vehicle would violate any prohibition
contained in R.C. Chapter 4509.
      (4)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving would violate R.C. § 4511.19 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (5)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
vehicle is the subject of an immobilization waiver order issued under R.C. §
4503.235 and the other person is prohibited from operating the vehicle under
that order.
   (B)   Without limiting or precluding the consideration of any other evidence
in determining whether a violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section has occurred, it shall be prima facie evidence that
the offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the operator of the
motor vehicle owned by the offender or under the offender’s control is in a
category described in division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of
this section if any of the following applies:
      (1)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(1), (A)(3), or (A)(5) of this section, the offender and the
operator of the motor vehicle reside in the same household and are related by
consanguinity or affinity.
      (2)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(2) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle reside in the same household, and the offender knows or has reasonable
cause to believe that the operator has been charged with or convicted of any
violation of law or ordinance, or has committed any other act or omission, that
would or could result in the suspension or cancellation of the operator’s
license, permit, or privilege.
      (3)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(4) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle occupied the motor vehicle together at the time of the offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of wrongful entrustment of a
motor vehicle, and shall be punished as provided in divisions (C) to (H) of
this section.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3) of this section is guilty of an
unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the
offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   (a)   If, within three years of a violation of division (A)(1), (A)
(2), or (A)(3) of this section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to
or been convicted of two or more violations of division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)
(3) of this section, R.C. § 4511.203(A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) or (A)(5) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   For any violation of this section, in addition to the penalties
imposed under this Code or R.C. Chapter 2929, the court may impose a class
seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7), and, if
the vehicle involved in the offense is registered in the name of the offender,
the court may order one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) or (C)(3)(c)
of this section, the court may order, for 30 days, the immobilization of the
vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license
plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. §
4503.233.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section, R.C. § 4511.203, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order, for 60 days, the
immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of
that vehicle’s license plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and
enforced under R.C. § 4503.233.
         (c)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section, R.C. § 4511.203, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order the criminal
forfeiture to the state of the vehicle involved in the offense. If issued, the
order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234.
      (4)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order for
criminal forfeiture under division (C)(3)(c) of this section is assigned or
transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in addition to or
independent of any other penalty established by law, the court may fine the
offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the National
Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds from any fine imposed under this
division shall be distributed in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (D)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(C)(3)(a) or (C)(3)(b) of this section, the court shall not release the vehicle
from the immobilization before the termination of the period of immobilization
ordered unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
   (E)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(C)(3)(c) of this section, upon receipt of the order from the court, neither
the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor any deputy registrar shall accept any
application for the registration or transfer of registration of any motor
vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the order. The period of denial
shall be five years after the date the order is issued, unless, during that
five-year period, the court with jurisdiction of the offense that resulted in
the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar of the
termination. If the court terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar,
the Registrar shall take all necessary measures to permit the person to
register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to transfer the
registration of the vehicle.
   (F)   This section does not apply to motor vehicle rental dealers or motor
vehicle leasing dealers, as defined in R.C. §
   (G)   Evidence of a conviction of, plea of guilty to, or adjudication as a
delinquent child for a violation of this section shall not be admissible as
evidence in any civil action that involves the offender or delinquent child who
is the subject of the conviction, plea, or adjudication and that arises from
the wrongful entrustment of a motor vehicle.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, a vehicle is owned by a person if, at
the time of a violation of this section, the vehicle is registered in the
person’s name.
(R.C. § 4511.203)
§ 71.25 SUSPENSION OF DRIVER’S LICENSE; LICENSE SUSPENDED BY COURT OF RECORD.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 4510.07 or in any other
provision of the Ohio Revised Code, whenever an offender is convicted of or
pleads guilty to a violation of any provision of this code that is
substantially equivalent to a provision of the Ohio Revised Code, and a court
is permitted or required to suspend a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit for a violation of that provision, a court, in addition to
any other penalties authorized by law, may suspend the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or non resident operating privileges for
the period of time the court determines appropriate, but the period of
suspension imposed for the violation of the provision of this code shall not
exceed the period of suspension that is permitted or required to be imposed for
the violation of the provision of the Ohio Revised Code to which the provision
of this code is substantially equivalent.
(R.C. § 4510.05)
   (B)   Whenever a person is found guilty under the laws of this state or any
ordinance of any political subdivision of this state, of operating a motor
vehicle in violation of any such law or ordinance relating to reckless
operation, the trial court of any court of record, in addition to or
independent of all other penalties provided by law, may impose a class five
suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(5).
   (C)   Suspension of a commercial driver’s license under this section shall
be concurrent with any period of suspension disqualification under R.C. §
3123.58 or 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from holding a
commercial driver’s license under R.C. § 4506.16 shall be issued a driver’s
license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the commercial
driver’s license was suspended under this section, and no person whose
commercial driver’s license is suspended under this section shall be issued a
driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the suspension.
(R.C. § 4510.15)
§ 71.26 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall display the operator’s driver’s
license, or furnish satisfactory proof that the operator has a driver’s
license, upon demand of any peace officer or of any person damaged or injured
in any collision in which the licensee may be involved. When a demand is
properly made, and the operator has the operator’s driver’s license on or about
the operator’s person, the operator shall not refuse to display the license. A
person’s failure to furnish satisfactory evidence that the person is licensed
under R.C. Chapter 4507 when the person does not have the person’s license on
or about the person’s person shall be prima facie evidence of the person’s not
having obtained a driver’s license.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section,
R.C. § 4507.35, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense
is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.35)
§ 71.27 PROHIBITION AGAINST FALSE STATEMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement to any matter or
thing required by the provisions of this traffic code.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4507.36)
§ 71.28 DRIVING UNDER SUSPENSION OR IN VIOLATION OF LICENSE RESTRICTION.
   (A)   Driving under suspension or in violation of license restriction.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, division (B)
of this section, §
71.31 and in R.C. §§ 4510.111 and 4510.16, no person whose driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended under any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, other than R.C.
Chapter 4509, or under any applicable law in any other jurisdiction in which
the person’s license or permit was issued shall operate any motor vehicle upon
the public roads and highways or upon any public or private property used by
the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking within this municipality
during the period of suspension unless the person is granted limited driving
privileges and is operating the vehicle in accordance with the terms of the
limited driving privileges.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking in this municipality in violation of any restriction of the person’s
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit imposed under R.C. § 4506.10
(D) or 4507.14.
      (3)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under
suspension at the time of the alleged violation of division (A)(1) of this
section or the person operated a motor vehicle in violation of a restriction at
the time of the alleged violation of division (A)(2) of this section. The
person charged with a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section
may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. The court may impose upon the
offender a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. §
4510.02(A)(7).
         (b)   1.   Except as provided in division (A)(4)(b)2. or (A)(4)(b)3.
of this section, the court, in addition to any other penalty that it imposes on
the offender and if the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111
or 4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court, in
addition to or independent of any other sentence that it imposes upon the
offender, may order the immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense
for 30 days and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license plates for 30 days in
accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
            2.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to two violations of this section, or any combination of
two violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to any
other sentence that it imposes on the offender, may order the immobilization of
the vehicle involved in the offense for 60 days and the impoundment of that
vehicle’s license plates for 60 days in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
            3.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, or any
combination of three or more violations of this section or R.C. § 4510.11,
4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the
court, in addition to any other sentence that it imposes on the offender, may
order the criminal forfeiture of the vehicle involved in the offense to the
state.
      (5)   Any order for immobilization and impoundment under this section
shall be issued and enforced under R.C. §§ 4503.233 and 4507.02, as applicable.
The court shall not release a vehicle from immobilization ordered under this
section unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
      (6)   Any order of criminal forfeiture under this section shall be issued
and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234. Upon receipt of the copy of the order from
the court, neither the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor a deputy registrar shall
accept any application for the registration or transfer of registration of any
motor vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the declaration of
forfeiture. The period of registration denial shall be five years after the
date of the order, unless, during that period, the court having jurisdiction of
the offense that led to the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the
Registrar of the termination. The Registrar then shall take necessary measures
to permit the person to register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to
transfer registration of the vehicle.
      (7)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.11)
   (B)   Driving under suspension in violation of other provisions.
      (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking in this municipality whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license
has been suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2151.354, 2151.87, 2935.27, 3123.58,
4301.99, 4510.032, 4510.22, or 4510.33, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
      (2)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (B)(1) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under suspension at the
time of the alleged violation of division (B)(1) of this section. The person
charged with a violation of division (B)(1) of this section may offer evidence
to rebut this prima facie evidence.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
driving under suspension and shall be punished as provided in division (B)(3)
(a) or division (B)(3)(b) of this section.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3)(b) of this
section, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. The offender shall be
sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
         (b)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously
was convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (B)(1)
of this section, or any combination of two or more violations of division (B)
(1) of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or 4510.16, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree, and the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. § 2929.28 in
an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an accident
or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the offender’s
operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing the offense for
which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.111)
   (C)   Repeat traffic offender; point system suspension. Any person whose
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privileges are suspended as a repeat traffic offender under R.C. § 4510.037 and
who, during the suspension, operates any motor vehicle upon any public roads
and highways is guilty of driving under a twelve-point suspension, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. The court shall sentence the offender to a
minimum term of three days in jail. No court shall suspend the first three days
of jail time imposed pursuant to this division.
(R.C. § 4510.037(J))
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under division
(A) of this section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a
valid permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
§ 71.29 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE OR MOTORCYCLE WITHOUT VALID LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   No person, except those expressly exempted under R.C. §§
4507.03, 4507.04, and 4507.05, shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public
road or highway or any public or private property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person
has a valid driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a commercial
driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506.
      (2)   No person, except a person expressly exempted under R.C. §§
4507.03, 4507.04, and 4507.05, shall operate any motorcycle upon a public road
or highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person has a valid
license as a motorcycle operator that was issued upon application by the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. Chapter 4507. The license shall be in
the form of an endorsement, as determined by the Registrar, upon a driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, if the person has a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle, or in the form of a restricted
license as provided in R.C. § 4507.14, if the person does not have a valid
license to operate a motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle.
   (B)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima facie evidence that the person did not have either a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A)(1) of this section or a valid license as a motorcycle operator
either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or a restricted license at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A)(2) of this section. The person charged with a violation of
division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may offer evidence to rebut this
prima facie evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or motorcycle without a valid license and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   If the trier of fact finds that the offender never has held a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license issued by this state or any other
jurisdiction, or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the
offender, if the offender has never held a valid license as a motorcycle
operator, either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or in the form of a restricted license, except as otherwise
provided in this division, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case. If the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the offender, the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license bearing the motorcycle
endorsement or the offender’s restricted license was expired at the time of the
offense, except as otherwise provided in this division, the offense is a minor
misdemeanor. If within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
   (D)   The court shall not impose a license suspension for a first violation
of this section or if more than three years have passed since the offender’s
last violation of R.C. § 4510.12, this section, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (E)   If the offender is sentenced under division (C)(2) of this section, if
within three years of the offense the offender previously was convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one or more violations of R.C. § 4510.12, this section, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and if the offender’s license was
expired for more than six months at the time of the offense, the court may
impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or
nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)
(7).
(R.C. § 4510.12)
§ 71.30 DRIVING UNDER OVI SUSPENSION.
   (A)   No person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege has been suspended under R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191, or 4511.196 or under R.C. § 4510.07 for a conviction of a violation
of a municipal OVI ordinance shall operate any motor vehicle upon the public
roads or highways within this municipality during the period of the suspension.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of driving under OVI
suspension. The court shall sentence the offender under R.C. Chapter 2929,
subject to the differences authorized or required by this section.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this
section, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first degree. The
court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of three consecutive days. The three-day
term shall be imposed, unless, subject to division (C) of this section, the
court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 30 consecutive days of house
arrest with electronic monitoring. A period of house arrest with electronic
monitoring imposed under this division shall not exceed six months. If the
court imposes a mandatory three-day jail term under this division, the court
may impose a jail term in addition to that term, provided that in no case shall
the cumulative jail term imposed for the offense exceed six months;
         (b)   A fine of not less than $250 and not more than $1,000;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, immobilization for 30 days of the
offender’s vehicle and impoundment for 30 days of the identification license
plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment shall be
issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (2)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section or one
equivalent offense, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of ten consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28, the court may
sentence the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The 10-
day mandatory jail term shall be imposed unless, subject to division (C) of
this section, the court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 90
consecutive days of house arrest with electronic monitoring. The period of
house arrest with electronic monitoring shall not exceed one year;
         (b)   Notwithstanding the fines provided for in R.C. Chapter 2929, a
fine of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, immobilization of the offender’s
vehicle for 60 days and the impoundment for 60 days of the identification
license plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment
shall be issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (3)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or two or more equivalent offenses, driving under OVI suspension is a
misdemeanor. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of 30 consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28, the court may
sentence the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The
court shall not sentence the offender to a term of house arrest with electronic
monitoring in lieu of the mandatory portion of the jail term;
         (b)   Notwithstanding the fines set forth in R.C. Chapter 2929, a fine
of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, criminal forfeiture to the state
of the offender’s vehicle. The order of criminal forfeiture shall be issued and
enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234. If title to a motor vehicle that
is subject to an order for criminal forfeiture under this division is assigned
or transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, the court may fine
the offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the
National Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds from any fine so imposed
shall be distributed in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (C)   (1)   No court shall impose an alternative sentence of house arrest
with electronic monitoring under division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section
unless, within 60 days of the date of sentencing, the court issues a written
finding on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail
where the offender is required to serve the jail term imposed, the offender
will not be able to begin serving that term within the 60-day period following
the date of sentencing.
      (2)   An offender sentenced under this section to a period of house
arrest with electronic monitoring shall be permitted work release during that
period.
   (D)   Fifty percent of any fine imposed by a court under division (B)(1),
(B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section shall be deposited into the municipal
Indigent Drivers Alcohol Treatment Fund under the control of that court, as
created by the municipality pursuant to R.C. § 4511.191(H).
   (E)   In addition to or independent of all other penalties provided by law
or ordinance, the trial judge of any court of record or the mayor of a mayor’s
court shall impose on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of this section a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
      (1)   When permitted as specified in R.C. § 4510.021, if the court grants
limited driving privileges during a suspension imposed under this section, the
privileges shall be granted on the additional condition that the offender must
display restricted license plates, issued under R.C. § 4503.231, on the vehicle
driven subject to the privileges, except as provided in R.C. § 4503.231(B).
      (2)   A suspension of a commercial driver’s license under this section
shall be concurrent with any period of suspension or disqualification under
R.C. § 3123.58 or R.C. § 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from
holding a commercial driver’s license under R.C. § 4506.16 shall be issued a
driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the
commercial driver’s license was suspended under this section, and no person
whose commercial driver’s license is suspended under this section shall be
issued a driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the
suspension.
   (F)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree under this
section for which the offender is sentenced.
   (G)   As used in this section:
      ELECTRONIC MONITORING. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of a municipal ordinance, law of another state, or
law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to division (A) of
this section;
         (b)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to division (A) of this section.
      JAIL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Means the mandatory term in jail of 3, 10, or 30
consecutive days that must be imposed under division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3)
of this section upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (A) of
this section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
must be served in a jail.
         (b)   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced, or otherwise modified pursuant to any provision
of the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 4510.14)
   (H)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
Statutory reference:
   Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal
forfeiture of vehicle, see R.C. § 4510.161
§ 71.31 DRIVING UNDER FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY LAW SUSPENSION OR CANCELLATION;
DRIVING UNDER A NONPAYMENT OF JUDGMENT SUSPENSION.
   (A)   No person, whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or temporary
instruction permit or nonresident’s operating privilege has been suspended or
canceled pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4509, shall operate any motor vehicle within
this municipality, or knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to
be operated by another person in the municipality, during the period of the
suspension or cancellation, except as specifically authorized by R.C. Chapter
4509. No person shall operate a motor vehicle within this municipality, or
knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to be operated by
another person in the municipality, during the period in which the person is
required by R.C. § 4509.45 to file and maintain proof of financial
responsibility for a violation of R.C. § 4509.101, unless proof of financial
responsibility is maintained with respect to that vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any public
or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking in this municipality if the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or temporary instruction permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended pursuant to R.C. § 4509.37 or 4509.40 for nonpayment of a
judgment.
   (C)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A) or (B) of this section may be admitted into evidence
as prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under either a
financial responsibility law suspension at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A) of this section or a nonpayment of judgment suspension at the time
of the alleged violation of division (B) of this section. The person charged
with a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section may offer evidence to
rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of driving
under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation and shall be
punished as provided in this division (D). Whoever violates division (B) of
this section is guilty of driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension and
shall be punished as provided in this division (D).
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(2) of this section,
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified
misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously was
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section, or
any combination of two violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or
4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (3)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. § 2929.28 in
an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an accident
or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the offender’s
operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing the offense for
which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.16)
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the order of suspension resulted from the failure of the alleged
offender to respond to a financial responsibility random verification request
under R.C. § 4509.101(A)(3)(c) and that, at the time of the initial financial
responsibility random verification request, the alleged offender was in
compliance with R.C. § 4509.101(A)(1) as shown by proof of financial
responsibility that was in effect at the time of that request.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
Statutory reference:
   Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal
forfeiture of vehicle, see R.C. § 4510.161
§ 71.32 FAILURE TO REINSTATE LICENSE.
   (A)   No person whose driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, or nonresident’s operating privilege has been
suspended shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public road or highway or any
public or private property after the suspension has expired unless the person
has complied with all license reinstatement requirements imposed by the court,
the bureau of motor vehicles, or another provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (B)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the license of the person had not been reinstated by
the person at the time of the alleged violation of division (A) of this
section. The person charged with a violation of division (A) of this section
may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to reinstate a
license, and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of a violation of division (A) of this
section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of two
or more violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.21 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   In all cases, the court may impose upon the offender a class seven
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
(R.C. § 4510.21)
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSES
§ 71.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL CONCENTRATION. The concentration of alcohol in a person’s blood,
breath or urine. When expressed as a percentage, it means grams of alcohol per
the following: 100 milliliters of whole blood, blood serum, or blood plasma;
210 liters of breath; or 100 milliliters of urine.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE. A license issued in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 4506 that authorizes an individual to drive a commercial motor vehicle.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE INFORMATION SYSTEM. The information system
established pursuant to the requirements of the “Commercial Motor Vehicle
Safety Act of 1986", 100 Stat. 3207-171, 49 U.S.C. App. 2701.
   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Except when used in R.C. § 4506.25, any motor
vehicle designed or used to transport persons or property that meets any of the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Any combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight or combined
gross vehicle weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more, provided that the gross
vehicle weight or gross vehicle weight rating of the vehicle or vehicles being
towed is in excess of 10,000 pounds;
      (2)   Any single vehicle with a gross vehicle weight or gross vehicle
weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more;
      (3)   Any single vehicle or combination of vehicles that is not a Class A
or Class B vehicle, but is designed to transport 16 or more passengers
including the driver;
      (4)   Any school bus with a gross vehicle weight or gross vehicle weight
rating of less than 26,001 pounds that is designed to transport fewer than 16
passengers including the driver;
      (5)   Is transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is
required under 49 C.F.R. part 172, subpart F, as amended; or
      (6)   Any single vehicle or combination of vehicles that is designed to
be operated and to travel on a public street or highway and is considered by
the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration to be a commercial motor
vehicle, including but not limited to a motorized crane, a vehicle whose
function is to pump cement, a rig for drilling wells, and a portable crane.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Includes all of the following:
      (1)   Any substance classified as a controlled substance under the
“Controlled Substances Act”, 80 Stat. 1242 (1970), 21 U.S.C. § 802(6), as
amended;
      (2)   Any substance included in Schedules I through V of 21 C.F.R. part
1308, as amended;
      (3)   Any drug of abuse.
   CONVICTION. An unvacated adjudication of guilt or a determination that a
person has violated or failed to comply with the law in a court of original
jurisdiction or an authorized administrative tribunal, an unvacated forfeiture
of bail or collateral deposited to secure the person’s appearance in court, a
plea of guilty or nolo contendere accepted by the court, the payment of a fine
or court cost, or violation of a condition of release without bail, regardless
of whether or not the penalty is rebated, suspended or probated.
   DISQUALIFICATION. Means any of the following:
      (1)   The suspension, revocation, or cancellation of a person’s
privileges to operate a commercial motor vehicle;
      (2)   Any withdrawal of a person’s privileges to operate a commercial
motor vehicle as the result of a violation of state or local law relating to
motor vehicle traffic control other than parking, vehicle weight, or vehicle
defect violations;
      (3)   A determination by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
that a person is not qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle under 49
C.F.R. § 391.
   DOMICILED. Having a true, fixed, principal, and permanent residence to which
an individual intends to return.
   DOWNGRADE. Any of the following, as applicable:
      (1)   A change in the commercial driver’s license, or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit, holder’s self-certified status as
described in R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1);
      (2)   A change to a lesser class of vehicle;
      (3)   Removal of commercial driver’s license privileges from the
individual’s driver’s license.
   DRIVE. To drive, operate or be in physical control of a motor vehicle.
   DRIVER. Any person who drives, operates or is in physical control of a
commercial motor vehicle or is required to have a commercial driver’s license.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A license issued by the Bureau of Motor Vehicles that
authorizes an individual to drive.
   DRUG OF ABUSE. Any controlled substance, dangerous drug as defined in R.C. §
4729.01, or over-the-counter medication that, when taken in quantities
exceeding the recommended dosage, can result in impairment of judgment or
reflexes.
   ELECTRONIC DEVICE. Includes a cellular telephone, a personal digital
assistant, a pager, a computer, and any other device used to input, write,
send, receive, or read text.
   ELIGIBLE UNIT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. A village, township, or county that has a
population of not more than 3,000 persons according to the most recent federal
census.
   EMPLOYER. Any person, including the federal government, any state, and a
political subdivision of any state, that owns or leases a commercial motor
vehicle or assigns a person to drive such a motor vehicle.
   ENDORSEMENT. An authorization on a person’s commercial driver’s license that
is required to permit the person to operate a specified type of commercial
motor vehicle.
   FARM TRUCK. A truck controlled and operated by a farmer for use in the
transportation to or from a farm, for a distance of not more than 150 miles, of
products of the farm, including livestock and its products, poultry and its
products, floricultural and horticultural products, and in the transportation
to the farm, from a distance of not more than 150 miles, of supplies for the
farm, including tile, fence and every other thing or commodity used in
agricultural, floricultural, horticultural, livestock, and poultry production,
and livestock, poultry, and other animals and things used for breeding,
feeding, or other purposes connected with the operation of the farm, when the
truck is operated in accordance with this definition and is not used in the
operations of a motor carrier, as defined in R.C. § 4923.01.
   FATALITY. The death of a person as the result of a motor vehicle accident
occurring not more than 365 days prior to the date of death.
   FELONY. Any offense under federal or state law that is punishable by death
or imprisonment for a term exceeding one year and includes any offense
specifically classified as a felony under the law of this state, regardless of
the penalty that may be imposed.
   FOREIGN JURISDICTION. Any jurisdiction other than a state.
   GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING. The value specified by the manufacturer as the
maximum loaded weight of a single or a combination vehicle. The gross vehicle
weight rating of a combination vehicle is the gross vehicle weight rating of
the power unit plus the gross vehicle weight rating of each towed unit.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material that has been designated as hazardous
under 49 U.S.C. § 5103 and is required to be placarded under 49 C.F.R. part
172, subpart F or any quantity of a material listed as a select agent or toxin
in 42 C.F.R. part 73, as amended.
   IMMINENT HAZARD. The existence of a condition that presents a substantial
likelihood that death, serious illness, severe personal injury, or a
substantial endangerment to health, property, or the environment may occur
before the reasonably foreseeable completion date of a formal proceeding begun
to lessen the risk of death, illness, injury, or endangerment.
   MEDICAL VARIANCE. One of the following received by a driver from the Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Administration that allows the driver to be issued a
medical certificate:
      (1)   An exemption letter permitting operation of a commercial motor
vehicle under 49 C.F.R. part 381, subpart C or 49 C.F.R. § 391.64;
      (2)   A skill performance evaluation certificate permitting operation of
a commercial motor vehicle pursuant to 49 C.F.R. § 391.49.
   MOBILE TELEPHONE. A mobile communication device that falls under or uses any
commercial mobile radio service as defined in 47 C.F.R. part 20, except that
mobile telephone does not include two- way or citizens band radio services.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer, or semitrailer
propelled or drawn by mechanical power used on highways, except that such term
does not include a vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer, or semitrailer operated
exclusively on a rail.
   OUT-OF-SERVICE ORDER. A declaration by an authorized enforcement officer of
a federal, state, local, Canadian, or Mexican jurisdiction declaring that the
driver, commercial motor vehicle, or commercial motor carrier operation is out
of service as defined in 49 C.F.R. § 390.5.
   PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
   PORTABLE TANK. A liquid or gaseous packaging designed primarily to be loaded
onto or temporarily attached to a vehicle and equipped with skids, mountings,
or accessories to facilitate handling of the tank by mechanical means.
   PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01(E)(1) and
(E)(3).
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Includes every vehicle that is defined as a
recreational vehicle in R.C. § 4501.01 and is used exclusively for purposes
other than engaging in business for profit.
   RESIDENCE. Any person’s residence determined in accordance with standards
prescribed in the rules adopted by the Registrar.
   SCHOOL BUS. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   SERIOUS TRAFFIC VIOLATION. Any of the following:
      (1)   A conviction arising from a single charge of operating a commercial
motor vehicle in violation of any provision of R.C. § 4506.03;
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (2)(b) of this definition, a
violation while operating a commercial motor vehicle of a law of this state, or
any municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or any other
substantially equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of
another state, prohibiting either of the following:
            1.   Texting while driving;
            2.   Using a handheld mobile telephone.
         (b)   It is not a serious traffic violation if the person was texting
or using a handheld mobile telephone to contact law enforcement or other
emergency services.
      (3)   A conviction arising from the operation of any motor vehicle that
involves any of the following:
         (a)   A single charge of any speed in excess of the posted speed limit
by 15 mph or more;
         (b)   Violations of R.C. § 4511.20 or R.C. § 4511.201 or any
substantially equivalent ordinance or resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state;
         (c)   Violation of a law of this state or an ordinance or resolution
relating to traffic control, other than a parking violation, or of any
substantially equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of
another state, that results in a fatal accident;
         (d)   Violation of R.C. § 4506.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state, that
involves the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver’s license with the proper class or endorsement for the specific vehicle
group being operated or for the passengers or type of cargo being transported;
         (e)   Violation of R.C. § 4506.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state, that
involves the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver’s license being in the person’s possession;
         (f)   Violation of R.C. § 4511.33 or R.C. § 4511.34, or any municipal
ordinance or county or township resolution substantially equivalent to either
of those sections, or any substantially equivalent law of another state or
political subdivision of another state;
         (g)   Violation of any other law of this state, any law of another
state, or any ordinance or resolution of a political subdivision of this state
or another state that meets both of the following requirements:
            1.   It relates to traffic control, other than a parking violation;
            2.   It is determined to be a serious traffic violation by the
United States Secretary of Transportation and is designated by the director as
such by rule.
   STATE. A state of the United States and includes the District of Columbia.
   TANK VEHICLE. Any commercial motor vehicle that is designed to transport any
liquid or gaseous materials within a tank or tanks that are either permanently
or temporarily attached to the vehicle or its chassis and have an individual
rated capacity of more than 119 gallons and an aggregate rated capacity of
1,000 gallons or more. The term does not include a commercial motor vehicle
transporting an empty storage container tank that is not designed for
transportation, has a rated capacity of 1,000 gallons or more, and is
temporarily attached to a flatbed trailer.
   TESTER. Means a person or entity acting pursuant to a valid agreement
entered into pursuant to R.C. § 4506.09(B).
   TEXTING. Manually entering alphanumeric text into, or reading text from, an
electronic device. Texting includes short message service (SMS), e-mail,
instant messaging, a command or request to access a world wide web page,
pressing more than a single button to initiate or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone, or engaging in any other form of
electronic text retrieval or entry, for present or future communication.
Texting does not include the following:
      (1)   Using voice commands to initiate, receive, or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone;
      (2)   Inputting, selecting, or reading information on a global
positioning system or navigation system;
      (3)   Pressing a single button to initiate or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone; or
      (4)   Using, for a purpose that is not otherwise prohibited by law, a
device capable of performing multiple functions, such as a fleet management
system, a dispatching device, a mobile telephone, a citizens band radio, or a
music player.
   TEXTING WHILE DRIVING. Texting while operating a commercial motor vehicle,
with the motor running, including while temporarily stationary because of
traffic, a traffic-control device, or other momentary delays. Texting while
driving does not include operating a commercial motor vehicle with or without
the motor running when the driver has moved the vehicle to the side of, or off,
a highway and is stopped in a location where the vehicle can safely remain
stationary.
   UNITED STATES. The 50 states and the District of Columbia.
   UPGRADE. A change in the class of vehicles, endorsements, or self-certified
status as described in R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1) that expands the ability of a
current commercial driver’s license holder to operate commercial motor vehicles
under this chapter or R.C. Chapter 4506.
   USE OF A HANDHELD MOBILE TELEPHONE. Means:
      (1)   Using at least one hand to hold a mobile telephone to conduct a
voice communication;
      (2)   Dialing or answering a mobile telephone by pressing more than a
single button; or
      (3)   Reaching for a mobile telephone in a manner that requires a driver
to maneuver so that the driver is no longer in a seated driving position, or
restrained by a seat belt that is installed in accordance with 49 C.F.R. §
393.93 and adjusted in accordance with the vehicle manufacturer’s instructions.
   VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 4506.01)
§ 71.46 USE OF ACTUAL GROSS WEIGHT IN LIEU OF RATING.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the actual gross weight of a vehicle or
combination of vehicles may be used in lieu of a gross vehicle weight rating to
determine whether a vehicle or combination of vehicles qualifies as a
commercial motor vehicle if the gross vehicle weight rating specified by the
manufacturer for the vehicle of combination of vehicles is not determinable, or
if the manufacturer of the vehicle has not specified a gross vehicle weight
rating.
(R.C. § 4506.011)
§ 71.47 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having in the person’s
possession or otherwise under the person’s control more than one valid driver’s
license issued by this state, any other state, or by a foreign jurisdiction;
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this municipality
in violation of an out- of-service order while the person’s driving privilege
is suspended, revoked, or cancelled, or while the person is subject to
disqualification;
      (3)   Drive a motor vehicle on a highway in the municipality under the
authority of a commercial driver’s license issued by another state or a foreign
jurisdiction, after having been a resident of this state for 30 days or longer;
      (4)   Knowingly give false information in any application or
certification required by R.C. § 4506.07.
   (B)   The municipality shall give every conviction occurring out of this
state and notice of which was received by the state Department of Public Safety
after December 31, 1989, full faith and credit and treat it for sanctioning
purposes under this chapter as though the conviction had occurred in this
state.
(R.C. § 4506.04(A), (B))
   (C)   No person shall drive any commercial motor vehicle for which an
endorsement is required under R.C. § 4506.12 unless the proper endorsement
appears on the person’s commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit. No person shall drive a commercial motor
vehicle in violation of a restriction established under R.C. § 4506.12 that
appears on the person’s commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit.
(R.C. § 4506.12(I))
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of
falsification, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition, the provisions
of R.C. § 4507.19 apply.
(R.C. § 4506.04(C))
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   The offenses established under division (C) of this section are
strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of
these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply
that any other offense for which there is no specified degree of culpability,
whether in this section or another section of this code or the Ohio Revised
Code, is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4506.12(J))
§ 71.48 PREREQUISITES TO OPERATION OF COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (B) or (C) of this section, the
following shall apply:
      (1)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in
this state unless the person holds, and has in the person’s possession, any of
the following:
         (a)   A valid commercial driver’s license with proper endorsements for
the motor vehicle being driven, issued by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or by
another jurisdiction recognized by this state;
         (b)   A valid examiner’s commercial driving permit issued under R.C. §
4506.13;
         (c)   A valid restricted commercial driver’s license and waiver for
farm-related service industries issued under R.C. § 4506.24;
         (d)   A valid commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit
issued by the Registrar, provided that the person is accompanied by an
authorized state driver’s license examiner or tester or a person who has been
issued and has in the person’s immediate possession a current, valid commercial
driver’s license and who meets the requirements of R.C. § 4506.06(B).
      (2)   No person’s commercial driver’s license temporary instruction
permit shall be upgraded, and no commercial driver’s license shall be upgraded,
renewed, or issued to a person until the person surrenders to the registrar of
motor vehicles all valid licenses and permits issued to the person by this
state or by another jurisdiction recognized by this state. If the license or
permit was issued by any other state or another jurisdiction recognized by this
state, the Registrar shall report the surrender of a license or permit to the
issuing authority, together with information that a license or permit is now
issued in this state. The Registrar shall destroy any such license or permit
that is not returned to the issuing authority.
      (3)   No person who has been a resident of this state for 30 days or
longer shall drive a commercial motor vehicle under the authority of a
commercial driver’s license issued in another jurisdiction.
   (B)   Nothing in division (A) of this section applies to any qualified
person when engaged in the operation of any of the following:
      (1)   A farm truck;
      (2)   Fire equipment for a fire department, volunteer or nonvolunteer
fire company, fire district, or joint fire district;
      (3)   A public safety vehicle used to provide transportation or emergency
medical service for ill or injured persons;
      (4)   A recreational vehicle;
      (5)   A commercial motor vehicle within the boundaries of an eligible
unit of local government, if the person is employed by the eligible unit of
local government and is operating the commercial motor vehicle for the purpose
of removing snow or ice from a roadway by plowing, sanding, or salting, but
only if either the employee who holds a commercial driver’s license issued
under R.C. Chapter 4506 and ordinarily operates a commercial motor vehicle for
these purposes is unable to operate the vehicle, or the employing eligible unit
of local government determines that a snow or ice emergency exists that
requires additional assistance;
      (6)   A vehicle operated for military purposes by any member or uniformed
employee of the armed forces of the United States or their reserve components,
including the Ohio National Guard. This exception does not apply to United
States reserve technicians;
      (7)   A commercial motor vehicle that is operated for nonbusiness
purposes. “Operated for nonbusiness purposes” means that the commercial motor
vehicle is not used in commerce as “commerce” is defined in 49 C.F.R. § 383.5,
as amended, and is not regulated by the Public Utilities Commission pursuant to
R.C. Chapter 4905, 4921, or 4923;
      (8)   A motor vehicle that is designed primarily for the transportation
of goods and not persons, while that motor vehicle is being used for the
occasional transportation of personal property by individuals not for
compensation and not in the furtherance of a commercial enterprise;
      (9)   A police SWAT team vehicle;
      (10)   A police vehicle used to transport prisoners.
   (C)   Nothing contained in division (B)(5) of this section shall be
construed as preempting or superseding any law, rule or regulation of this
state concerning the safe operation of commercial motor vehicles.
(R.C. § 4506.03(A) - (C))
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a person may drive a
commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this municipality if all of the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The person has a valid commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit issued by any state or
jurisdiction in accordance with the minimum standards adopted by the Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Administration under the “Commercial Motor Vehicle Safety
Act of 1986", 100 Stat. 3207-171, 49 U.S.C. App., for issuance of commercial
driver’s licenses;
      (2)   The person’s commercial driver’s license or temporary instruction
permit is not suspended, revoked, or canceled, and the person has the
appropriate endorsements for the vehicle that is being driven;
      (3)   The person is not disqualified from driving a commercial motor
vehicle;
      (4)   The person is not subject to an out-of-service order;
      (5)   The person is medically certified as physically qualified to
operate a commercial motor vehicle in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4506.
         (a)   A person who submitted a medical examiner’s certificate to the
Registrar in accordance with R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1) and whose medical
certification information is maintained in the commercial driver’s license
information system is not required to have the medical examiner’s certificate
in the person’s possession when on duty.
         (b)   A person whose medical certification information is not
maintained in the commercial driver’s license information system shall have in
the person’s possession when on duty the original or a copy of the current
medical examiner’s certificate that was submitted to the Registrar. However,
the person may operate a commercial motor vehicle with such proof of medical
certification for not more than 15 days after the date the current medical
examiner’s certificate was issued to the person.
         (c)   A person who has a medical variance shall have in the person’s
possession the original or copy of the medical variance documentation at all
times while on duty.
   (E)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this
municipality if the person does not meet the conditions specified in division
(D) of this section.
   (F)   Except as set forth in 49 C.F.R. §§ 390.3(f), 391.2, 391.62, 391.67,
and 391.68, no person holding a commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit or a commercial driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter
4506 may drive a commercial motor vehicle in interstate commerce until the
person is at least 21 years of age.
(R.C. § 4506.05(A) - (C))
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (2)   The offenses established under divisions (D), (E) and (F) of this
section are strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The
designation of these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be
construed to imply that any other offense, for which there is no specified
degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. §§ 4506.03(D), 4506.05(D))
§ 71.49 PHYSICAL QUALIFICATION TO OPERATE COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person who holds a valid commercial driver’s license shall drive a
commercial motor vehicle unless the person is physically qualified to do so.
      (1)   Any person applying for a commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit, the renewal or upgrade of a
commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit, or the transfer of a commercial driver’s license from out
of state shall self-certify to the Registrar for purposes of 49 C.F.R. § 383.71
one of the following in regard to the applicant’s operation of a commercial
motor vehicle, as applicable:
         (a)   1.   If the applicant operates or expects to operate a
commercial motor vehicle in interstate or foreign commerce and is subject to
and meets the requirements under 49 C.F.R. part 391, the applicant shall self-
certify that the applicant is non-excepted interstate and shall provide the
Registrar with the original or a copy of a medical examiner’s certificate and
each subsequently issued medical examiner’s certificate prepared by a qualified
medical examiner to maintain a medically certified status on the applicant’s
commercial driver licensing system driver record;
            2.   If the applicant operates or expects to operate a commercial
motor vehicle in interstate commerce, but engages in transportation or
operations excepted under 49 C.F.R. §§ 390.3(f), 391.2, 391.68, or 398.3 from
all or parts of the qualification requirements of 49 C.F.R. part 391, the
applicant shall self-certify that the applicant is excepted interstate and is
not required to obtain a medical examiner’s certificate;
         (b)   1.   If the applicant operates only in intrastate commerce and
is subject to state driver qualification requirements, the applicant shall
self-certify that the applicant is non-excepted intrastate;
            2.   If the applicant operates only in intrastate commerce and is
excepted from all or parts of the state driver qualification requirements, the
applicant shall self-certify that the applicant is excepted intrastate.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the expiration date on a person’s commercial
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit,
every commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit holder shall provide the Registrar with the certification
required by this section on or after January 30, 2012, but prior to January 30,
2014.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4506.10(A), (E))
§ 71.50 CRIMINAL OFFENSES.
   (A)   No person who holds a commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit or who operates a motor vehicle
for which a commercial driver’s license or permit is required shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having a measurable or
detectable amount of alcohol or of a controlled substance in the person’s
blood, breath, or urine;
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of 0.04% or more by whole blood or breath;
      (3)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of .048% or more by blood serum or blood plasma;
      (4)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of .056% or more by urine;
      (5)   Drive a motor vehicle while under the influence of a controlled
substance;
      (6)   Drive a motor vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a municipal
OVI ordinance as defined in R.C. § 4511.181;
      (7)   Use a vehicle in the commission of a felony;
      (8)   Refuse to submit to a test under R.C. § 4506.17 or R.C. § 4511.191,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (9)   Operate a commercial motor vehicle while the person’s commercial
driver’s license or permit or other commercial driving privileges are revoked,
suspended, cancelled, or disqualified;
      (10)   Cause a fatality through the negligent operation of a commercial
motor vehicle, including but not limited to the offenses of aggravated
vehicular homicide, vehicular homicide, and vehicular manslaughter;
      (11)   Fail to stop after an accident in violation of R.C. §§ 4549.02 to
4549.03, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (12)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle in violation of any provision of
R.C. §§ 4511.61 through 4511.63 or any federal or local law or ordinance
pertaining to railroad-highway grade crossings;
      (13)   Use a motor vehicle in the commission of a felony involving the
manufacture, distribution, or dispensing of a controlled substance as defined
in R.C. § 3719.01 or the possession with intent to manufacture, distribute, or
dispense a controlled substance.
(R.C. § 4506.15(A))
   (B)   No person shall refuse to immediately surrender the person’s
commercial driver’s license or permit to a peace officer when required to do so
by R.C. § 4506.17.
(R.C. § 4506.17(H))
   (C)   (1)   Within the jurisdictional limits of the appointing authority,
any peace officer shall stop and detain any person found violating division (A)
of this section without obtaining a warrant. When there is reasonable ground to
believe that a violation of division (A) of this section has been committed and
a test or tests of the person’s whole blood, blood plasma or blood serum,
breath or urine is necessary, the peace officer shall take the person to an
appropriate place for testing. If a person refuses to submit to a test after
being warned as provided in R.C. § 4506.17(C), or submits to a test that
discloses the presence of a controlled substance or an alcohol concentration of
0.04% or more by whole blood or breath, an alcohol concentration of .048% or
more by blood serum or blood plasma, or an alcohol concentration of .056% or
more by urine, the peace officer shall require that the person immediately
surrender the person’s commercial driver’s license to the peace officer.
      (2)   As used in this division (C), JURISDICTIONAL LIMITS means the
limits within which a peace officer may arrest and detain a person without a
warrant under R.C. § 2935.03, except that the Superintendent and the troopers
of the State Highway Patrol may stop and detain, without warrant, any person
who, in the presence of the Superintendent or any trooper, is engaged in a
violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter or R.C. Chapter 4506.
(R.C. § 4506.23)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. §§ 4506.15(B), 4506.17(N))
Statutory reference:
   Alcohol or controlled substance testing, disqualification of drivers, see
R.C. § 4506.17
   Disqualification of drivers for violations, see R.C. § 4506.16
§ 71.51 APPLICATION OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of 49 C.F.R. part 383, subpart C (Notification
Requirements and Employer Responsibilities), as amended, shall apply to all
commercial drivers or persons who apply for employment as commercial drivers.
No person shall fail to make a report to the person’s employer as required by
this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4506.19)
§ 71.52 EMPLOYMENT OF DRIVERS OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   Each employer shall require every applicant for employment as a driver
of a commercial vehicle to provide the applicant’s employment history for the
ten years preceding the date the employment application is submitted to the
prospective employer. The following information shall be submitted:
      (1)   A list of the names and addresses of the applicant’s previous
employers for which the applicant was the operator of a commercial motor
vehicle;
      (2)   The dates the applicant was employed by these employers;
      (3)   The reason for leaving each of these employers.
   (B)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize any driver employed by
the employer to drive a commercial motor vehicle during any period in which any
of the following apply:
      (1)   The driver’s commercial driver’s license is suspended, revoked, or
cancelled by any state or a foreign jurisdiction;
      (2)   The driver has lost the privilege to drive, or currently is
disqualified from driving, a commercial motor vehicle in any state or foreign
jurisdiction;
      (3)   The driver, the commercial motor vehicle the driver is driving, or
the motor carrier operation is subject to an out-of-service order in any state
or a foreign jurisdiction;
      (4)   The driver has more than one driver’s license.
   (C)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a
commercial motor vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4506.15.
   (D)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a
commercial motor vehicle if the driver does not hold a valid, current
commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit bearing the proper class or endorsements for the vehicle. No
employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a commercial
motor vehicle in violation of the restrictions on the driver’s commercial
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A), (B) or (D) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 4506.20)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty
otherwise is provided in the section that contains the provision violated is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. §§ 4506.99, 4507.99)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
72.001   Lanes of travel upon roadways
   
72.002   Driving through safety zone
   
72.003   Vehicles traveling in opposite directions
   
72.004   Rules governing overtaking and passing of vehicles
   
72.005   Permission to overtake and pass on the right
   
72.006   Driving to left of center line
   
72.007   Prohibition against driving upon left side of roadway
   
72.008   Hazardous zones
   
72.009   One-way highways and rotary traffic islands
   
72.010   Rules for driving in marked lanes
   
72.011   Space between moving vehicles
   
72.012   Divided roadways
   
72.013   Rules for turns at intersections
   
72.014   U-turns and turning in roadway prohibited
   
72.015   Starting and backing vehicles
   
72.016   Turn and stop signals
   
72.017   Hand and arm signals
   
72.018   Nuisance operation of motor vehicles
   
72.019   Operation of golf carts
Right-of-Way
   
72.030   Right-of-way at intersections
   
72.031   Right-of-way when turning left
   
72.032   Right-of-way at through highways; stop signs; yield signs
   
72.033   Stop at sidewalk area; stop signs on private roads and driveways
   
72.034   Right-of-way on public highway
   
72.035   Pedestrian on sidewalk has right-of-way
   
72.036   Right-of-way of public safety vehicles
   
72.037   Funeral procession has right-of-way
   
72.038   Pedestrians yield right-of-way to public safety vehicle
   
72.039   Pedestrian on crosswalk has right-of-way
   
72.040   Right-of-way yielded to blind person
   
72.041   Right-of-way yielded by pedestrian
Pedestrians
   
72.055   Pedestrian movement in crosswalks
   
72.056   Pedestrian walking along highway
   
72.057   Prohibition against soliciting rides; riding on outside of vehicle
   
72.058   Pedestrian on bridge or railroad crossing
   
72.059   Persons operating motorized wheelchairs
   
72.060   Intoxicated or drugged pedestrian hazard on highway
   
72.061   Operation of electric personal assistive mobility devices
   
72.062   Operation of personal delivery device on sidewalks and crosswalks
   
72.063   Low-speed micromobility devices
Grade Crossings
   
72.075   Stop signs at grade crossings
   
72.076   Driving vehicle across railroad grade crossing
   
72.077   Vehicles required to stop at grade crossings
   
72.078   Slow-moving vehicles or equipment crossing railroad tracks
School Buses
   
72.090   Regulations concerning school buses
   
72.091   Violation of regulations; report; investigation; citation; warning
   
72.092   Restrictions on the operation of school buses
   
72.093   School bus inspection
   
72.094   School bus not used for school purposes
   
72.095   Licensing by Department of Public Safety
   
72.096   Registration and identification of school buses
   
72.097   School bus marking
   
72.098   Flashing light signal lamps
   
72.099   Occupant restraining device for operator
Prohibitions
   
72.115   Obstruction and interference affecting view and control of driver
   
72.116   Occupying travel trailer while in motion
   
72.117   Driving upon closed highway prohibited
   
72.118   Driving upon sidewalk area or paths exclusively for bicycles
   
72.119   Obstructing passage of other vehicles
   
72.120   Following an emergency or public vehicle prohibited; approaching
stationary public safety vehicle and certain other vehicles with caution
   
72.121   Driving over unprotected fire hose
   
72.122   Placing injurious material on highway or depositing litter from motor
vehicle
   
72.123   Transporting child not in child-restraint system prohibited
   
72.124   Occupant restraining devices
   
72.125   Use of engine brakes prohibited
   
72.126   Operating motor vehicle while wearing earphones or earplugs
   
72.127   Chauffeured limousines and livery services
   
72.128   Operating traction engine upon improved highway
   
72.129   Cracking exhaust noises; peeling out
   
72.130   Shortcutting across private property
   
72.131   Texting while driving prohibited
   
72.132   Use of electronic wireless communication devices by minors or
probationary drivers while driving prohibited
Statutory reference:
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.001 LANES OF TRAVEL UPON ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction, or when making a left turn under the rules governing such movements;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the highway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the highway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   When driving upon a roadway divided into three or more marked lanes
for traffic under the rules applicable thereon;
      (4)   When driving upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for
one-way traffic;
      (5)   When otherwise directed by a police officer or traffic-control
device.
   (B)   (1)   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the
prevailing and lawful speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall be driven in the right-hand lane then available
for traffic, and far enough to the right to allow passing by faster vehicles if
such passing is safe and reasonable, except under any of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction;
         (b)   When preparing for a left turn;
         (c)   When the driver must necessarily drive in a lane other than the
right-hand lane to continue on the driver’s intended route.
      (2)   Nothing in division (B)(1) of this section requires a driver of a
slower vehicle to compromise the driver’s safety to allow overtaking by a
faster vehicle.
   (C)   Upon any roadway having four or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for two-way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the center line of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic-control devices designating certain lanes to the left of the center of
the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use the lanes, or
except as permitted under division (A)(2) of this section. This division shall
not be construed as prohibiting the crossing of the center line in making a
left turn into or from an alley, private road, or driveway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.25)
§ 72.002 DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within a safety
zone.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.60)
§ 72.003 VEHICLES TRAVELING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   Operators of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass
each other to the right, and upon roadways having width for not more than one
line of traffic in each direction, each operator shall give to the other one-
half of the main traveled portion of the roadway or as nearly one-half as is
reasonably possible.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.26)
§ 72.004 RULES GOVERNING OVERTAKING AND PASSING OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction:
      (1)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall, except as provided in division (A)(3) of this
section, signal to the vehicle to be overtaken, shall pass to the left thereof
at a safe distance, and shall not again drive to the right side of the roadway
until safely clear of the overtaken vehicle. When a motor vehicle overtakes and
passes a bicycle or electric bicycle, three feet or greater is considered a
safe passing distance.
      (2)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
operator of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle at the latter’s audible signal, and the operator shall not
increase the speed of the operator’s vehicle until completely passed by the
overtaking vehicle.
      (3)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking and passing another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction on a divided highway as defined in R.C. §
4511.35, a limited access highway as defined in R.C. § 5511.02, or a highway
with four or more traffic lanes is not required to signal audibly to the
vehicle being overtaken and passed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.27)
§ 72.005 PERMISSION TO OVERTAKE AND PASS ON THE RIGHT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass on the right of another
vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
or
      (2)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
two or more lines of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being traveled
by the overtaking vehicle.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle only
under conditions permitting the movement in safety. The movement shall not be
made by driving off the roadway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.28)
§ 72.006 DRIVING TO LEFT OF CENTER LINE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left of the center of the roadway in
overtaking and passing traffic proceeding in the same direction, unless the
left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit the overtaking and passing to be completely made
without interfering with the safe operation of any traffic approaching from the
opposite direction or any traffic overtaken. In every event, the overtaking
vehicle must return to an authorized lane of travel as soon as practicable, and
in the event the passing movement involves the use of a lane authorized for the
traffic approaching from the opposite direction, before coming within 200 feet
of any approaching vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.29)
§ 72.007 PROHIBITION AGAINST DRIVING UPON LEFT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven upon the left side of the roadway under the
following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway, where the operator’s view is obstructed within such a distance as to
create a hazard in the event traffic might approach from the opposite
direction;
      (2)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct, or tunnel; or
      (3)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection
or railroad grade crossing.
   (B)   This section does not apply to vehicles upon a one-way roadway, upon a
roadway where traffic is lawfully directed to be driven to the left side, or
under the conditions described in R.C. § 4511.25(A)(2) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.30)
§ 72.008 HAZARDOUS ZONES.
   (A)   The Department of Transportation may determine those portions of any
state highway where overtaking and passing other traffic or driving to the left
of the center or center line of the roadway would be especially hazardous, and
may, by appropriate signs or markings on the highway, indicate the beginning
and end of such zones. When signs or markings are in place and clearly visible,
every operator of a vehicle shall obey the directions of the signs or markings,
notwithstanding the distances set out in R.C. § 4511.30.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply when all of the following
apply:
      (1)   The slower vehicle is proceeding at less than half the speed of the
speed limit applicable to that location.
      (2)   The faster vehicle is capable of overtaking and passing the slower
vehicle without exceeding the speed limit.
      (3)   There is sufficient clear sight distance to the left of the center
or center line of the roadway to meet the overtaking and passing provisions of
R.C. § 4511.29, considering the speed of the slower vehicle.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.31)
§ 72.009 ONE-WAY HIGHWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for one-way
traffic, a vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated.
      (2)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven
only to the right of the rotary traffic island.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.32)
§ 72.010 RULES FOR DRIVING IN MARKED LANES.
   (A)   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for traffic, or wherever within the municipality traffic is lawfully
moving in two or more substantially continuous lines in the same direction, the
following rules apply:
      (1)   A vehicle shall be driven, as nearly as is practicable, entirely
within a single lane or line of traffic and shall not be moved from the lane or
line until the driver has first ascertained that the movement can be made with
safety.
      (2)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes and provides for
the two-way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center
lane, except when overtaking and passing another vehicle where the roadway is
clearly visible and the center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance,
or when preparing for a left turn, or where the center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is
proceeding, and is posted with signs to give notice of such allocation.
      (3)   Official signs may be erected directing specified traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction, regardless of the center of the roadway, or restricting
the use of a particular lane to only buses during certain hours or during all
hours, and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of such signs.
      (4)   Official traffic-control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway, and drivers of vehicles shall obey
the directions of every such device.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.33)
§ 72.011 SPACE BETWEEN MOVING VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle
more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of
the vehicle and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway.
      (2)   The driver of any truck, or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle,
when traveling upon a roadway outside a business or residence district, shall
maintain a sufficient space, whenever conditions permit, between the vehicle
and another vehicle ahead so an overtaking motor vehicle may enter and occupy
the space without danger. This division does not prevent overtaking and passing
nor does it apply to any lane specially designated for use by trucks.
      (3)   Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business
or residence district in a caravan or motorcade shall maintain a sufficient
space between the vehicles so an overtaking vehicle may enter and occupy the
space without danger. This division shall not apply to funeral processions.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.34)
§ 72.012 DIVIDED ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Whenever any highway has been divided into two roadways by an
intervening space, or by a physical barrier, or a clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right-hand roadway, and no vehicle shall be driven over,
across, or within any dividing space, barrier, or section, except through an
opening, crossover, or intersection established by public authority. This
section does not prohibit the occupancy of the dividing space, barrier, or
section for the purpose of an emergency stop, or in compliance with an order of
a police officer.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.35)
§ 72.013 RULES FOR TURNS AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall be
governed by the following rules:
      (1)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right- hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
center line thereof and by passing to the right of the center line where it
enters the intersection, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn
shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the center line
of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made
in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection.
      (3)   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on
one or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at
any such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand
lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of the
vehicle, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so
as to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left-hand lane
of the roadway being entered lawfully available to traffic moving in that lane.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities may cause
markers, buttons, or signs to be placed within or adjacent to intersections,
and thereby require and direct that a different course from that specified in
this section be traveled by vehicles turning at an intersection, and when
markers, buttons, or signs are so placed, no operator of a vehicle shall turn
the vehicle at an intersection other than as directed and required by the
markers, buttons, or signs.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.36)
§ 72.014 U-TURNS AND TURNING IN ROADWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4511.13 and division (B) of this section,
no vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any
curve, or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade, if such vehicle
cannot be seen within 500 feet by the driver of any other vehicle approaching
from either direction.
   (B)   The driver of an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, may turn the vehicle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction. This division applies only when the emergency vehicle or
public safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle, and when the driver of the vehicle is giving an audible signal by
siren, exhaust whistle, or bell. This division does not relieve the driver of
an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.37)
§ 72.015 STARTING AND BACKING VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or
parked until the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
      (2)   Before backing, operators of vehicles shall give ample warning, and
while backing they shall exercise vigilance not to injure person or property on
the street or highway.
      (3)   No person shall back a motor vehicle on a freeway, except:
         (a)   In a rest area;
         (b)   In the performance of public works or official duties;
         (c)   As a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown
of a motor vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.38)
§ 72.016 TURN AND STOP SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall turn a vehicle or move right or left upon a
highway unless and until the person has exercised due care to ascertain that
the movement can be made with reasonable safety, nor without giving an
appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter provided.
      (2)   When required, a signal of intention to turn or move right or left
shall be given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by
the vehicle before turning, except that in the case of a person operating a
bicycle or electric bicycle, the signal shall be made not less than one time
but is not required to be continuous. A bicycle or electric bicycle operator is
not required to make a signal if the bicycle is in a designated turn lane, and
a signal shall not be given when the operator’s hands are needed for the safe
operation of the bicycle or electric bicycle.
      (3)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear, when there is opportunity to
give a signal.
      (4)   Any stop or turn signal required by this section shall be given
either by means of the hand and arm, or by signal lights that clearly indicate
to both approaching and following traffic the intention to turn or move right
or left, except that any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped
with, and the required signal shall be given by, signal lights when the
distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the left outside
limit of the body, cab or load of such motor vehicle exceeds 24 inches, or when
the distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the rear limit
of the body or load thereof exceeds 14 feet, whether a single vehicle or a
combination of vehicles.
      (5)   The signal lights required by this section shall not be flashed on
one side only on a disabled vehicle, flashed as a courtesy or “do pass” signal
to operators of other vehicles approaching from the rear, nor be flashed on one
side only of a parked vehicle except as may be necessary for compliance with
this section.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.39)
§ 72.017 HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, all signals
required by the provisions of this traffic code, when given by hand and arm,
shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in the following manner, and
the signals shall indicate as follows:
      (1)   Left turn, hand and arm extended horizontally;
      (2)   Right turn, hand and arm extended upward;
      (3)   Stop or decrease speed, hand and arm extended downward.
   (B)   As an alternative to division (A)(2) of this section, a person
operating a bicycle or electric bicycle may give a right turn signal by
extending the right hand and arm horizontally and to the right side of the
bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.40)
§ 72.018 NUISANCE OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Operate any motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe operation
or in compliance with law, in such a manner that the vehicle or its motor is so
rapidly accelerated or started from a standing position that the exhaust system
emits a loud, cracking, chattering or other noise unusual to its normal
operation, the rubber tires of such vehicle squeal or leave tire marks on the
roadway, or throw gravel or debris commonly called peeling;
      (2)   Operate any motor vehicle so as to race or accelerate the motor
while the vehicle is not in gear or in motion in such manner as to produce
unnecessary or unreasonably loud noise; or
      (3)   Operate any motor vehicle so as to race or accelerate excessively
the motor while the vehicle is in motion in such manner as to produce
unnecessary or unreasonably loud noise.
   (B)   The creation or production of noise by squealing of rubber tires, by a
cracking, chattering or clattering noise from the exhaust or the creation of
tire marks on a roadway accompanying such squealing of tires shall each be
considered prima facie evidence of an intent on the part of the operator to
violate this section.
   (C)   Whoever violates any provision of division (A) above shall be deemed
guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 19-69, passed 8-19-1969; Ord. 18-97, passed 8-11-1997; Ord. 25-02, passed
9-9-2002; Ord. 03-04, passed 2-9-2004; Ord. 02-18, passed 2-12-2018) Penalty,
see §
70.99(A)(3)
§ 72.019 OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      GOLF CART. A vehicle powered by gas or electricity and is the type of
vehicle typically operated on a golf course and includes under speed vehicles
or low speed vehicles.
      OPERATOR. Any person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
golf cart.
      OWNER. Any person or entity, other than a lien holder or dealer having
title to a golf cart or legal rights to possession thereof.
   (B)   Equipment.
      (1)   Golf carts operated on the streets, highways and public property
within the village shall have a minimum of the following functional equipment
thereon:
         (a)   At least one working rear red-colored tail light;
         (b)   License plates in the front and rear of the golf cart, bracketed
to the cart;
         (c)   A light to illuminate the rear license plate and make the plate
legible from a distance of 50 feet;
         (d)   At least one working brake light;
         (e)   Two headlights, white or clear in color;
         (f)   A horn;
         (g)   A rearview mirror;
         (h)   A windshield;
         (i)   Turn signals;
         (j)   One seat belt per occupant of the cart;
         (k)   A child safety seat installed to manufacturer specifications for
any occupant under the age of four or under 40 pounds in weight; and
         (l)   A child booster safety seat installed to manufacturer
specifications for any occupant between the ages of four and eight or four
feet, nine inches in height.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (B) shall be guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and fined not more than $100.
   (C)   Licensing requirements of operator.
      (1)   The operator of a golf cart on public roadways or on public
property in the village shall have a valid driver’s license.
      (2)   The operator of a golf cart on public roadways or on public
property in the village shall be no less than 16 years of age.
 
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (C) shall be guilty of a first
degree misdemeanor, and subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 and
imprisonment of not more than six months.
   (D)   Insurance requirements of owner and operator.
      (1)   The owner of a golf cart that is driven on public roadways or on
public property in the village shall carry liability insurance thereon as
required by the R.C. § 4509.101(A)(1).
      (2)   The operator of a golf cart that is driven on public roadways or on
public property shall have in his possession proof of insurance while operating
the golf cart.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (D) shall be guilty of a first
degree misdemeanor, and subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 and
imprisonment of not more than six months.
   (E)   Inspection and title requirements.
      (1)   No person shall operate a golf cart on public roadways or on public
property in the village without first obtaining an inspection by the Chief of
Police, the County Sheriff or the law enforcement official of another
jurisdiction within the state to ensure compliance with state laws and this
section.
      (2)   No person shall operate a golf cart on the public roadways or on
public property in the village without a certificate of inspection in his or
her possession.
      (3)   No person shall operate a golf cart on public roadways or on public
property without first obtaining a certificate of title from the Clerk of
Courts.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (E) shall be guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and fined not more than $100.
   (F)   Prohibited acts.
      (1)   No person shall operate a golf cart on public roadways or on public
property in the village without first ensuring all occupants are securely
seated in a fixed seat and wearing all available elements of a properly
adjusted safety belt that is fixed to the vehicle.
      (2)   No person, being an operator of a golf cart operated on public
roadways or on public property in the village, shall fail to wear all available
elements of a properly adjusted safety belt that is fixed to the vehicle.
      (3)   No person, being a passenger of a golf cart operated on public
roadways or on public property in the village, shall fail to wear all available
elements of a properly adjusted safety belt that is fixed to the vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall operate a golf cart on a public roadway with a
posted speed limit greater than 25 mph unless the vehicle is driven with the
right side of the golf cart being within one foot of the right curb or edge of
the roadway.
      (5)   No person shall operate a golf cart on restricted areas of the
public bicycle path, except municipal employees operating municipal vehicles in
accordance with their duties.
      (6)   Whoever violates this division (F) shall be guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and fined accordingly.
         (a)   A violation of division (F)(1), (F)(4) and (F)(5) above shall be
guilty of a minor misdemeanor and fined not more than $100.
         (b)   A violation of division (F)(2) above shall be guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and fined not more than $30.
         (c)   A violation of division (F)(3) above shall be guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and fined not more than $20.
   (G)   Accident reports.
      (1)   The owner or operator of a golf cart involved in any accident
resulting in injury or death to any person shall immediately report the
accident to the Police Department.
      (2)   The owner or operator of a golf cart involved in any accident
resulting in damage to the property of any person in excess of $100 shall
report the accident within 24 hours to the Police Department.
      (3)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a first degree
misdemeanor and subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 and imprisonment of
not more than six months.
(Ord. 09-11, passed 8-8-2011; Ord. 02-18, passed 2-12-2018)
RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 72.030 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different
streets or highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle
on the left shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (B)   The right-of-way rule declared in division (A) of this section is
modified at through highways and otherwise as stated in this traffic code or
R.C. Chapter 4511.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.41)
§ 72.031 RIGHT-OF-WAY WHEN TURNING LEFT.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an
intersection or into an alley, private road, or driveway shall yield the right-
of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within
the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.42)
§ 72.032 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT THROUGH HIGHWAYS; STOP SIGNS; YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   Except when directed to proceed by a law enforcement officer, every
driver of a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or, if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering it. After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-
way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so
closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time the driver is
moving across or within the intersection or junction of roadways.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow down to a
speed reasonable for the existing conditions, and if required for safety to
stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none, then at the
point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering it. After
slowing, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways. Whenever a driver is involved in a
collision with a vehicle in the intersection or junction of roadways, after
driving past a yield sign without stopping, the collision shall be prima facie
evidence of the driver’s failure to yield the right-of- way.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.43)
§ 72.033 STOP AT SIDEWALK AREA; STOP SIGNS ON PRIVATE ROADS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, building, private
road, or driveway within a business or residence district shall stop the
vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area
extending across the alley, building entrance, road, or driveway, or in the
event there is no sidewalk area, shall stop at the point nearest the street to
be entered where the driver has a view of approaching traffic thereon.
(R.C. § 4511.431(A))
   (B)   The owner of a private road or driveway located in a private
residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units may erect stop signs at
places where the road or driveway intersects with another private road or
driveway in the residential area, in compliance with all of the following
requirements:
      (1)   The stop sign is sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily
observant person and meets the specifications of and is placed in accordance
with the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation pursuant to R.C. §
4511.09;
      (2)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road or
driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road or
driveway that they are entering private property, stop signs have been posted
and must be obeyed, and the signs are enforceable by law enforcement officers
under state law. The sign required by this division, where appropriate, may be
incorporated with the sign required by R.C. § 4511.211(A)(2), or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   The provisions of R.C. § 4511.43(A) and R.C. § 4511.46, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be deemed to apply to the
driver of a vehicle on a private road or driveway where a stop sign is placed
in accordance with division (B) of this section and to a pedestrian crossing
such a road or driveway at an intersection where a stop sign is in place.
   (D)   When a stop sign is placed in accordance with division (B) of this
section, any law enforcement officer may apprehend a person found violating the
stop sign and may stop and charge the person with violating the stop sign.
   (E)   As used in this section, and for the purpose of applying R.C. §
4511.43(A) and R.C. § 4511.46, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, to conduct under this section:
      INTERSECTION. Means:
         (a)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two private roads or driveways which join one another at, or
approximately at, right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling
upon different private roads or driveways joining at any other angle may come
in conflict.
         (b)   Where a private road or driveway includes two roadways 30 feet
or more apart, then every crossing of two roadways of such private roads or
driveways shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
      OWNER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.211.
      PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL AREA CONTAINING 20 OR MORE DWELLING UNITS. Has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.211.
      ROADWAY. Means that portion of a private road or driveway improved,
designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder.
If a private road or driveway includes two or more separate roadways, the term
means any such roadway separately but not all such roadways collectively.
(R.C.§ 4511.432(A) - (C), (E))
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. §§ 4511.431(B), 4511.432(D))
   (G)   If the offender violates division (A) of this section while distracted
and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.431(B))
§ 72.034 RIGHT-OF-WAY ON PUBLIC HIGHWAY.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from any
place other than another roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all traffic
approaching on the roadway to be entered or crossed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender violates division (A) of this section while distracted
and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.44)
§ 72.035 PEDESTRIAN ON SIDEWALK HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian
on a sidewalk.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.441)
§ 72.036 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the approach of a public safety vehicle or coroner’s vehicle,
equipped with at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible
under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
the vehicle, and the driver is giving an audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle, or bell, no driver of any other vehicle shall fail to yield the right-
of-way, immediately drive if practical to a position parallel to, and as close
as possible to, the right edge or curb of the highway clear of any
intersection, and stop and remain in that position until the public safety
vehicle or coroner’s vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   (B)   This section does not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle or
coroner’s vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons and property upon the highway.
   (C)   This section applies to a coroner’s vehicle only when the vehicle is
operated in accordance with R.C. § 4513.171, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. As used in this section, CORONER’S VEHICLE means a vehicle
used by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator that is equipped
with a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and a siren, exhaust
whistle or bell capable of giving an audible signal.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division or division (E), whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree on a first offense. On a second offense within one year after the first
offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree, and, on
each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 4511.45)
   (E)   (1)   When the failure of a motor vehicle operator to yield the right-
of-way to a public safety vehicle as required by division (A) of this section
impedes the ability of the public safety vehicle to respond to an emergency,
any emergency personnel in the public safety vehicle may report the license
plate number and a general description of the vehicle and the operator of the
vehicle to the law enforcement agency exercising jurisdiction over the area
where the alleged violation occurred.
      (2)   (a)   Upon receipt of a report under division (E)(1) of this
section, the law enforcement agency may conduct an investigation to attempt to
determine or confirm the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation.
         (b)   If the identity of the operator at the time of an alleged
violation of division (A) of this section is established, the law enforcement
agency has probable cause to issue either a written warning or a citation for
that violation, and the agency shall issue a written warning or a citation to
the operator.
         (c)   If the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency may
issue a written warning to the person who owned the vehicle at the time of the
alleged violation. However, in the case of a leased or rented vehicle, the law
enforcement agency shall issue the written warning to the person who leased or
rented the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation.
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section based on a
report filed under division (E)(1) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and shall be fined $150.
         (b)   If a person who is issued a citation for a violation of division
(A) of this section based on a report filed under division (E)(1) of this
section does not enter a written plea of guilty and does not waive the person’s
right to contest the citation but instead appears in person in the proper court
to answer the charge, the trier of fact cannot find beyond a reasonable doubt
that the person committed that violation unless the emergency personnel who
filed the report appears in person in the court and testifies.
      (4)   As used in this division (E):
         LICENSE PLATE. Includes any temporary motor vehicle license
registration issued under R.C. § 4503.182 or similar law of another
jurisdiction.
         PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Does not include an unmarked public safety
vehicle or a vehicle used by a public law enforcement officer or other person
sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state or a vehicle used
by the motor carrier enforcement unit for the enforcement of orders and rules
of the public utilities commission.
(R.C. § 4511.454)
§ 72.037 FUNERAL PROCESSION HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   As used in this section, FUNERAL PROCESSION means two or more vehicles
accompanying the cremated remains or the body of a deceased person in the
daytime when each of the vehicles has its headlights lighted and is displaying
a purple and white or an orange and white pennant attached to each vehicle in
such a manner as to be clearly visible to traffic approaching from any
direction.
   (B)   Excepting public safety vehicles proceeding in accordance with R.C. §
4511.45 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or when directed
otherwise by a police officer, pedestrians and the operators of all vehicles
shall yield the right-of-way to each vehicle that is a part of a funeral
procession. Whenever the lead vehicle in a funeral procession lawfully enters
an intersection, the remainder of the vehicles in the procession may continue
to follow the lead vehicle through the intersection, notwithstanding any
traffic-control devices or right-of-way provisions of the Ohio Revised Code,
provided that the operator of each vehicle exercises due care to avoid
colliding with any other vehicle or pedestrian.
   (C)   No person shall operate any vehicle as a part of a funeral procession
without having the headlights of the vehicle lighted and without displaying a
purple and white or an orange and white pennant in such a manner as to be
clearly visible to traffic approaching from any direction.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.451)
§ 72.038 PEDESTRIANS YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY TO PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of a public safety vehicle, as stated in
R.C. § 4511.45 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, every
pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to the public safety vehicle.
   (B)   This section shall not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle
from the duty to exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.452)
§ 72.039 PEDESTRIAN ON CROSSWALK HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   When traffic-control signals are not in place, not in operation, or
are not clearly assigning the right-of-way, the driver of a vehicle shall yield
the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if need be to so yield, or if
required by R.C. § 4511.132 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is
upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling, or when the
pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite half of the roadway as
to be in danger.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply under the conditions
stated in R.C. § 4511.48(B), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (E), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (F)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.46)
§ 72.040 RIGHT-OF-WAY YIELDED TO BLIND PERSON.
   (A)   (1)   As used in this section BLIND PERSON or BLIND PEDESTRIAN means a
person having not more than 20/200 visual acuity in the better eye with
correcting lenses, or visual acuity greater than 20/200, but with a limitation
in the fields of vision such that the widest diameter of the visual field
subtends an angle no greater than 20 degrees.
      (2)   The driver of every vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to every
blind pedestrian guided by a guide dog, or carrying a cane which is
predominantly white or metallic in color, with or without a red tip.
   (B)   No person, other than a blind person, while on any public highway,
street, alley, or other public thoroughfare, shall carry a white or metallic
cane, with or without a red tip.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.47)
§ 72.041 RIGHT-OF-WAY YIELDED BY PEDESTRIAN.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all traffic upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
   (D)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic- control devices; and when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic-control devices pertaining to such crossing movements.
   (E)   This section does not relieve the operator of a vehicle from
exercising due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway.
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.48)
PEDESTRIANS
§ 72.055 PEDESTRIAN MOVEMENT IN CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.49)
§ 72.056 PEDESTRIAN WALKING ALONG HIGHWAY.
   (A)   Where a sidewalk is provided and its use is practicable, it shall be
unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where a sidewalk is not available, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall walk only on a shoulder, as far as practicable from the
edge of the roadway.
   (C)   Where neither a sidewalk nor a shoulder is available, any pedestrian
walking along and upon a highway shall walk as near as practicable to an
outside edge of the roadway, and, if on a two-way roadway, shall walk only on
the left side of the roadway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. §§ 4511.13 and 4511.46, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, any pedestrian upon a roadway
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.50)
§ 72.057 PROHIBITION AGAINST SOLICITING RIDES; RIDING ON OUTSIDE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person while on a roadway outside a safety zone shall solicit a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, no person
shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting employment, business, or
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle.
      (2)   The Legislative Authority, by ordinance, may authorize the issuance
of a permit to a charitable organization to allow a person acting on behalf of
the organization to solicit charitable contributions from the occupant of a
vehicle by standing on a highway, other than a freeway as provided in R.C. §
4511.051(A)(1), that is under the jurisdiction of the municipality. The permit
shall be valid for only one period of time, which shall be specified in the
permit, in any calendar year. The Legislative Authority also may specify the
locations where contributions may be solicited and may impose any other
restrictions on or requirements regarding the manner in which the solicitations
are to be conducted that the Legislative Authority considers advisable.
      (3)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section, CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION
means an organization that has received from the Internal Revenue Service a
currently valid ruling or determination letter recognizing the tax-exempt
status of the organization pursuant to IRC § 501(c)(3).
   (C)   No person shall hang onto or ride on the outside of any motor vehicle
while it is moving upon a roadway, except mechanics or test engineers making
repairs or adjustments, or workers performing specialized highway or street
maintenance or construction under authority of a public agency.
   (D)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person to hang onto or ride on
the outside of any motor vehicle while it is moving upon a roadway, except
mechanics or test engineers making repairs or adjustments, or workers
performing specialized highway or street maintenance or construction under
authority of a public agency.
   (E)   No driver of a truck, trailer, or semitrailer shall knowingly permit
any person who has not attained the age of 16 years to ride in the unenclosed
or unroofed cargo storage area of the driver’s vehicle if the vehicle is
traveling faster than 25 mph, unless either of the following applies:
      (1)   The cargo storage area of the vehicle is equipped with a properly
secured seat to which is attached a seat safety belt that is in compliance with
federal standards for an occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. §
4513.263(A)(2), the seat and seat safety belt were installed at the time the
vehicle was originally assembled, and the person riding in the cargo storage
area is in the seat and is wearing the seat safety belt; or
      (2)   An emergency exists that threatens the life of the driver or the
person being transported in the cargo storage area of the truck, trailer, or
semitrailer.
   (F)   No driver of a truck, trailer, or semitrailer shall permit any person,
except for those workers performing specialized highway or street maintenance
or construction under authority of a public agency, to ride in the cargo
storage area or on a tailgate of the driver’s vehicle while the tailgate is
unlatched.
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
any provision of divisions (A) through (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates any provision of divisions (A) through (D) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates any provision of
divisions (A) through (D) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (E) or (F) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.51)
§ 72.058 PEDESTRIAN ON BRIDGE OR RAILROAD CROSSING.
   (A)   No pedestrian shall enter or remain upon any bridge or approach
thereto beyond the bridge signal, gate, or barrier after a bridge operation
signal indication has been given.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over, or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while the gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.511)
§ 72.059 PERSONS OPERATING MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIRS.
   Every person operating a motorized wheelchair shall have all of the rights
and duties applicable to a pedestrian that are contained in this chapter,
except those provisions which by their nature can have no application.
(R.C. § 4511.491)
§ 72.060 INTOXICATED OR DRUGGED PEDESTRIAN HAZARD ON HIGHWAY.
   (A)   A pedestrian who is under the influence of alcohol, any drug of abuse,
or any combination of them to a degree that renders the pedestrian a hazard
shall not walk or be upon a highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.481)
§ 72.061 OPERATION OF ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Electric personal assistive mobility devices may be operated on
the public streets, highways, sidewalks, and paths and portions of roadways set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this Traffic Code that by their nature are applicable to an electric personal
assistive mobility device apply to the device and the person operating it
whenever it is operated upon any public street, highway, sidewalk, or path or
upon any portion of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
      (3)   The municipality may regulate or prohibit the operation of electric
personal assistive mobility devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks, and
paths, or portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles,
under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   No operator of an electric personal assistive mobility device shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians and human-powered
vehicles at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         (a)   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet;
         (b)   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle;
      (4)   Operate the device on any portion of a street or highway that has
an established speed limit of 55 mph or more;
      (5)   Operate the device upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of
pedestrians or other specialized use when an appropriate sign giving notice of
the specialized use is posted on the path;
      (6)   If under 18 years of age, operate the device unless wearing a
protective helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened;
      (7)   If under 16 years of age, operate the device unless, during the
operation, the person is under the direct visual and audible supervision of
another person who is 18 years of age or older and is responsible for the
immediate care of the person under 16 years of age.
   (C)   No person who is under 14 years of age shall operate an electric
personal assistive mobility device.
   (D)   No person shall distribute or sell an electric personal assistive
mobility device unless the device is accompanied by a written statement that is
substantially equivalent to the following: “WARNING: TO REDUCE THE RISK OF
SERIOUS INJURY, USE ONLY WHILE WEARING FULL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT – HELMET,
WRIST GUARDS, ELBOW PADS, AND KNEE PADS”.
   (E)   Nothing in this section affects or shall be construed to affect any
rule of the Director of Natural Resources or a board of park district
commissioners governing the operation of vehicles on lands under the control of
the Director or board, as applicable.
   (F)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (B) or (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor and shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   The offender shall be fined $10;
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (B) or (C) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to imposing
the fine required under division (F)(1)(a) of this section, shall do one of the
following:
            1.   Order the impoundment for not less than one day but not more
than 30 days of the electric personal assistive mobility device that was
involved in the current violation of that division. The court shall order the
device to be impounded at a safe indoor location designated by the court and
may assess storage fees of not more than $5 per day; provided the total
storage, processing, and release fees assessed against the offender or the
device in connection with the device’s impoundment or subsequent release shall
not exceed $50.
            2.    If the court does not issue an impoundment order pursuant to
division (F)(1)(b)1. of this section, issue an order prohibiting the offender
from operating any electric personal assistive mobility device on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks, and paths and portions of roadways set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles for not less than one day but not more than 30
days.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.512)
   (G)   As used in this code, ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE
means a self- balancing two non-tandem wheeled device that is designed to
transport only one person, has an electric propulsion system of an average of
750 watts, and when ridden on a paved level surface by an operator who weighs
170 pounds has a maximum speed of less than 20 mph.
(R.C. § 4501.01(TT))
§ 72.062 OPERATION OF PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE ON SIDEWALKS AND CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ELIGIBLE ENTITY. Means a corporation, partnership, association, firm,
sole proprietorship, or other entity engaged in business.
      PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE. Means an electrically powered device to which
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The device is intended primarily to transport property and cargo
on sidewalks and crosswalks.
         (b)   The device weighs less than 250 pounds excluding any property or
cargo being carried in the device.
         (c)   The device has a maximum speed of ten mph.
         (d)   The device is equipped with technology that enables the
operation of the device with active control or monitoring by a person, without
active control or monitoring by a person, or both with or without active
control or monitoring by a person.
      PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE OPERATOR. Means an agent of an eligible entity
who exercises direct physical control over, or monitoring of, the navigation
and operation of a personal delivery device. The phrase does not include, with
respect to a delivery or other service rendered by a personal delivery device,
the person who requests the delivery or service. The phrase also does not
include a person who only arranges for and dispatches a personal delivery
device for a delivery or other service.
   (B)   An eligible entity may operate a personal delivery device on sidewalks
and crosswalks so long as all of the following requirements are met:
      (1)   The personal delivery device is operated in accordance with all
regulations, if any, established by each local authority within which the
personal delivery device is operated.
      (2)   A personal delivery device operator is actively controlling or
monitoring the navigation and operation of the personal delivery device.
      (3)   The eligible entity maintains an insurance policy that includes
general liability coverage of not less than $100,000 for damages arising from
the operation of the personal delivery device by the eligible entity and any
agent of the eligible entity.
      (4)   The device is equipped with all of the following:
         (a)   A marker that clearly identifies the name and contact
information of the eligible entity operating the personal delivery device and a
unique identification number;
         (b)   A braking system that enables the personal delivery device to
come to a controlled stop;
         (c)   If the personal delivery device is being operated between sunset
and sunrise, a light on both the front and rear of the personal delivery device
that is visible in clear weather from a distance of at least 500 feet to the
front and rear of the personal delivery device when directly in front of low
beams of headlights on a motor vehicle.
   (C)   No personal delivery device operator shall allow a personal delivery
device to do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with traffic or pedestrian control devices and
signals;
      (2)   Unreasonably interfere with pedestrians or traffic;
      (3)   Transport any hazardous material that would require a permit issued
by the Public Utilities Commission;
      (4)   Operate on a street or highway, except when crossing the street or
highway within a crosswalk.
   (D)   A personal delivery device has all of the rights and obligations
applicable to a pedestrian under the same circumstances, except that a personal
delivery device shall yield the right-of-way to human pedestrians on sidewalks
and crosswalks.
   (E)   (1)   No person shall operate a personal delivery device unless the
person is authorized to do so under this section and complies with the
requirements of this section.
      (2)   An eligible entity is responsible for both of the following:
         (a)   Any violation of this section that is committed by a personal
delivery device operator; and
         (b)   Any other circumstance, including a technological malfunction,
in which a personal delivery device operates in a manner prohibited by
divisions (C)(1) to (C)(4) of this section.
(R.C. § 4511.513) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.063 LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   A low-speed micromobility device may be operated on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks, and shared-use paths, and may be operated on any
portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance
with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this title that by their nature could apply to a low-speed micromobility device
do apply to the device and the person operating it whenever it is operated upon
any public street, highway, sidewalk, or shared-use path, or upon any portion
of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (B)   No operator of a low-speed micromobility device shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         (a)   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet;
         (b)   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   No person who is under 16 years of age shall rent a low-speed
micromobility device.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device to
a person who is under 16 years of age.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device on
behalf of a person who is under 16 years of age.
   (D)   No person shall operate a low-speed micromobility device at a speed
greater than 20 miles per hour.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Unless a mens rea is otherwise specified in this section, an
offense established under this section is a strict liability offense and R.C. §
2901.20 does not apply. The designation of that offense as a strict liability
offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for which there
is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
   (F)   Notwithstanding division (A)(1) of this section, the municipality,
county, township, metropolitan park district, township park district,
recreation district, or any division of the Ohio Department of Natural
Resources if the division has the approval of the Ohio Director of Natural
Resources may do any of the following:
      (1)   Regulate or prohibit the operation of low-speed micromobility
devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks, and shared-use paths, and
portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, under its
jurisdiction;
      (2)   Include low-speed micromobility devices that are adapted to expand
access for people with various physical limitations into a shared bicycle,
shared electric bicycle, or similar vehicle sharing program, under its
jurisdiction;
      (3)   Require the owner or operator of a low-speed micromobility device
rental service or low-speed micromobility device sharing program to maintain
commercial general liability insurance related to the operation of the devices,
with limits of up to $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 per aggregate.
(R.C. § 4511.514) Penalty, see §
70.99
GRADE CROSSINGS
§ 72.075 STOP SIGNS AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   As used in this section, ACTIVE GRADE CROSSING WARNING DEVICE means
signs, signals, gates, or other protective devices erected or installed at a
public highway-railway crossing at common grade and activated by an electrical
circuit.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities, with the
approval of the Department, may designate dangerous highway crossings over
railroad tracks and erect stop signs thereat.
   (C)   (1)   The Department and local authorities shall erect stop signs at a
railroad highway grade crossing in either of the following circumstances:
         (a)   New warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning
devices are being installed at the grade crossing, and railroad crossbucks were
the only warning devices at the grade crossing prior to the installation of the
new warning devices.
         (b)   The grade crossing is constructed after July 1, 2013, and only
warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning devices are
installed at the grade crossing.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a railroad
highway grade crossing that the Director of Transportation has exempted from
that division because of traffic flow or other considerations or factors.
   (D)   When stop signs are erected pursuant to division (B) or (C) of this
section, the operator of any vehicle shall stop within 50, but not less than
15, feet from the nearest rail of the railroad tracks and shall exercise due
care before proceeding across such grade crossing.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (F)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.61)
§ 72.076 DRIVING VEHICLE ACROSS RAILROAD GRADE CROSSING.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad
grade crossing, the person shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet
from the nearest rail of the railroad if any of the following circumstances
exist at the crossing:
         (a)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a train.
         (b)   A crossing gate is lowered.
         (c)   A flagperson gives or continues to give a signal of the approach
or passage of a train.
         (d)   There is insufficient space on the other side of the railroad
grade crossing to accommodate the vehicle the person is operating without
obstructing the passage of other vehicles, pedestrians or railroad trains,
notwithstanding any traffic-control signal indication to proceed.
         (e)   An approaching train is emitting an audible signal or is plainly
visible, and is in hazardous proximity to the crossing.
         (f)   There is insufficient undercarriage clearance to safely
negotiate the crossing.
      (2)   A person who is driving a vehicle and who approaches a railroad
grade crossing shall not proceed as long as any of the circumstances described
in divisions (A)(1)(a) through (A)(1)(f) of this section exist at the crossing.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around, or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while the gate or barrier is
closed, or is being opened or closed unless the person is signaled by a law
enforcement officer or flagperson that it is permissible to do so.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.62)
§ 72.077 VEHICLES REQUIRED TO STOP AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the operator of
any bus, any school vehicle, or any vehicle transporting material required to
be placarded under 49 C.F.R. parts 100 through 185, before crossing at grade
any track of a railroad, shall stop the vehicle, and while so stopped, shall
listen through an open door or open window, and look in both directions along
the track for any approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of
a train, and shall proceed only upon exercising due care after stopping,
looking, and listening as required by this section. Upon proceeding, the
operator of such a vehicle shall cross only in a gear that will ensure there
will be no necessity for changing gears while traversing the crossing, and
shall not shift gears while crossing the tracks.
   (B)   This section does not apply at grade crossings when any local
authority has filed an application with the Public Utilities Commission
requesting the approval of an exempt crossing, and the Public Utilities
Commission has authorized and approved an exempt crossing as provided in R.C. §
4511.63(B).
   (C)   As used in this section:
      BUS. Means any vehicle originally designed by its manufacturer to
transport 16 or more passengers, including the driver, or carries 16 or more
passengers, including the driver.
      EXEMPT CROSSING. Means a highway rail grade crossing authorized and
approved by the Public Utilities Commission under R.C. § 4511.63(B) at which
vehicles may cross without making the stop otherwise required by this section.
      SCHOOL VEHICLE. Means any vehicle used for the transportation of pupils
to and from a school or school-related function if the vehicle is owned or
operated by, or operated under contract with, a public or nonpublic school.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or 4511.79, or
a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of those
sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.63)
§ 72.078 SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES OR EQUIPMENT CROSSING RAILROAD TRACKS.
   (A)   No person shall operate or move any crawler-type tractor, steam
shovel, derrick, roller, or any equipment or structure having a normal
operating speed of six or less miles per hour or a vertical body or load
clearance of less than nine inches above the level surface of a roadway, upon
or across any tracks at a railroad grade crossing without first complying with
divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) of this section.
      (1)   Before making any such crossing, the person operating or moving any
such vehicle or equipment shall first stop the same, and while stopped, the
person shall listen and look in both directions along the track for any
approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of a train, and shall
proceed only upon exercising due care.
      (2)   No such crossing shall be made when warning is given by automatic
signal, crossing gates, or a flagperson, or otherwise of the immediate approach
of a railroad train or car.
   (B)   If the normal sustained speed of the vehicle, equipment, or structure
is not more than three mph, the person owning, operating, or moving the same
shall also give notice of the intended crossing to a station agent or
superintendent of the railroad, and a reasonable time shall be given to the
railroad to provide proper protection for the crossing. Where the vehicles or
equipment are being used in constructing or repairing a section of highway
lying on both sides of a railroad grade crossing, and in this construction or
repair it is necessary to repeatedly move the vehicles or equipment over the
crossing, one daily notice specifying when the work will start and stating the
hours during which it will be prosecuted is sufficient.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.64)
SCHOOL BUSES
§ 72.090 REGULATIONS CONCERNING SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle, upon meeting or overtaking from either
direction any school bus stopped for the purpose of receiving or discharging
any school child, person attending programs offered by community boards of
mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child
attending a program offered by a head start agency, shall stop at least ten
feet from the front or rear of the school bus and shall not proceed until such
school bus resumes motion, or until signaled by the school bus driver to
proceed. It is no defense to a charge under this division that the school bus
involved failed to display or be equipped with an automatically extended stop
warning sign as required by division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Every school bus shall be equipped with amber and red visual signals
meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.771 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type
approved by the state Board of Education, which shall be actuated by the driver
of the bus whenever but only whenever the bus is stopped or stopping on the
roadway for the purpose of receiving or discharging school children, persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities, or children attending programs offered by
head start agencies. A school bus driver shall not actuate the visual signals
or the stop warning sign in designated school bus loading areas where the bus
is entirely off the roadway or at school buildings when children or persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities are loading or unloading at curbside or at
buildings when children attending programs offered by head start agencies are
loading or unloading at curbside. The visual signals and stop warning sign
shall be synchronized or otherwise operated as required by rule of the Board.
   (C)   Where a highway has been divided into four or more traffic lanes, a
driver of a vehicle need not stop for a school bus approaching from the
opposite direction which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or
discharging any school child, persons attending programs offered by community
boards of mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or
children attending programs offered by head start agencies. The driver of any
vehicle overtaking the school bus shall comply with division (A) above.
   (D)   School buses operating on divided highways or on highways with four or
more traffic lanes shall receive and discharge all school children, persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities, and children attending programs offered
by head start agencies on their residence side of the highway.
   (E)   No school bus driver shall start the driver’s bus until after any
child, person attending programs offered by community boards of mental health
and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child attending a program
offered by a head start agency who may have alighted therefrom has reached a
place of safety on the child’s or person’s residence side of the road.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section may be fined an
amount not to exceed $500. A person who is issued a citation for a violation of
division (A) of this section is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty
and waive the person’s right to contest the citation in a trial but instead
must appear in person in the proper court to answer the charge.
      (2)   In addition to and independent of any other penalty provided by
law, the court or mayor may impose upon an offender who violates this section a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7). When a
license is suspended under this section, the court or mayor shall cause the
offender to deliver the license to the court, and the court or clerk of the
court immediately shall forward the license to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles,
together with notice of the court’s action.
   (G)   As used in this section:
      HEAD START AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3301.32.
      SCHOOL BUS. As used in relation to children who attend a program offered
by a head start agency, means a bus that is owned and operated by a head start
agency, is equipped with an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type
approved by the State Board of Education, is painted the color and displays the
markings described in R.C. § 4511.77, and is equipped with amber and red visual
signals meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.77, irrespective of whether or
not the bus has 15 or more children aboard at any time. The term does not
include a van owned and operated by a head start agency, irrespective of its
color, lights or markings.
(R.C. § 4511.75)
§ 72.091 VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS; REPORT; INVESTIGATION; CITATION; WARNING.
   (A)   As used in this section, LICENSE PLATE includes but is not limited to
any temporary license placard issued under R.C. § 4503.182 or substantially
equivalent law of another jurisdiction.
   (B)   When the operator of a school bus believes that a motorist has
violated R.C. § 4511.75(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
the operator shall report the license plate number and general description of
the vehicle and of the operator of the vehicle to the law enforcement agency
exercising jurisdiction over the area where the alleged violation occurred. The
information contained in the report relating to the license plate number and to
the general description of the vehicle and the operator of the vehicle at the
time of the alleged violation may be supplied by any person with first-hand
knowledge of the information. Information of which the operator of the school
bus has first-hand knowledge also may be corroborated by any other person.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the report of the alleged violation of R.C. § 4511.75
(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the law enforcement
agency shall conduct an investigation to attempt to determine the identity of
the operator of the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation. If the
identity of the operator at the time of the alleged violation is established,
the reporting of the license plate number of the vehicle shall establish
probable cause for the law enforcement agency to issue a citation for the
violation of R.C. § 4511.75(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. However, if the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time
of the alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency
shall issue a warning to the owner of the vehicle at the time of the alleged
violation, except in the case of a leased or rented vehicle when the warning
shall be issued to the lessee at the time of the alleged violation.
(R.C. § 4511.751)
§ 72.092 RESTRICTIONS ON THE OPERATION OF SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle used for pupil transportation within
this municipality in violation of the rules of the Department of Education of
the Department of Public Safety. No person, being the owner thereof, or having
the supervisory responsibility therefor, shall permit the operation of a
vehicle used for pupil transportation within this municipality in violation of
the rules of the Department of Education or the Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   As used in this section, VEHICLE USED FOR PUPIL TRANSPORTATION means
any vehicle that is identified as such by the Department of Education by rule
and that is subject to O.A.C. Chapter 3301-83.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.76, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.76(C), (F), (G))
§ 72.093 SCHOOL BUS INSPECTION.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof,
or having supervisory responsibility therefor, permit the operation of, a
school bus within this municipality, unless there is displayed thereon the
decals issued by the state highway patrol bearing the proper date of inspection
for the calendar year for which the inspection decals were issued.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.761, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (C)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation, issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.761)
§ 72.094 SCHOOL BUS NOT USED FOR SCHOOL PURPOSES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no person who is
the owner of a bus that previously was registered as a school bus that is used
or is to be used exclusively for purposes other than the transportation of
children shall operate the bus or permit it to be operated within this
municipality unless the bus has been painted a color different from that
prescribed for school buses by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance and painted in such a way that the words “stop” and “school
bus” are obliterated.
   (B)   Any church bus that previously was registered as a school bus and is
registered under R.C. § 4503.07 may retain the paint color prescribed for
school buses by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance if the bus complies with all of the following:
      (1)   The words “school bus” required by R.C. § 4511.77 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance are covered or obliterated and the
bus is marked on the front and rear with the words “church bus” painted in
black lettering not less than ten inches in height.
      (2)   The automatically extending stop warning sign required by R.C. §
4511.75 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance is removed and the
word “stop” required by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance is covered or obliterated.
      (3)   The flashing red and amber lights required by R.C. § 4511.771 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance are covered or removed.
      (4)   The inspection decal required by R.C. § 4511.761 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance is covered or removed.
      (5)   The identification number assigned under R.C. § 4511.764 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance and marked in black lettering on
the front and rear of the bus is covered or obliterated.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.762, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (D)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation, issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.762)
§ 72.095 LICENSING BY DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY.
   (A)   No person, partnership, association, or corporation shall transport
pupils to or from school on a school bus or enter into a contract with a board
of education of any school district for the transportation of pupils on a
school bus without being licensed by the Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.763)
§ 72.096 REGISTRATION AND IDENTIFICATION OF SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof
or having supervisory responsibility therefor, permit the operation of a school
bus within this municipality unless there is displayed thereon an identifying
number in accordance with R.C. § 4511.764.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of R.C. § 4511.63,
4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.77, or 4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that
is substantially equivalent to any of those sections, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.764)
§ 72.097 SCHOOL BUS MARKING.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof
or having supervisory responsibility therefor permit the operation of, a school
bus within this municipality unless it is painted national school bus yellow
and is marked on both front and rear with the words “school bus” in black
lettering not less than eight inches in height and on the rear of the bus with
the word “stop” in black lettering not less than ten inches in height.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.77, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (C)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend, for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.77)
§ 72.098 FLASHING LIGHT SIGNAL LAMPS.
   (A)   Every school bus shall, in addition to any other equipment and
distinctive markings required pursuant to R.C. §§ 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.764
and 4511.77, and any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, be equipped
with signal lamps mounted as high as practicable, which shall display to the
front two alternately flashing red lights and two alternately flashing amber
lights located at the same level and to the rear two alternately flashing red
lights and alternately flashing amber lights located at the same level, and
these lights shall be visible at 500 feet in normal sunlight. The alternately
flashing red lights shall be spaced as widely as practicable, and the
alternately flashing amber lights shall be located next to them.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.771)
§ 72.099 OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE FOR OPERATOR.
   (A)   On and after May 6, 1986, no person, school board, or governmental
entity shall purchase, lease, or rent a new school bus unless the school bus
has an occupant restraining device, as defined in R.C. § 4513.263, installed
for use in its operator’s seat.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.772)
PROHIBITIONS
§ 72.115 OBSTRUCTION AND INTERFERENCE AFFECTING VIEW AND CONTROL OF DRIVER.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such number of persons, as to obstruct the view of the
driver to the front or sides of the vehicle, or to interfere with the driver’s
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in a position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with the driver’s
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.70)
§ 72.116 OCCUPYING TRAVEL TRAILER WHILE IN MOTION.
   (A)   No person shall occupy any travel trailer or manufactured or mobile
home while it is being used as a conveyance upon a street or highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.701)
§ 72.117 DRIVING UPON CLOSED HIGHWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall drive upon, along, or across a street or highway, or
any part of a street or highway that has been closed in the process of its
construction, reconstruction, or repair, and posted with appropriate signs by
the authority having jurisdiction to close the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.71(A))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on or onto a public street or
highway that is temporarily covered by a rise in water level, including
groundwater or an overflow of water, and that is clearly marked by a sign that
specifies that the road is closed due to the rise in water level and that any
person who uses the closed portion of the road may be fined up to $2,000.
      (2)   A person who is issued a citation for a violation of division (B)
(1) of this section is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty and
waive the person’s right to contest the citation in court, but instead must
appear in person in the proper court to answer the charge.
(R.C. § 4511.714(A), (B))
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If,
within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of
or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
         (b)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.71(B))
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required
under R.C. § 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required under
any provision of law, the court imposing the sentence upon an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (B) of this section
shall order the offender to reimburse one or more rescuers for the cost any
such rescuer incurred in rescuing the person, excluding any cost of
transporting the rescued person to a hospital or other facility for treatment
of injuries, up to a cumulative maximum of $2,000. If more than one rescuer was
involved in the emergency response, the court shall allocate the reimbursement
proportionately, according to the cost each rescuer incurred. A financial
sanction imposed under this section is a judgment in favor of the rescuer and,
subject to a determination of indigency under R.C. § 2929.28(B), a rescuer may
collect the financial sanction in the same manner as provided in R.C. §
2929.28.
(R.C. § 4511.714(C))
   (D)   As used in this section:
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE ORGANIZATION. Has the same meanings as in R.C.
§ 9.60.
      FIREFIGHTING AGENCY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 9.60.
      PRIVATE FIRE COMPANY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 9.60.
      RESCUER. Means a state agency, political subdivision, firefighting
agency, private fire company, or emergency medical service organization.
(R.C. § 4511.714(D))
§ 72.118 DRIVING UPON SIDEWALK AREA OR PATHS EXCLUSIVELY FOR BICYCLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall drive any vehicle, other than a bicycle or an
electric bicycle if the motor is not engaged, upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area,
except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway.
      (2)   This prohibition does not apply to a law enforcement officer, or
other person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state, using
an electric bicycle with the motor engaged while in the performance of the
officer's duties.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting local
authorities from regulating the operation of bicycles or electric bicycles,
except that no local authority may require that bicycles or electric bicycles
be operated on sidewalks.
(R.C. § 4511.711(A))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, snowmobile, or all-
purpose vehicle upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, when
an appropriate sign giving notice of such use is posted on the path.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect any rule of
the Director of Natural Resources governing the operation of motor vehicles,
snowmobiles, all-purpose vehicles, and bicycles on lands under the Director’s
jurisdiction.
(R.C. § 4511.713(A))
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.711(B), 4511.713(B))
§ 72.119 OBSTRUCTING PASSAGE OF OTHER VEHICLES.
   (A)   No driver shall enter an intersection or marked crosswalk, or drive
onto any railroad grade crossing, unless there is sufficient space on the other
side of the intersection, crosswalk, or grade crossing to accommodate the
vehicle the driver is operating without obstructing the passage of other
vehicles, pedestrians, or railroad trains, notwithstanding any traffic-control
signal indication to proceed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.712)
§ 72.120 FOLLOWING AN EMERGENCY OR PUBLIC VEHICLE PROHIBITED; APPROACHING
STATIONARY PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE AND CERTAIN OTHER VEHICLES WITH CAUTION.
   (A)   Following an emergency or public vehicle prohibited. The driver of any
vehicle, other than an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle on official
business, shall not follow any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle
traveling in response to an alarm closer than 500 feet, or drive into or park
the vehicle within the block where the fire apparatus has stopped in answer to
a fire alarm, unless directed to do so by a police officer or a firefighter.
(R.C. § 4511.72(A))
   (B)   Approaching stationary public safety vehicle with caution.
      (1)   The driver of a motor vehicle, upon approaching a stationary public
safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste collection
vehicle, vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor
vehicle inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a
highway maintenance vehicle that is displaying the appropriate visual signals
by means of flashing, oscillating, or rotating lights, as prescribed in R.C. §
4513.17, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   If the driver of the motor vehicle is traveling on a highway
that consists of at least two lanes that carry traffic in the same direction of
travel as that of the driver’s motor vehicle, the driver shall proceed with due
caution and, if possible and with due regard to the road, weather, and traffic
conditions, shall change lanes into a lane that is not adjacent to that of the
stationary public safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle,
waste collection vehicle, vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to
conduct motor vehicle inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and
4923.06, or a highway maintenance vehicle.
         (b)   If the driver is not traveling on a highway of a type described
in division (B)(1)(a) of this section, or if the driver is traveling on a
highway of that type but it is not possible to change lanes or if to do so
would be unsafe, the driver shall proceed with due caution, reduce the speed of
the motor vehicle, and maintain a safe speed for the road, weather, and traffic
conditions.
      (2)   This division (B) does not relieve the driver of a public safety
vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste collection vehicle,
vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor vehicle
inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a highway
maintenance vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of
all persons and property upon the highway.
      (3)   No person shall fail to drive a motor vehicle in compliance with
divisions (B)(1)(a) or (B)(1)(b) of this section when so required by division
(B) of this section.
(R.C. § 4511.213(A) - (C))
   (C)   Penalty.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding §
130.99 or R.C. § 2929.28, upon a finding that a person operated a motor vehicle
in violation of division (B)(3) of this section, the court, in addition to all
other penalties provided by law, shall impose a fine of two times the usual
amount imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.213(D), 4511.72(B))
   (D)   The offense established under division (B) of this section is a strict
liability offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this
offense as a strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any
other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a
strict liability offense.
(R.C. §§ 4511.213(E))
§ 72.121 DRIVING OVER UNPROTECTED FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall, without the consent of the fire department official
in command, be driven over any unprotected hose of a fire department that is
laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or alarm of
fire.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.73)
§ 72.122 PLACING INJURIOUS MATERIAL ON HIGHWAY OR DEPOSITING LITTER FROM MOTOR
VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a
highway, lane, road, street, or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails,
or other articles which may damage or injure any person, vehicle, or animal
traveling along or upon the highway, except such substances that may be placed
upon the roadway by proper authority for the repair or construction thereof.
      (2)   Any person who drops or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
highway any destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove the
same.
      (3)   Any person authorized to remove a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a
highway shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the
highway from such vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall place any obstruction in or upon a highway without
proper authority.
   (B)   No person, with intent to cause physical harm to a person or a
vehicle, shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a highway, lane, road,
street, or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails, or other articles
which may damage or injure any person, vehicle, or animal traveling along or
upon such highway, except such substances that may be placed upon the roadway
by proper authority for the repair or construction thereof.
(R.C. § 4511.74(A), (B))
   (C)   No operator or occupant of a motor vehicle shall, regardless of
intent, throw, drop, discard, or deposit litter from any motor vehicle in
operation upon any street, road, or highway, except into a litter receptacle in
a manner that prevents its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (D)   No operator of a motor vehicle in operation upon any street, road, or
highway shall allow litter to be thrown, dropped, discarded, or deposited from
the motor vehicle, except into a litter receptacle in a manner that prevents
its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (E)   As used in this section, LITTER means garbage, trash, waste, rubbish,
ashes, cans, bottles, wire, paper, cartons, boxes, automobile parts, furniture,
glass, or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
(R.C. § 4511.82(A), (B), (D))
   (F)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4511.74(C))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.82(C))
§ 72.123 TRANSPORTING CHILD NOT IN CHILD RESTRAINT SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly secured in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child
restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age;
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (B)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab, that is owned,
leased, or otherwise under the control of a nursery school or day-care center,
the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child properly secured in
accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child restraint system
that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age;
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (C)   When any child who is less than eight years of age and less than four
feet nine inches in height, who is not required by division (A) or (B) of this
section to be secured in a child restraint system, is being transported in a
motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01 or a vehicle that is regulated under R.C. § 5104.015, that is
required by the United States Department of Transportation to be equipped with
seat belts at the time of manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor
vehicle shall have the child properly secured in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions on a booster seat that meets federal motor vehicle
safety standards.
   (D)   When any child who is at least eight years of age but not older than
15 years of age, and who is not otherwise required by division (A), (B), or (C)
of this section to be secured in a child restraint system or booster seat, is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly restrained either in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions
in a child restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards
or in an occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. § 4513.263.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause an operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section or causing the
arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of division
(C) or (D) of this section, and absent another violation of law, a law
enforcement officer’s view of the interior or visual inspection of a motor
vehicle being operated on any street or highway may not be used for the purpose
of determining whether a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section has
been or is being committed.
   (F)   The Director of Public Safety shall adopt such rules as are necessary
to carry out this section.
   (G)   The failure of an operator of a motor vehicle to secure a child in a
child restraint system, a booster seat, or an occupant restraining device as
required in this section is not negligence imputable to the child, is not
admissible as evidence in any civil action involving the rights of the child
against any other person allegedly liable for injuries to the child, is not to
be used as a basis for a criminal prosecution of the operator of the motor
vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section, and is not
admissible as evidence in any criminal action involving the operator of the
motor vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
   (H)   This section does not apply when an emergency exists that threatens
the life of any person operating or occupying a motor vehicle that is being
used to transport a child who otherwise would be required to be restrained
under this section. This section does not apply to a person operating a motor
vehicle who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4731 or a chiropractor licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4734 that states that the child who otherwise would be
required to be restrained under this section has a physical impairment that
makes use of a child restraint system, booster seat, or an occupant restraining
device impossible or impractical, provided that the person operating the
vehicle has safely and appropriately restrained the child in accordance with
any recommendations of the physician or chiropractor as noted on the affidavit.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any person to
carry with the person the birth certificate of a child to prove the age of the
child, but the production of a valid birth certificate for a child showing that
the child was not of an age to which this section applies is a defense against
any ticket, citation, or summons issued for violating this section.
   (J)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section
shall be punished as follows, provided that the failure of an operator of a
motor vehicle to secure more than one child in a child restraint system,
booster seat, or occupant restraining device as required by this section that
occurred at the same time, on the same day, and at the same location is deemed
to be a single violation of this section:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (J)(1)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not
less than $25 nor more than $75.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section or of a
state law or municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent any of those
divisions, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   All fines imposed pursuant to division (J)(1) of this section shall
be forwarded to the State Treasurer for deposit in the Child Highway Safety
Fund created by R.C. § 4511.81(I).
(R.C. § 4511.81(A) - (H), (K), (L))
§ 72.124 OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICES.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      AUTOMOBILE. Means any commercial tractor, passenger car, commercial car,
or truck that is required to be factory-equipped with an occupant restraining
device for the operator or any passenger by regulations adopted by the United
States Secretary of Transportation pursuant to the “National Traffic and Motor
Vehicle Safety Act of 1966", 80 Stat. 719, 15 U.S.C. § 1392.
      COMMERCIAL CAR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      COMMERCIAL TRACTOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE. A seat safety belt, shoulder belt, harness,
or other safety device for restraining a person who is an operator of or
passenger in an automobile and that satisfies the minimum federal vehicle
safety standards established by the United States Department of Transportation.
      PASSENGER. Any person in an automobile, other than its operator, who is
occupying a seating position for which an occupant restraining device is
provided.
      PASSENGER CAR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      TORT ACTION. A civil action for damages for injury, death, or loss to
person or property. The term includes a product liability claim, as defined in
R.C. § 2307.71, and as asbestos claim, as defined in R.C. § 2307.91, but does
not include a civil action for damages for breach of contract or another
agreement between persons.
      VEHICLE and MOTOR VEHICLE. As used in the definitions of the terms set
forth above, VEHICLE and MOTOR VEHICLE have the same meanings as in R.C. §
4511.01.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless he or she is
wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device, or operate a school bus that has an occupant restraining
device installed for use in its operator’s seat unless he or she is wearing all
of the available elements of the device, as properly adjusted.
      (2)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless each
passenger in the automobile who is subject to the requirement set forth in
division (B)(3) of this section is wearing all of the available elements of a
properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
      (3)   Occupy, as a passenger, a seating position on the front seat of an
automobile being operated on any street or highway unless he or she is wearing
all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining
device.
      (4)   Operate a taxicab on any street or highway unless all factory-
equipped occupant restraining devices in the taxicab are maintained in usable
form.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Division (B)(3) of this section does not apply to a person who is
required by R.C. § 4511.81 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to
be secured in a child restraint device or booster seat.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
an employee of the United States Postal Service or of a newspaper home delivery
service, during any period in which the person is engaged in the operation of
an automobile to deliver mail or newspapers to addressees.
      (3)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(3) of this section do not apply to a
person who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4731 or a chiropractor licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4734 that states the following:
         (a)   That the person has a physical impairment that makes use of an
occupant restraining device impossible or impractical;
         (b)   Whether the physical impairment is temporary, permanent, or
reasonably expected to be permanent;
         (c)   If the physical impairment is temporary, how long the physical
impairment is expected to make the use of an occupant restraining device
impossible or impractical.
      (4)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(3) of this section do not apply to a
person who has registered with the Registrar of Motor Vehicles in accordance
with division (C)(5) of this section.
      (5)   A person who has received an affidavit under division (C)(3) of
this section stating that the person has a permanent or reasonably expected to
be permanent physical impairment that makes use of an occupant restraining
device impossible or impracticable may register with the Registrar of Motor
Vehicles attesting to that fact. Upon such registration, the Registrar shall
make that information available in the law enforcement automated data system. A
person included in the database under division (C)(5) of this section is not
required to have the affidavit obtained in accordance with division (C)(3) of
this section in their possession while operating or occupying an automobile.
      (6)   A physician or chiropractor who issues an affidavit for the
purposes of division (C)(3) or (C)(4) of this section is immune from civil
liability arising from any injury or death sustained by the person who was
issued the affidavit due to the failure of the person to wear an occupant
restraining device unless the physician or chiropractor, in issuing the
affidavit, acted in a manner that constituted willful, wanton, or reckless
misconduct.
      (7)   The Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 establishing a process for a person to be included in the
database under division (C)(5) of this section. The information provided and
included in the database under division (C)(5) of this section is not a public
record subject to inspection or copying under R.C. § 149.43.
   (D)   Officers not permitted to stop cars to determine violation.
Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law enforcement
officer shall cause an operator of an automobile being operated on any street
or highway to stop the automobile for the sole purpose of determining whether a
violation of division (B) of this section has been or is being committed or for
the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or summons for the violation or
for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for the
violation. No law enforcement officer shall view the interior or visually
inspect any automobile being operated on any street or highway for the sole
purpose of determining whether the violation has been or is being committed.
   (E)   Use of fines for educational program. All fines collected for
violations of division (B) of this section shall be forwarded to the State
Treasurer for deposit in the funds as set forth in R.C. § 4513.263(E).
   (F)   Limitations on evidence used for prosecution.
      (1)   Subject to division (F)(2) of this section, the failure of a person
to wear all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device in violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(3) of this section or
the failure of a person to ensure that each minor who is a passenger of an
automobile being operated by that person is wearing all of the available
elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device in violation of
division (B)(2) of this section shall not be considered or used by the trier of
fact in a tort action as evidence of negligence or contributory negligence.
But, the trier of fact may determine based on evidence admitted consistent with
the Ohio Rules of Evidence that the failure contributed to the harm alleged in
the tort action and may diminish a recovery of compensatory damages that
represents non-economic loss, as defined in R.C. § 2307.011, in a tort action
that could have been recovered but for the plaintiff’s failure to wear all of
the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
Evidence of that failure shall not be used as a basis for a criminal
prosecution of the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this
section; and shall not be admissible as evidence in a criminal action involving
the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
      (2)   If, at the time of an accident involving a passenger car equipped
with occupant restraining devices, any occupant of the passenger car who
sustained injury or death was not wearing an available occupant restraining
device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a device, or was
not wearing such a device as properly adjusted, then, consistent with the Rules
of Evidence, the fact that the occupant was not wearing the available occupant
restraining device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a
device, or was not wearing such a device as properly adjusted is admissible in
evidence in relation to any claim for relief in a tort action to the extent
that the claim for relief satisfies all of the following:
         (a)   It seeks to recover damages for injury or death to the occupant;
         (b)   The defendant in question is the manufacturer, designer,
distributor, or seller of the passenger car;
         (c)   The claim for relief against the defendant in question is that
the injury or death sustained by the occupant was enhanced or aggravated by
some design defect in the passenger car or that the passenger car was not
crashworthy.
   (G)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section shall be fined
$30.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) shall be subject to the penalty
set forth in §
70.99(B).
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section shall be fined
$20.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B)(4) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
division (B)(4) of this section, whoever violates division (B)(4) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4513.263)
Cross-reference:
   Child restraint systems, see §
72.123
   Installation and sale of seat safety belts, see §
74.33
   School bus operators, restraining devices, see §
72.099
§ 72.125 USE OF ENGINE BRAKES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The non-emergency use of engine brakes within the municipality is
prohibited.
   (B)   As used in this section, ENGINE BRAKES shall be defined to include but
is not limited to Jake Brakes, Jacobs Brakes, C Brakes, PacBrakes, TekBrakes,
and any other type of engine retarders commonly utilized within the trucking
industry.
   (C)   This section does not apply to emergency vehicles operated by fire,
police, or military units.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
§ 72.126 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE WHILE WEARING EARPHONES OR EARPLUGS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      EARPHONES. Any device that covers all or a portion of both ears and that
does either of the following:
         (a)   Through either a physical connection to another device or a
wireless connection, provides the listener with radio programs, music, or other
information;
         (b)   Provides hearing protection.
      EARPHONES does not include speakers or other listening devices that are
built into protective headgear.
      EARPLUGS. Any device that can be inserted into one or both ears and that
does either of the following:
         (a)   Through either a physical connection to another device or a
wireless connection, provides the listener with radio programs, music, or other
information;
         (b)   Provides hearing protection.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle while wearing earphones over,
or earplugs in, both ears.
   (C)   This section does not apply to:
      (1)   Any person wearing a hearing aid;
      (2)   Law enforcement personnel while on duty;
      (3)   Fire Department personnel and emergency medical service personnel
while on duty;
      (4)   Any person engaged in the operation of equipment for use in the
maintenance or repair of any highway;
      (5)   Any person engaged in the operation of refuse collection equipment;
      (6)   Any person wearing earphones or earplugs for hearing protection
while operating a motorcycle.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.84)
§ 72.127 CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINES AND LIVERY SERVICES.
   (A)   The operator of a chauffeured limousine shall accept passengers only
on the basis of prearranged contracts, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, and shall
not cruise in search of patronage unless the limousine is in compliance with
any statute or ordinance governing the operation of taxicabs or other similar
vehicles for hire.
   (B)   The operator of a chauffeured limousine may provide transportation to
passengers who arrange for the transportation through an intermediary,
including a digital dispatching service. Notwithstanding any law to the
contrary, when providing transportation arranged through an intermediary, the
operator of a chauffeured limousine may establish the fare and method of fare
calculation, so long as the method of fare calculation is provided to the
passenger upon request.
   (C)   No person shall advertise or hold himself or herself out as doing
business as a limousine service or livery service or other similar designation
unless each vehicle used by the person to provide the service is registered in
accordance with R.C. § 4503.24 and is in compliance with R.C. § 4509.80.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.85)
Statutory reference:
   Chauffeured limousine, motor vehicle licensing, see R.C. § 4503.24
   Proof of financial responsibility, see R.C. § 4509.80
§ 72.128 OPERATING TRACTION ENGINE UPON IMPROVED HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   No person shall drive over the improved highways of this municipality
a traction engine or tractor with tires or wheels equipped with ice picks,
spuds, spikes, chains or other projections of any kind extending beyond the
cleats, and no person shall tow or in any way pull another vehicle over the
improved highways of this municipality which towed or pulled vehicle has tires
or wheels equipped with ice picks, spuds, spikes, chains or other projections
of any kind. As used in this section, “traction engine” or “tractor” applies to
all self-propelling engines equipped with metal-tired wheels operated or
propelled by any form of engine, motor or mechanical power.
   (B)   This municipality shall not adopt, enforce, or maintain any ordinance,
rule or regulation contrary to or inconsistent with division (A), nor shall
this municipality require any license tax upon or registration fee for any
traction engine, tractor, or trailer, or any permit or license to operate.
Operators of traction engines or tractors shall have the same rights upon the
public streets and highways as the drivers of any other vehicles, unless some
other safe and convenient way is provided, and no public road open to traffic
shall be closed to traction engines or tractors.
(R.C. § 5589.08)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
§ 72.129 CRACKING EXHAUST NOISES; PEELING OUT.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe
operation, or in compliance with law, in such a manner that the vehicle is so
rapidly accelerated or started from a stopped position, or in the shifting of
gears while in motion, that the exhaust system emits a loud, cracking or
chattering noise unusual to its normal operation, or that the rubber tires of
such vehicle squeal or leave tire marks on the roadway, commonly known as
“peeling out”.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.130 SHORTCUTTING ACROSS PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No operator of a motor vehicle shall enter upon private property for the
sole purpose of driving across such property, between abutting streets or other
public ways thereof. The failure to stop on such property in connection with or
in furtherance of the enterprise or activities being conducted on the property
shall constitute prima facie evidence of the violation.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.131 TEXTING WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle on any street, highway, or
property open to the public for vehicular traffic while using a handheld
electronic wireless communications device to write, send, or read a text-based
communication.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   A person using a handheld electronic wireless communications device
in that manner for emergency purposes, including an emergency contact with a
law enforcement agency, hospital or health care provider, fire department, or
other similar emergency agency or entity;
      (2)   A person driving a public safety vehicle who uses a handheld
electronic wireless communications device in that manner in the course of the
person’s duties;
      (3)   A person using a handheld electronic wireless communications device
in that manner whose motor vehicle is in a stationary position and who is
outside a lane of travel;
      (4)   A person reading, selecting, or entering a name or telephone number
in a handheld electronic wireless communications device for the purpose of
making or receiving a telephone call;
      (5)   A person receiving wireless messages on a device regarding the
operation or navigation of a motor vehicle; safety-related information,
including emergency, traffic, or weather alerts; or data used primarily by the
motor vehicle;
      (6)   A person receiving wireless messages via radio waves;
      (7)   A person using a device for navigation purposes;
      (8)   A person conducting wireless interpersonal communication with a
device that does not require manually entering letters, numbers, or symbols or
reading text messages, except to activate, deactivate, or initiate the device
or a feature or function of the device;
      (9)   A person operating a commercial truck while using a mobile data
terminal that transmits and receives data;
      (10)   A person using a handheld electronic wireless communications
device in conjunction with a voice-operated or hands-free device feature or
function of the vehicle.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause an operator of an automobile being operated on
any street or highway to stop the automobile for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (A) of this section has been or is
being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of that nature or causing the arrest of or commencing a
prosecution of a person for a violation of that nature, and no law enforcement
officer shall view the interior or visually inspect any automobile being
operated on any street or highway for the sole purpose of determining whether a
violation of that nature has been or is being committed.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
   (E)   A prosecution for a violation of this section does not preclude a
prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 4511.204 based on the same conduct.
However, if an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this
section and is also convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of R.C. §
4511.204 based on the same conduct, the two offenses are allied offenses of
similar import under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Includes any of the following:
         (a)   A wireless telephone;
         (b)   A text-messaging device;
         (c)   A personal digital assistant;
         (d)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
         (e)   Any other substantially similar wireless device that is designed
or used to communicate text.
      VOICE-OPERATED OR HANDS-FREE DEVICE. A device that allows the user to
vocally compose or send, or to listen to a text-based communication without the
use of either hand except to activate or deactivate a feature or function.
      WRITE, SEND, OR READ A TEXT-BASED COMMUNICATION. To manually write or
send, or read a text-based communication using an electronic wireless
communications device, including manually writing or sending, or reading
communications referred to as text messages, instant messages, or electronic
mail.
(R.C. § 4511.204)
Statutory reference:
   No preemption for local regulations imposing greater penalties, see R.C. §
4511.204(E)
§ 72.132 USE OF ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICES BY MINORS OR
PROBATIONARY DRIVERS WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit who has not attained the
age of 18 years and no holder of a probationary driver’s license shall drive a
motor vehicle on any street, highway, or property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking while using in any manner an
electronic wireless communications device.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to either of the
following:
      (1)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device for
emergency purposes, including an emergency contact with a law enforcement
agency, hospital or health care provider, fire department, or other similar
emergency agency or entity;
      (2)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device whose
motor vehicle is in a stationary position and the motor vehicle is outside a
lane of travel;
      (3)   A person using a navigation device in a voice-operated or hands-
free manner who does not manipulate the device while driving.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (A) of this section shall be fined $150. In addition, the
court shall impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license
or permit for a definite period of 60 days.
      (2)   If the person previously has been adjudicated a delinquent child or
a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of this section, whoever violates
this section shall be fined $300. In addition, the court shall impose a class
seven suspension of the person’s driver’s license or permit for a definite
period of one year.
   (D)   The filing of a sworn complaint against a person for a violation of
this section does not preclude the filing of a sworn complaint for a violation
of R.C. § 4511.205 for the same conduct. However, if a person is adjudicated a
delinquent child or a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of this section
and is also adjudicated a delinquent child or a juvenile traffic offender for a
violation of R.C. § 4511.205 for the same conduct, the two offenses are allied
offenses of similar import under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (E)   As used in this section, ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE
includes any of the following:
      (1)   A wireless telephone;
      (2)   A personal digital assistant;
      (3)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
      (4)   A text-messaging device;
      (5)   Any other substantially similar electronic wireless device that is
designed or used to communicate via voice, image, or written word.
(R.C. § 4511.205)
CHAPTER 73: MOTOR VEHICLE CRIMES
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs
   
73.02   Implied consent
   
73.03   Physical control of vehicle while under the influence
   
73.04   Driving commercial vehicle with impaired alertness or ability; use of
drugs
   
73.05   Reckless operation of vehicles
   
73.06   Reckless operation off streets and highways; competitive operation
   
73.07   Operator to be in reasonable control
   
73.08   Immobilizing or disabling device violation
   
73.09   Street racing defined; prohibited on public highways
   
73.10   Speed limits
   
73.11   Slow speed or stopping
   
73.12   Emergency vehicles excepted from speed limitation
   
73.13   Speed regulations on bridges
   
73.14   Presenting false name or information to officer
   
73.15   Prohibition against resisting officer
   
73.16   Operation restricted for mini-trucks and low-speed, under-speed, or
utility vehicles
Stopping After Accident
   
73.30   Failure to stop after accident
   
73.31   Stopping after accident on other than public roads or highways
   
73.32   Accident involving damage to realty
   
73.33   Failure to report accident
Statutory reference:
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL OR DRUGS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate any vehicle within this municipality,
if, at the time of the operation, any of the following apply:
         (a)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse,
or a combination of them.
         (b)   The person has a concentration of 0.08% or more but less than
0.17% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
         (c)   The person has a concentration of 0.096% or more but less than
0.204% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma.
         (d)   The person has a concentration of 0.08 grams or more but less
than 0.17 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
         (e)   The person has a concentration of 0.11 grams or more but less
than 0.238 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s
urine.
         (f)   The person has a concentration of 0.17% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
         (g)   The person has a concentration of 0.204% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or plasma.
         (h)   The person has a concentration of 0.17 grams or more by weight
of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
         (i)   The person has a concentration of 0.238 grams or more by weight
of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
         (j)   Except as provided in division (K) of this section, the person
has a concentration of any of the following controlled substances or
metabolites of a controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum
or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds any of the following:
            1.   The person has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s
urine of at least 500 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter
of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            2.   The person has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s
urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s urine
or has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            3.   The person has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine metabolite per milliliter
of the person’s urine or has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms of
cocaine metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            4.   The person has a concentration of heroin in the person’s urine
of at least 2,000 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s urine or
has a concentration of heroin in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            5.   The person has a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-
monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s urine of at least ten nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s urine or has
a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least ten nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s whole blood
or blood serum or plasma.
            6.   The person has a concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s urine
of at least 25 nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s urine or a
concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of
at least ten nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma.
            7.   The person has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s
urine of at least ten nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least two nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            8.   Either of the following applies:
               a.   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or a combination of them, and the person has a concentration of
marihuana metabolite in the person’s urine of at least 15 nanograms of
marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s urine or has a
concentration of marihuana metabolite in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least five nanograms of marihuana metabolite per
milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
               b.   The person has a concentration of marihuana metabolite in
the person’s urine of at least 35 nanograms of marihuana metabolite per
milliliter of the person’s urine or has a concentration of marihuana metabolite
in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms
of marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma.
            9.   The person has a concentration of methamphetamine in the
person’s urine of at least 500 nanograms of methamphetamine per milliliter of
the person’s urine or has a concentration of methamphetamine in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of
methamphetamine per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            10.   The person has a concentration of phencyclidine in the
person’s urine of at least 25 nanograms of phencyclidine per milliliter of the
person’s urine or has a concentration of phencyclidine in the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma of at least ten nanograms of phencyclidine per
milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            11.   The State Board of Pharmacy has adopted a rule pursuant to
R.C. § 4729.041 that specifies the amount of salvia divinorum and the amount of
salvinorin A that constitute concentrations of salvia divinorum and salvinorin
A in a person’s urine, in a person’s whole blood, or in a person’s blood serum
or plasma at or above which the person is impaired for purposes of operating
any vehicle within this state, the rule is in effect, and the person has a
concentration of salvia divinorum or salvinorin A of at least that amount so
specified by rule in the person’s urine, in the person’s whole blood, or in the
person’s blood serum or plasma.
      (2)   No person who, within 20 years of the conduct described in division
(A)(2)(a) of this section, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of this division or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) or (B) of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or any other
equivalent offense shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Operate any vehicle within this municipality while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them;
         (b)   Subsequent to being arrested for operating the vehicle as
described in division (A)(2)(a) of this section, being asked by a law
enforcement officer to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and being advised by the
officer in accordance with R.C. § 4511.192 or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance of the consequences of the person’s refusal or submission
to the test or tests, refuse to submit to the test or tests.
   (B)   No person under 21 years of age shall operate any vehicle within this
municipality, if, at the time of the operation, any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02% but less than
0.08% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
      (2)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.03% but less than
0.096% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma.
      (3)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02 grams but less than
0.08 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
      (4)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.028 grams but less
than 0.11 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
   (C)   In any proceeding arising out of one incident, a person may be charged
with a violation of division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(2) and a violation of division
(B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section, but the person may not be convicted
of more than one violation of these divisions.
   (D)   (1)   (a)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding
for a violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section or for an equivalent
offense that is vehicle-related, the result of any test of any blood or urine
withdrawn and analyzed at any health care provider, as defined in R.C. §
2317.02, may be admitted with expert testimony to be considered with any other
relevant and competent evidence in determining the guilt or innocence of the
defendant.
         (b)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of division (A) or
(B) of this section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, the
court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol, drugs of abuse,
controlled substances, metabolites of a controlled substance, or a combination
of them in the defendant’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine,
or other bodily substance at the time of the alleged violation as shown by
chemical analysis of the substance withdrawn within three hours of the time of
the alleged violation. The three-hour time limit specified in this division
regarding the admission of evidence does not extend or affect the two-hour time
limit specified in R.C. § 4511.192(A) as the maximum period of time during
which a person may consent to a chemical test or tests as described in that
section. The court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol, drugs of
abuse, or a combination of them as described in this division when a person
submits to a blood test at the request of a law enforcement officer under R.C.
§ 4511.191 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or a blood or
urine sample is obtained pursuant to a search warrant. Only a physician, a
registered nurse, an emergency medical technician-intermediate, an emergency
medical technician- paramedic, or a qualified technician, chemist, or
phlebotomist shall withdraw a blood sample for the purpose of determining the
alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or
combination content of the whole blood, blood serum, or blood plasma. This
limitation does not apply to the taking of breath or urine specimens. A person
authorized to withdraw blood under this division may refuse to withdraw blood
under this division, if in that person’s opinion, the physical welfare of the
person would be endangered by the withdrawing of blood. The bodily substance
withdrawn under this division (D)(1)(b) shall be analyzed in accordance with
methods approved by the Director of Health by an individual possessing a valid
permit issued by the Director pursuant to R.C. § 3701.143.
         (c)   As used in division (D)(1)(b) of this section, EMERGENCY MEDICAL
TECHNICIAN-INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-PARAMEDIC have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4765.01.
      (2)   In a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (A) of this
section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, if there was at
the time the bodily substance was withdrawn a concentration of less than the
applicable concentration of alcohol specified in divisions (A)(1)(b), (A)(1)
(c), (A)(1)(d) and (A)(1)(e) of this section or less than the applicable
concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a
controlled substance specified for a violation of division (A)(1)(j) of this
section, that fact may be considered with other competent evidence in
determining the guilt or innocence of the defendant. This division does not
limit or affect a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (B) of this
section.
      (3)   Upon the request of the person who was tested, the results of the
chemical test shall be made available to the person or the person’s attorney,
immediately upon the completion of the chemical test analysis. If the chemical
test was obtained pursuant to division (D)(1)(b) of this section, the person
tested may have a physician, a registered nurse, or a qualified technician,
chemist, or phlebotomist of the person’s own choosing administer a chemical
test or tests, at the person’s expense, in addition to any administered at the
request of a law enforcement officer. If the person was under arrest as
described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the arresting officer shall advise the
person at the time of the arrest that the person may have an independent
chemical test taken at the person’s own expense. If the person was under arrest
other than described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the form to be read to the
person to be tested, as required under §
73.02, shall state that the person may have an independent test performed at
the person’s expense. The failure or inability to obtain an additional chemical
test by a person shall not preclude the admission of evidence relating to the
chemical test or tests taken at the request of a law enforcement officer.
      (4)   (a)   As used in division (D)(4)(b) and (D)(4)(c) of this section,
NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION means the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration established as an administration of the United
States Department of Transportation under 96 Stat. 2415 (1983), 49 U.S.C. §
105.
         (b)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of division (A) or (B) of this section, of a municipal ordinance
relating to operating a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or alcohol and a drug of abuse, or of a municipal ordinance relating to
operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine, if a law enforcement officer has
administered a field sobriety test to the operator of the vehicle involved in
the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for any reliable, credible, and generally accepted field sobriety
tests that were in effect at the time the tests were administered, including
but not limited to any testing standards then in effect that were set by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply:
            1.   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
            2.   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field
sobriety test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding.
            3.   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (D)(4)(b)1. or (D)(4)(b)2. of this section and if the testimony or
evidence is admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the
testimony or evidence and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the
trier of fact considers to be appropriate.
         (c)   Division (D)(4)(b) of this section does not limit or preclude a
court, in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (D)(4)(b) of this section.
   (E)   (1)   Subject to division (E)(3) of this section, in any criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a violation of division (A)(1)(b),
(A)(1)(c), (A)(1)(d), (A)(1)(e), (A)(1)(f), (A)(1)(g), (A)(1)(h), (A)(1)(i), or
(A)(1)(j) or (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), or (B)(4) of this section or for an
equivalent offense that is substantially equivalent to any of those divisions,
a laboratory report from any laboratory personnel issued a permit by the
Department of Health authorizing an analysis as described in this division that
contains an analysis of the whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine,
or other bodily substance tested and that contains all of the information
specified in this division shall be admitted as prima facie evidence of the
information and statements that the report contains. The laboratory report
shall contain all of the following:
         (a)   The signature, under oath, of any person who performed the
analysis;
         (b)   Any findings as to the identity and quantity of alcohol, a drug
of abuse, a controlled substance, a metabolite of a controlled substance, or a
combination of them that was found;
         (c)   A copy of a notarized statement by the laboratory director of a
designee of the director that contains the name of each certified analyst or
test performer involved with the report, the analyst’s or test performer’s
employment relationship with the laboratory that issued the report, and a
notation that performing an analysis of the type involved is part of the
analyst’s or test performer’s regular duties;
         (d)   An outline of the analyst’s or test performer’s education,
training, and experience in performing the type of analysis involved and a
certification that the laboratory satisfies appropriate quality control
standards in general and, in this particular analysis, under rules of the
Department of Health.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law regarding the admission
of evidence, a report of the type described in division (E)(1) of this section
is not admissible against the defendant to whom it pertains in any proceeding,
other than a preliminary hearing or a grand jury proceeding, unless the
prosecutor has served a copy of the report on the defendant’s attorney or, if
the defendant has no attorney, on the defendant.
      (3)   A report of the type described in division (E)(1) of this section
shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents, identity, or amount of any
substance if, within seven days after the defendant to whom the report pertains
or the defendant’s attorney receives a copy of the report, the defendant or the
defendant’s attorney demands the testimony of the person who signed the report.
The judge in the case may extend the seven-day time limit in the interest of
justice.
   (F)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, any physician,
registered nurse, emergency medical technician-intermediate, emergency medical
technician-paramedic, or qualified technician, chemist, or phlebotomist who
withdraws blood from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.192, and any hospital, first-aid station, or clinic at which
blood is withdrawn from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.192, is immune from criminal liability and civil liability
based upon a claim of assault and battery or any other claim that is not a
claim of malpractice, for any act performed in withdrawing blood from the
person. The immunity provided in this division also extends to an emergency
medical service organization that employs an emergency medical technician-
intermediate or emergency medical technician-paramedic who withdraws blood
under this section. The immunity provided in this division is not available to
a person who withdraws blood if the person engages in willful or wanton
misconduct.
      (2)   As used in division (F)(1), EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-
INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-PARAMEDIC have the same meanings
as in R.C. § 4765.01.
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates any provisions of divisions (A)(1)(a) through
(A)(1)(i) or (A)(2) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them. Whoever
violates division (A)(1)(j) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle
while under the influence of a listed controlled substance or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance. The court shall sentence the offender for
either offense under R.C. Chapter 2929, except as otherwise authorized or
required by divisions (G)(1)(a) through (G)(1)(e) of this section:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(b), (G)(1)(c),
(G)(1)(d), or (G)(1)(e) of this section, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree, and the court shall sentence the offender to
all of the penalties and sanctions provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a)(i)
through (G)(1)(a)(iv).
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of division (A) or (B) of this
section or one other equivalent offense is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and
sanctions provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) through (G)(1)(b)(v).
         (c)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division (A) or (B) of this
section or other equivalent offenses is guilty of a misdemeanor. The court
shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and sanctions provided in
R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c)(i) through (G)(1)(c)(vi).
         (d)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of division (A) or
(B) of this section or other equivalent offenses or an offender who, within 20
years of the offense, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
five or more violations of that nature is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
         (e)   An offender who previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) that was a felony, regardless of
when the violation and the conviction or guilty plea occurred, is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   An offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) of this section and who subsequently seeks reinstatement of the
driver’s or occupational driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privilege suspended under this section or R.C. § 4511.19 as a result of the
conviction or guilty plea shall pay a reinstatement fee as provided in R.C. §
4511.191(F)(2).
      (3)   (a)   If an offender is sentenced to a jail term under R.C. §
4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) or (G)(1)(b)(ii) or (G)(1)(c)(i) or (G)(1)(c)(ii) and if,
within 60 days of sentencing of the offender, the court issues a written
finding on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail
where the offender is required to serve the term, the offender will not be able
to begin serving that term within the 60-day period following the date of
sentencing, the court may impose an alternative sentence as specified in R.C. §
4511.19(G)(3) that includes a term of house arrest with electronic monitoring,
with continuous alcohol monitoring, or with both electronic monitoring and
continuous alcohol monitoring.
         (b)   As an alternative to the mandatory jail terms as required by
R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1), the court may sentence the offender as provided in R.C. §
4511.19(G)(3).
      (4)   If an offender’s driver’s or occupational driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege is suspended under division (G) of
this section or R.C. § 4511.19(G) and if R.C. § 4510.13 permits the court to
grant limited driving privileges, the court may grant the limited driving
privileges in accordance with that section. If division (A)(7) of that section
requires the court impose as a condition of the privileges that the offender
must display on the vehicle that is driven subject to the privileges restricted
license plates that are issued under R.C. § 4503.231, except as provided in
division (B) of that section, the court shall impose that condition as one of
the conditions of the limited driving privileges granted to the offender,
except as provided in R.C. § 4503.231(B).
      (5)   Fines imposed under this section for a violation of division (A) of
this section shall be distributed as provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(5).
      (6)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order of criminal
forfeiture under division (G)(1)(c), (G)(1)(d), or (G)(1)(e) of this section is
assigned or transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in
addition to or independent of any other penalty established by law, the court
may fine the offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of
the National Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds of any fine so
imposed shall be distributed in accordance with division (C)(2) of that
section.
      (7)   In all cases in which an offender is sentenced under division (G)
of this section, the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, the court, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for
any economic loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and
proximate result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or
after committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under division
(G) of this section.
      (8)   A court may order an offender to reimburse a law enforcement agency
for any costs incurred by the agency with respect to a chemical test or tests
administered to the offender if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) of this section.
         (b)   The test or tests were of the offender’s whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, or urine.
         (c)   The test or tests indicated that the offender had a prohibited
concentration of a controlled substance or a metabolite of a controlled
substance in the offender’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine at the
time of the offense.
      (9)   As used in division (G) of this section, ELECTRONIC MONITORING has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   (H)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of operating a
motor vehicle after underage alcohol consumption and shall be punished as
follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (H)(2) of this section,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. In addition to
any other sanction imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class six
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6). The court may grant
limited driving privileges relative to the suspension under R.C. §§ 4510.021
and 4510.13. The court may grant unlimited driving privileges with an ignition
interlock device relative to the suspension and may reduce the period of
suspension as authorized under R.C. § 4510.022. If the court grants unlimited
driving privileges under R.C. § 4510.022, the court shall suspend any jail term
imposed under division (H)(1) of this section as required under that section.
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of division (A)
or (B) of this section or other equivalent offense or offenses, the offender is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. In addition to any other sanction
imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class four suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4). The court may grant limited driving
privileges relative to the suspension under R.C. §§ 4510.021 and 4510.13.
      (3)   If the offender also is convicted of or also pleads guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1414 and if the court
imposes a jail term for the violation of division (B) of this section, the
court shall impose upon the offender an additional definite jail term pursuant
to R.C. § 2929.24(E).
      (4)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the violation of division (B) of this section.
   (I)   (1)   No court shall sentence an offender to an alcohol treatment
program under this section unless the treatment program complies with the
minimum standards for alcohol treatment programs adopted under R.C. Chapter
5119 by the Director of Mental Health and Addiction Services.
      (2)   An offender who stays in a drivers’ intervention program or in an
alcohol treatment program under an order issued under this section shall pay
the cost of the stay in the program. However, if the court determines that an
offender who stays in an alcohol treatment program under an order issued under
this section is unable to pay the cost of the stay in the program, the court
may order that the cost be paid from the court’s Indigent Drivers’ Alcohol
Treatment Fund.
   (J)   If a person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege is suspended under this section or R.C. §
4511.19 files an appeal regarding any aspect of the person’s trial or sentence,
the appeal itself does not stay the operation of the suspension.
   (K)   Division (A)(1)(j) of this section does not apply to a person who
operates a vehicle while the person has a concentration of a listed controlled
substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s
whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds the amount
specified in that division, if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
      (2)   The person injected, ingested, or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
   (L)   The prohibited concentrations of a controlled substance or a
metabolite of a controlled substance listed in division (A)(1)(j) of this
section also apply in a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2923.16(D) in the
same manner as if the offender is being prosecuted for a prohibited
concentration of alcohol.
   (M)   All terms defined in R.C. § 4510.01 apply to this section. If the
meaning of a term defined in R.C. § 4510.01 conflicts with the meaning of the
same term as defined in R.C. § 4501.01 or 4511.01, the term as defined in R.C.
§ 4510.01 applies to this section.
(R.C. § 4511.19(A) - (M))
   (N)   As used in this section, §
73.02 and §
73.03:
      COMMUNITY RESIDENTIAL SANCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2929.01.
      CONTINUOUS ALCOHOL MONITORING. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      DRUG OF ABUSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4506.01.
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B);
         (b)   A violation of a municipal OVI ordinance;
         (c)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.04 in a case in which the offender
was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that section;
         (d)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.06(A)(1) or R.C. § 2903.08 or a
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to either of those
divisions;
         (e)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.06(A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4), R.C. §
2903.08(A)(2), or former R.C. § 2903.07, or a municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to any of those divisions or that former section, in a
case in which a judge or jury as the trier of fact found that the offender was
under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them;
         (f)   A violation of R.C. § 1547.11(A) or (B);
         (g)   A violation of a municipal ordinance prohibiting a person from
operating or being in physical control of any vessel underway or from
manipulating any water skis, aquaplane, or similar device on the waters of this
state while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination
of them or prohibiting a person from operating or being in physical control of
any vessel underway or from manipulating any water skis, aquaplane, or similar
device on the waters of this state with a prohibited concentration of alcohol,
a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine;
         (h)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or R.C. § 1547.11(A) or (B);
         (i)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or R.C. § 1547.11(A) or (B).
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE THAT IS VEHICLE-RELATED. Means an equivalent offense
that is any of the following:
         (a)   A violation described in division (a), (b), (c), (d), or (e) of
the definition for “equivalent offense” provided in this division (N);
         (b)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B);
         (c)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B).
      JAIL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Means the mandatory term in jail of 3, 6, 10, 20,
30, or 60 days that must be imposed under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a), (G)(1)(b),
or (G)(1)(c) upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (A) of that
section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Except as specifically authorized under R.C. § 4511.19, the term
must be served in a jail.
         (b)   Except as specifically authorized under R.C. § 4511.19, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced, or otherwise modified pursuant to R.C. §§ 2929.21
through 2929.28 or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
      MANDATORY PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY TERM OF LOCAL INCARCERATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2929.01.
      MUNICIPAL OVI ORDINANCE and MUNICIPAL OVI OFFENSE. Mean any municipal
ordinance prohibiting a person from operating a vehicle while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them or prohibiting
a person from operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a
controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
      PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      SANCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
(R.C. § 4511.181)
Cross-reference:
   Endangering children, see §
135.14
Statutory reference:
   Mandatory suspension periods; immobilizing or disabling device; restricted
license, see R.C.     § 4510.13
   Trial judge to suspend driver’s license, see R.C. § 4510.05
§ 73.02 IMPLIED CONSENT.
   (A)   (1)   As used in this section:
         ALCOHOL MONITORING DEVICE. Means any device that provides for
continuous alcohol monitoring, any ignition interlock device, any immobilizing
or disabling device other than an ignition interlock device that is constantly
available to monitor the concentration of alcohol in a person’s system, or any
other device that provides for the automatic testing and periodic reporting of
alcohol consumption by a person and that a court orders a person to use as a
sanction imposed as a result of the person’s conviction of or plea of guilty to
an offense.
         COMMUNITY ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 5119.01.
         PHYSICAL CONTROL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.194.
      (2)   Any person who operates a vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for vehicular travel or parking within this
municipality or who is in physical control of a vehicle shall be deemed to have
given consent to a chemical test or tests of the person’s whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine to determine the alcohol, drug of abuse,
controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or combination
content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine if
arrested for a violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or any other municipal OVI ordinance.
      (3)   The chemical test or tests under division (A)(2) of this section
shall be administered at the request of a law enforcement officer having
reasonable grounds to believe the person was operating or in physical control
of a vehicle in violation of a division, section, or ordinance identified in
division (A)(2) of this section. The law enforcement agency by which the
officer is employed shall designate which of the tests shall be administered.
      (4)   Any person who is dead or unconscious, or who otherwise is in a
condition rendering the person incapable of refusal, shall be deemed to have
consented as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, and the test or tests
may be administered, subject to R.C. §§ 313.12 through 313.16.
      (5)   (a)   If a law enforcement officer arrests a person for a violation
of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a municipal OVI ordinance and if the person if
convicted would be required to be sentenced under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c), (d),
or (e), the law enforcement officer shall request the person to submit, and the
person shall submit, to a chemical test or tests of the person’s whole blood,
blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine for the purpose of determining the
alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled
substance, or combination content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or
plasma, breath, or urine. A law enforcement officer who makes a request
pursuant to this division that a person submit to a chemical test or tests is
not required to advise the person of the consequences of submitting to, or
refusing to submit to, the test or tests and is not required to give the person
the form described in division (C) of this section, but the officer shall
advise the person at the time of the arrest that if the person refuses to take
a chemical test the officer may employ whatever reasonable means are necessary
to ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma. The officer shall also advise the person at the
time of the arrest that the person may have an independent chemical test taken
at the person’s own expense. Divisions (A)(3) and (A)(4) of this section apply
to the administration of a chemical test or tests pursuant to this division.
         (b)   If a person refuses to submit to a chemical test upon a request
made pursuant to division (A)(5)(a) of this section, the law enforcement
officer who made the request may employ whatever reasonable means are necessary
to ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma. A law enforcement officer who acts pursuant to
this division to ensure that a person submits to a chemical test of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma is immune from criminal and civil
liability based upon a claim for assault and battery or any other claim for the
acts, unless the officer so acted with malicious purpose, in bad faith, or in a
wanton or reckless manner.
(R.C. § 4511.191(A))
   (B)   Except as provided in division (A)(5) of this section, the arresting
law enforcement officer shall give advice in accordance with this section to
any person under arrest for a violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or any other municipal OVI ordinance. The officer shall
give that advice in a written form that contains the information described in
division (C) of this section and shall read the advice to the person. The form
shall contain a statement that the form was shown to the person under arrest
and read to the person by the arresting officer. One or more persons shall
witness the arresting officer’s reading of the form, and the witnesses shall
certify to this fact by signing the form. The person must submit to the
chemical test or tests, subsequent to the request of the arresting officer,
within two hours of the time of the alleged violation and, if the person does
not submit to the test or tests within that two-hour time limit, the failure to
submit automatically constitutes a refusal to submit to the test or tests.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (A)(5) of this section, if a person is
under arrest as described in division (B) of this section, before the person
may be requested to submit to a chemical test or tests to determine the
alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled
substance, or combination content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or
plasma, breath, or urine, the arresting officer shall read the following form
to the person:
You now are under arrest for (specifically state the offense under state law or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance for which the person was
arrested – operating a vehicle under the influence of alcohol, a drug, or a
combination of them; operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed
controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance;
operating a vehicle after underage alcohol consumption; or having physical
control of a vehicle while under the influence).
If you refuse to take any chemical test required by law, your Ohio driving
privileges will be suspended immediately, and you will have to pay a fee to
have the privileges reinstated. If you have a prior conviction of OVI, OVUAC,
or operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed controlled
substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance under state or
municipal law within the preceding 20 years, you are now under arrest for state
OVI, and, if you refuse to take a chemical test, you will face increased
penalties if you subsequently are convicted of the state OVI.
(Read this part unless the person is under arrest for solely having physical
control of a vehicle while under the influence.) If you take any chemical test
required by law and are found to be at or over the prohibited amount of
alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in
your whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine as set by law, your
Ohio driving privileges will be suspended immediately, and you will have to pay
a fee to have the privileges reinstated.
If you take a chemical test, you may have an independent chemical test taken at
your own expense.
   (D)   If the arresting law enforcement officer does not ask a person under
arrest as described in division (B) of this section or division (A)(5) of this
section to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191 or this
section, the arresting officer shall seize the Ohio or out-of-state driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit of the person and immediately forward it
to the court in which the arrested person is to appear on the charge. If the
arrested person is not in possession of the person’s license or permit or it is
not in the person’s vehicle, the officer shall order the person to surrender it
to the law enforcement agency that employs the officer within 24 hours after
the arrest, and, upon the surrender, the agency immediately shall forward the
license or permit to the court in which the person is to appear on the charge.
Upon receipt of the license or permit, the court shall retain it pending the
arrested person’s initial appearance and any action taken under R.C. §
4511.196.
   (E)   (1)   If a law enforcement officer asks a person under arrest as
described in division (A)(5) of this section to submit to a chemical test or
tests under that division and the test results indicate a prohibited
concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, or urine at the time of the alleged offense, or if a law enforcement
officer asks a person under arrest as described in division (B) of this section
to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191 or this section, if
the officer advises the person in accordance with this section of the
consequences of the person’s refusal or submission, and if either the person
refuses to submit to the test or tests or, unless the arrest was for a
violation of §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the
person submits to the test or tests and the test results indicate a prohibited
concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, or urine at the time of the alleged offense, the arresting officer
shall do all of the following:
         (a)   On behalf of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, notify the person
that, independent of any penalties or sanctions imposed upon the person, the
person’s Ohio driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege is suspended immediately, that the suspension will last at
least until the person’s initial appearance on the charge, which will be held
within five days after the date of the person’s arrest or the issuance of a
citation to the person, and that the person may appeal the suspension at the
initial appearance or during the period of time ending 30 days after that
initial appearance;
         (b)   Seize the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit of
the person and immediately forward it to the Registrar. If the arrested person
is not in possession of the person’s license or permit or it is not in the
person’s vehicle, the officer shall order the person to surrender it to the law
enforcement agency that employs the officer within 24 hours after the person is
given notice of the suspension, and, upon the surrender, the officer’s
employing agency immediately shall forward the license or permit to the
Registrar;
         (c)   Verify the person’s current residence and, if it differs from
that on the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit, notify
the Registrar of the change;
         (d)   Send to the Registrar, within 48 hours after the arrest of the
person, a sworn report that includes all of the following statements:
            1.   That the officer had reasonable grounds to believe that, at
the time of the arrest, the arrested person was operating a vehicle in
violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or a municipal OVI ordinance or for being
in physical control of a stationary vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.194 or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
            2.   That the person was arrested and charged with a violation of
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a municipal OVI ordinance;
            3.   Unless division (E)(1)(d)5. of this section applies, that the
officer asked the person to take the designated chemical test or tests, advised
the person in accordance with this section of the consequences of submitting
to, or refusing to take, the test or tests, and gave the person the form
described in division (C) of this section;
            4.   Unless division (E)(1)(d)5. of this section applies, that
either the person refused to submit to the chemical test or tests or, unless
the arrest was for a violation of R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the person submitted to the chemical test or tests and the
test results indicate a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine at the time of the alleged
offense.
            5.   If the person was under arrest as described in division (A)(5)
of this section and the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance
with that division, that the person was under arrest as described in that
division, that the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance with
that division, and that test results indicated a prohibited concentration of
alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in
the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine at the time
of the alleged offense.
      (2)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
arrested for a violation of §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, who
is asked by a law enforcement officer to submit to a chemical test or tests
under this section, and who submits to the test or tests, regardless of the
amount of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled
substance that the test results indicate is present in the person’s whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
   (F)   The arresting officer shall give the officer’s sworn report that is
completed under this section to the arrested person at the time of the arrest,
or the Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall send the report to the person by
regular first class mail as soon as possible after receipt of the report, but
not later than 14 days after receipt of it. An arresting officer may give an
unsworn report to the arrested person at the time of the arrest provided the
report is complete when given to the arrested person and subsequently is sworn
to by the arresting officer. As soon as possible, but not later than 48 hours
after the arrest of the person, the arresting officer shall send a copy of the
sworn report to the court in which the arrested person is to appear on the
charge for which the person was arrested.
   (G)   The sworn report of an arresting officer completed under this section
is prima facie proof of the information and statements that it contains. It
shall be admitted and considered as prima facie proof of the information and
statements that it contains in any appeal under R.C. § 4511.197 relative to any
suspension of a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege that results from the arrest covered by the
report.
(R.C. § 4511.192)
   (H)   (1)   A suspension of a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit or nonresident operating privilege under this section for the
time described in R.C. § 4511.191(B) or (C) is effective immediately from the
time at which the arresting officer serves the notice of suspension upon the
arrested person. Any subsequent finding that the person is not guilty of the
charge that resulted in the person’s being requested to take the chemical test
or tests under division (A) of this section does not affect the suspension.
      (2)   If a person arrested for operating a vehicle in violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), or any other municipal OVI
ordinance, or for being in physical control of a vehicle in violation of §
73.03 or R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
regardless of whether the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege is or is not suspended under R.C. §
4511.191(B) or (C) or R.C. Chapter 4510, the person’s initial appearance on the
charge resulting from the arrest shall be held within five days of the persons’
arrest or the issuance of the citation to him or her, subject to any
continuance granted by the court pursuant to R.C. § 4511.197 regarding the
issues specified in that section.
(R.C. § 4511.191(D))
Statutory reference:
   Continuous alcohol monitoring, see R.C. § 4511.198
   Disposition of fines, immobilization of vehicle and impoundment of license
plates, criminal forfeiture for municipal ordinance conviction, see R.C. §
4511.193
   Effect of refusal to submit to test, seizure of license, suspension periods,
appeal procedures, occupational driving privileges, and Indigent Drivers
Alcohol Treatment Funds, see R.C. § 4511.191
   Judicial pretrial suspension, initial appearance, see R.C. § 4511.196
   Mandatory suspension periods; immobilizing or disabling device; restricted
license, see R.C.     § 4510.13
   Seizure of vehicles upon arrest, see R.C. § 4511.195
§ 73.03 PHYSICAL CONTROL OF VEHICLE WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (A)   As used in this section, PHYSICAL CONTROL means being in the driver’s
position of the front seat of a vehicle and having possession of the vehicle’s
ignition key or other ignition device.
   (B)   No person shall be in physical control of a vehicle if, at the time of
the physical control, any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a
combination of them.
      (2)   The person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine
contains at least the concentration of alcohol specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(b), (A)(1)(c), (A)(1)(d), or (A)(1)(e).
      (3)   Except as provided in division (E) of this section, the person has
a concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or
urine that equals or exceeds the concentration specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(j).
   (C)   (1)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of this section, if a law enforcement officer has administered a
field sobriety test to the person in physical control of the vehicle involved
in the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for any reliable, credible, and generally acceptable field sobriety
tests that were in effect at the time the tests were administered, including
but not limited to any testing standards then in effect what were set by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply:
         (a)   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
         (b)   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field sobriety
test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal prosecution
or juvenile court proceeding.
         (c)   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this section and if the testimony or
evidence is admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the
testimony or evidence, and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the
trier of fact considers to be appropriate.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not limit or preclude a court,
in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (C)(1) of this section.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of having physical control of
a vehicle while under the influence, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In
addition to other sanctions imposed, the court may impose on the offender a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
   (E)   Division (B)(3) of this section does not apply to a person who is in
physical control of a vehicle while the person has a concentration of a listed
controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance in the
person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds
the amount specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(j) if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
      (2)   The person injected, ingested, or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
(R.C. § 4511.194)
§ 73.04 DRIVING COMMERCIAL VEHICLE WITH IMPAIRED ALERTNESS OR ABILITY; USE OF
DRUGS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle, as defined in R.C. §
4506.01, or a commercial car or commercial tractor, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, while the person’s ability or alertness is so impaired by fatigue,
illness, or other causes that it is unsafe for the person to drive such
vehicle. No driver shall use any drug which would adversely affect the driver’s
ability or alertness.
   (B)   No owner, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, of a commercial motor vehicle,
commercial car or commercial tractor, or a person employing or otherwise
directing the driver of such vehicle, shall require or knowingly permit a
driver in any such condition described in division (A) of this section to drive
such vehicle upon any street or highway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.79, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, or
4511.77 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.79)
§ 73.05 RECKLESS OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any street or highway in willful
or wanton disregard of the safety of persons or property.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.20)
Cross-reference:
   License suspension, see §
71.25
§ 73.06 RECKLESS OPERATION OFF STREETS AND HIGHWAYS; COMPETITIVE OPERATION.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any public or private
property other than streets or highways in willful or wanton disregard of the
safety of persons or property.
      (2)   This section does not apply to the competitive operation of
vehicles on public or private property when the owner of such property
knowingly permits such operation thereon.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.201)
Cross-reference:
   License suspension, see §
71.25
§ 73.07 OPERATOR TO BE IN REASONABLE CONTROL.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, agricultural tractor, or
agricultural tractor that is towing, pulling, or otherwise drawing a unit of
farm machinery on any street, highway, or property open to the public for
vehicular traffic without being in reasonable control of the vehicle,
agricultural tractor, or unit of farm machinery.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or agricultural tractor without being in control of it, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.202)
§ 73.08 IMMOBILIZING OR DISABLING DEVICE VIOLATION.
   (A)   (1)   No offender who has been granted limited or unlimited driving
privileges, during any period that the offender is required to operate only a
motor vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, shall request
or permit any other person to breathe into the device if it is an ignition
interlock device or another type of device that monitors the concentration of
alcohol in a person’s breath or to otherwise start the motor vehicle equipped
with the device, for the purpose of providing the offender with an operable
motor vehicle.
      (2)   No person shall breathe into an immobilizing or disabling device
that is an ignition interlock device or another type of device that monitors
the concentration of alcohol in a person’s breath or otherwise start a motor
vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, for the purpose of
providing an operable motor vehicle to another person who has been granted
limited or unlimited driving privileges under the condition that the person
operate only a motor vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device.
      (3)   No unauthorized person shall tamper with or circumvent the
operation of an immobilizing or disabling device.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an immobilizing or
disabling device violation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4510.44)
§ 73.09 STREET RACING DEFINED; PROHIBITED ON PUBLIC HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   As used in this section, STREET RACING means the operation of two or
more vehicles from a point side by side at accelerating speeds in a competitive
attempt to outdistance each other, or the operation of one or more vehicles
over a common selected course, from the same point to the same point, wherein
timing is made of the participating vehicles involving competitive
accelerations or speeds. Persons rendering assistance in any manner to such
competitive use of vehicles shall be equally charged as the participants. The
operation of two or more vehicles side by side either at speeds in excess of
prima facie lawful speeds established by R.C. § 4511.21(B)(1)(a) through (B)(9)
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or rapidly accelerating from
a common starting point to a speed in excess of such prima facie lawful speeds
shall be prima facie evidence of street racing.
   (B)   No person shall participate in street racing upon any public road,
street, or highway in this municipality.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of street racing, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition to any other sanctions, the court
shall suspend the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privileges for not less than 30 days or more than three years. No judge shall
suspend the first 30 days of any suspension of an offender’s license, permit,
or privilege imposed under this division.
(R.C. § 4511.251)
§ 73.10 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater or less
than is reasonable or proper, having due regard for the traffic, surface, and
width of the street or highway and any other conditions, and no person shall
drive any motor vehicle in and upon any street or highway at a greater speed
than will permit him or her to bring it to a stop within the assured clear
distance ahead.
   (B)   It is prima facie lawful, in the absence of a lower limit declared or
established pursuant to this section by the Director of Transportation or local
authorities, for the operator of a motor vehicle to operate the same at a speed
not exceeding the following:
      (1)   (a)   Twenty mph in school zones during school recess and while
children are going to or leaving school during the opening or closing hours,
and when 20 mph school speed limit signs are erected, except that on
controlled-access highways and expressways, if the right-of-way line fence has
been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed by
division (B)(4) of this section, and on freeways, if the right-of-way line
fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed
by divisions (B)(10) and (B)(11) of this section. The end of every school zone
may be marked by a sign indicating the end of the zone. Nothing in this section
or in the Manual and Specifications for a Uniform System of Traffic-Control
Devices shall be construed to require school zones to be indicated by signs
equipped with flashing or other lights, or giving other special notice of the
hours in which the school zone speed limit is in effect.
         (b)   As used in this section, SCHOOL means all of the following:
            1.   Any school chartered under R.C. § 3301.16;
            2.   Any nonchartered school that during the preceding year filed
with the Department of Education in compliance with O.A.C. § 3301-35-08, a copy
of the school's report for the parents of the school's pupils certifying that
the school meets state minimum standards for nonchartered, nontax-supported
schools and presents evidence of this filing to the jurisdiction from which it
is requesting the establishment of a school zone;
            3.   Any special elementary school that in writing requests the
County Engineer to create a school zone at the location of the school. Upon
receipt of such written request, the County Engineer shall create a school zone
at that location by erecting appropriate signs;
            4.   Any preschool education program operated by an educational
service center that is located on a street or highway with a speed limit of 45
miles per hour or more, when the educational service center in writing requests
that the County Engineer create a school zone at the location of that program.
Upon receipt of such a written request, the County Engineer shall create a
school zone at that location by erecting the appropriate signs.
         (c)   As used in this section, SCHOOL ZONE means that portion of a
street or highway passing a school fronting upon the street or highway that is
encompassed by projecting the school property lines to the fronting street or
highway, and also includes that portion of a state highway. Upon request from
local authorities for streets and highways under their jurisdiction and that
portion of a state highway under the jurisdiction of the Director of
Transportation or a request from a County Engineer in the case of a school zone
for a special elementary school, the Director may extend the traditional school
zone boundaries. The distances in divisions (B)(1)(c)1. through (B)(1)(c)3.
below shall not exceed 300 feet per approach per direction, and are bounded by
whichever of the following distances or combination thereof the Director
approves as most appropriate:
            1.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school building
lines normal to the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            2.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school property
lines intersecting the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            3.   The distance encompassed by the special marking of the
pavement for a principal school pupil crosswalk plus a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction of the highway.
         (d)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the
Director’s initial action on August 9, 1976, establishing all school zones at
the traditional school zone boundaries defined by projecting school property
lines, except when those boundaries are extended as provided in divisions (B)
(1)(a) and (B)(1)(c) of this section.
         (e)   As used in this division, CROSSWALK has the meaning given that
term in R.C. § 4511.01(LL)(2).
         (f)   The Director may, upon request by resolution of the Legislative
Authority and upon submission by the municipality of such engineering, traffic,
and other information as the Director considers necessary, designate a school
zone on any portion of a state route lying within the municipality that
includes a crosswalk customarily used by children going to or leaving a school
during recess and opening and closing hours, whenever the distance, as measured
in a straight line, from the school property line nearest the crosswalk to the
nearest point of a crosswalk is no more than 1,320 feet. Such a school zone
shall include the distance encompassed by the crosswalk and extending 300 feet
in each appropriate direction of the state route.
         (g)   As used in this section, SPECIAL ELEMENTARY SCHOOL means a
school that meets all of the following:
            1.   It is not chartered and does not receive tax revenue from any
source.
            2.   It does not educate children beyond the eighth grade.
            3.   It is located outside the limits of a municipal corporation.
            4.   A majority of the total number of students enrolled at the
school are not related by blood.
            5.   The principal or other person in charge of the special
elementary school annually sends a report to the superintendent of the school
district in which the special elementary school is located indicating the total
number of students enrolled at the school, but otherwise the principal or other
person in charge does not report any other information or data to the
superintendent.
      (2)   Twenty-five mph in all other portions of the municipality, except
on state routes outside business districts, through highways outside business
districts, and alleys;
      (3)   Thirty-five mph on all state routes or through highways within the
municipality outside business districts, except as provided in divisions (B)(4)
and (B)(6) of this section;
      (4)   Fifty miles per hour on controlled-access highways and expressways
within the municipality, except as provided in divisions (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)
(14), (B)(15), and (B)(16) of this section;
      (5)   Fifty-five miles per hour on highways outside the municipality,
other than highways within island jurisdictions as provided in division (B)(8)
of this section, highways as provided in divisions (B)(9) and (B)(10) of this
section, and highways, expressways and freeways as provided in divisions (B)
(12), (B)(13), (B)(14), and (B)(16) of this section;
      (6)   Fifty mph on state routes within the municipality outside urban
districts unless a lower prima facie speed is established as further provided
in this section;
      (7)   Fifteen mph on all alleys within the municipality;
      (8)   Thirty-five mph on highways outside the municipality that are
within an island jurisdiction;
      (9)   Thirty-five mph on through highways, except state routes, that are
outside municipal corporations and that are within a national park with
boundaries extending through two or more counties;
      (10)   Sixty mph on two-lane state routes outside municipal corporations
as established by the Director under R.C. § 4511.21(H)(2);
      (11)   Fifty-five miles per hour on freeways with paved shoulders inside
the municipality, other than freeways as provided in divisions (B)(14) and (B)
(16) of this section;
      (12)   Sixty miles per hour on rural expressways with traffic control
signals and on all portions of rural divided highways, except as provided in
divisions (B)(13) and (B)(14) of this section;
      (13)   Sixty-five miles per hour on all rural expressways without traffic
control signals;
      (14)   Seventy miles per hour on all rural freeways;
      (15)   Fifty-five miles per hour on all portions of freeways or
expressways in congested areas as determined by the Director and that are
located within a municipal corporation or within an interstate freeway
outerbelt, except as provided in division (B)(16) of this section;
      (16)   Sixty-five miles per hour on all portions of freeways or
expressways without traffic control signals in urbanized areas.
   (C)   It is prima facie unlawful for any person to exceed any of the speed
limitations in divisions (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)
(8) and (B)(9) of this section or any declared or established pursuant to this
section by the Director or local authorities and it is unlawful for any person
to exceed any of the speed limitations in division (D) of this section. No
person shall be convicted of more than one violation of this section for the
same conduct, although violations of more than one provision of this section
may be charged in the alternative in a single affidavit.
   (D)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon a street or highway as
follows:
      (1)   At a speed exceeding 55 miles per hour, except upon a two-lane
state route as provided in division (B)(10) of this section and upon a highway,
expressway or freeway as provided in divisions (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)(14), and
(B)(16) of this section;
      (2)   At a speed exceeding 60 miles per hour upon a two-lane state route
as provided in division (B)(10) of this section and upon a highway as provided
in division (B)(12) of this section;
      (3)   At a speed exceeding 65 miles per hour upon an expressway as
provided in division (B)(13) of this section or upon a freeway as provided in
division (B)(16) of this section, except upon a freeway as provided in division
(B)(14) of this section;
      (4)   At a speed exceeding 70 miles per hour upon a freeway as provided
in division (B)(14) of this section;
      (5)   At a speed exceeding the posted speed limit upon a highway,
expressway or freeway for which the Director has determined and declared a
speed limit pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(I)(2) or (L)(2).
   (E)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(E), in every charge of violating this
section, the affidavit and warrant shall specify the time, place and speed at
which the defendant is alleged to have driven, and in charges made in reliance
upon division (C) of this section also the speed which division (B)(1)(a), (B)
(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared
or established pursuant to, this section or R.C. § 4511.21 declares is prima
facie lawful at the time and place of such alleged violation, except that in
affidavits where a person is alleged to have driven at a greater speed than
will permit the person to bring the vehicle to stop within the assured clear
distance ahead, the affidavit and warrant need not specify the speed at which
the defendant is alleged to have driven.
   (F)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(F), when a speed in excess of both a prima
facie limitation and a limitation in division (D) of this section is alleged,
the defendant shall be charged in a single affidavit, alleging a single act,
with a violation indicated of both division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4),
(B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of this section, or of a limit declared or
established pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.21 by the Director or local
authorities, and of the limitation in division (D) of this section. If the
court finds a violation of division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6),
(B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared or established pursuant to,
this section or R.C. § 4511.21 has occurred, it shall enter a judgment of
conviction under such division and dismiss the charge under division (D) of
this section. If it finds no violation of division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3),
(B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared or established
pursuant to, this section or R.C. § 4511.21, it shall then consider whether the
evidence supports a conviction under division (D) of this section.
   (G)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(G), points shall be assessed for a
violation of a limitation under division (D) of this section in accordance with
R.C. § 4510.036.
(R.C. § 4511.21(A) - (G))
   (H)   Whenever, in accordance with R.C. § 4511.21(H) through (N), the
maximum prima facie speed limitations as established herein have been altered,
either higher or lower, and the appropriate signs giving notice have been
erected as required, operators of motor vehicles shall be governed by the speed
limitations set forth on such signs. It is prima facie unlawful for any person
to exceed the speed limits posted upon such signs.
   (I)   As used in this section:
      COMMERCIAL BUS. Means a motor vehicle designed for carrying more than
nine passengers and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
      DIVIDED. Means a roadway having two or more travel lanes for vehicles
moving in opposite directions and that is separated by a median of more than
four feet, excluding turn lanes.
      INTERSTATE SYSTEM. Has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. § 101.
      NONCOMMERCIAL BUS. Includes but is not limited to a school bus, or a
motor vehicle operated solely for the transportation of persons associated with
a charitable or nonprofit organization.
      OUTERBELT. A portion of a freeway that is part of the interstate system
and is located in the outer vicinity of a major municipal corporation or group
of municipal corporations, as designated by the Director.
      RURAL. Means an area outside urbanized areas and outside of a business or
urban district, and areas that extend within urbanized areas where the roadway
characteristics remain mostly unchanged from those outside the urbanized areas.
      URBANIZED AREA. Has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. § 101.
(R.C. § 4511.21(O))
   (J)   Speed limits for private roads and driveways.
      (1)   The owner of a private road or driveway located in a private
residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units may establish a speed
limit on the road or driveway by complying with all of the following
requirements:
         (a)   The speed limit is not less than 25 mph and is indicated by a
sign that is in a proper position, is sufficiently legible to be seen by an
ordinarily observant person, and meets the specifications for the basic speed
limit sign included in the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation
pursuant to R.C. § 4511.09;
         (b)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road
or driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road
or driveway that they are entering private property, a speed limit has been
established for the road or driveway, and the speed limit is enforceable by law
enforcement officers under state law.
      (2)   No person shall operate a vehicle upon a private road or driveway
as provided in division (J)(1) of this section at a speed exceeding any speed
limit established and posted pursuant to division (J)(1).
      (3)   When a speed limit is established and posted in accordance with
division (J)(1) of this section, a law enforcement officer may apprehend a
person violating the speed limit of the residential area by utilizing any of
the means described in R.C. § 4511.091 or by any other accepted method of
determining the speed of a motor vehicle and may stop and charge the person
with exceeding the speed limit.
      (4)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.211(D), points shall be assessed for
violation of a speed limit established and posted in accordance with division
(J)(1) of this section in accordance with R.C. § 4510.036.
      (5)   As used in this division (J):
         OWNER. Includes but is not limited to a person who holds title to the
real property in fee simple, a condominium owners’ association, a property
owners’ association, a board of directors or trustees of a private community,
and a nonprofit corporation governing a private community.
         PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL AREA CONTAINING 20 OR MORE DWELLING UNITS. Does
not include a Chautauqua assembly as defined in R.C. § 4511.90.
(R.C. § 4511.211(A) - (E))
   (K)   Penalties.
      (1)   Divisions (A) through (I).
         (a)   A violation of any provision of divisions (A) through (I) of
this section is one of the following:
            1.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (K)(1)(a)2., (K)(1)
(a)3., (K)(1)(b), and (K)(1)(c) of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
            2.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of any provision of
divisions (A) through (I) of this section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any provision of
any other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any provision
of that section, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
            3.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of any
provision of divisions (A) through (I) of this section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any
provision of any other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to
any provision of that section, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         (b)   If the offender has not previously been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of any provision of division (A) through (I) of this
section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any other municipal ordinance that is substantially
equivalent to any provision of that section, and operated a motor vehicle
faster than 35 miles an hour in a business district of the municipality, faster
than 50 miles an hour in other portions of the municipality, or faster than 35
miles an hour in a school zone during recess or while children are going to or
leaving school during the school’s opening or closing hours, a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
         (c)   Notwithstanding division (K)(1)(a) of this section, if the
offender operated a motor vehicle in a construction zone where a sign was then
posted in accordance with R.C. § 4511.98, the court, in addition to all other
penalties provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a fine of two times
the usual amount imposed for the violation. No court shall impose a fine of two
times the usual amount imposed for the violation upon an offender if the
offender alleges, in an affidavit filed with the court prior to the offender’s
sentencing, that the offender is indigent and is unable to pay the fine imposed
pursuant to this division and if the court determines that the offender is an
indigent person and unable to pay the fine.
         (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.21(P))
      (2)   Division (J).
         (a)   A violation of division (J)(2) of this section is one of the
following:
            1.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (K)(2)(a)2. and (K)
(2)(a)3. of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
            2.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division (J)(2) of
this section, R.C. § 4511.211(B), or any other municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to that division, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
            3.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of division
(J)(2) of this section, R.C. § 4511.211(B), or any other municipal ordinance
that is substantially equivalent to that division, a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
         (b)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.211(F))
Statutory reference:
   Alteration of speed limits with approval of Director, see R.C. § 4511.21(H)
through (N)
   Arrest pending warrant when radar, electrical or mechanical timing device
used to determine
    violation, see R.C. § 4511.091
§ 73.11 SLOW SPEED OR STOPPING.
   (A)   No person shall stop or operate a vehicle at such an unreasonably slow
speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic,
except when stopping or reduced speed is necessary for safe operation or to
comply with law.
   (B)   Whenever the Director of Transportation or local authorities determine
on the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation that slow speeds on
any part of a controlled-access highway, expressway, or freeway consistently
impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, the Director or such
local authority may declare a minimum speed limit below which no person shall
operate a motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe operation or in
compliance with the law. No minimum speed limit established hereunder shall be
less than 30 mph, greater than 50 mph, nor effective until the provisions of
R.C. § 4511.21 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, relating to
appropriate signs, have been fulfilled and local authorities have obtained the
approval of the Director.
   (C)   In a case involving a violation of this section, the trier of fact, in
determining whether the vehicle was being operated at an unreasonably slow
speed, shall consider the capabilities of the vehicle and its operator.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.22)
§ 73.12 EMERGENCY VEHICLES EXCEPTED FROM SPEED LIMITATION.
   The prima facie speed limitations set forth in R.C. § 4511.21 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance do not apply to emergency vehicles
or public safety vehicles when they are responding to emergency calls and are
equipped with and displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating
light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet
to the front of the vehicle, and when the drivers thereof sound audible signals
by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle. This section does not relieve the driver of
an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons using the street or highway.
(R.C. § 4511.24)
§ 73.13 SPEED REGULATIONS ON BRIDGES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle over any bridge or other
elevated structure constituting a part of a highway at a speed which is greater
than the maximum speed that can be maintained with safety to such bridge or
structure, when such structure is posted with signs as provided in this
section.
      (2)   The Department of Transportation upon request from any local
authority shall, or upon its own initiative may, conduct an investigation of
any bridge or other elevated structure constituting a part of a highway, and if
it finds that such structure cannot with safety withstand traffic traveling at
the speed otherwise permissible under this Traffic Code, the Department shall
determine and declare the maximum speed of traffic which such structure can
withstand, and shall cause or permit suitable signs stating such maximum speed
to be erected and maintained at a distance of a least 100 feet before each end
of the structure.
      (3)   Upon the trial of any person charged with a violation of this
section, proof of such determination of the maximum speed by the Department and
the existence of such signs shall constitute prima facie evidence of the
maximum speed which can be maintained with safety to such bridge or structure.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.23)
§ 73.14 PRESENTING FALSE NAME OR INFORMATION TO OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly present, display, or orally communicate a
false name, social security number, or date of birth to a law enforcement
officer who is in the process of issuing to the person a traffic ticket or
complaint.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4513.361)
§ 73.15 PROHIBITION AGAINST RESISTING OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall resist, hinder, obstruct, or abuse any sheriff,
constable, or other official while that official is attempting to arrest
offenders under any provision of this Title VII. No person shall interfere with
any person charged under any provision of this Title VII with the enforcement
of the law relative to public highways.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.36)
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance, or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
§ 73.16 OPERATION RESTRICTED FOR MINI-TRUCKS AND LOW-SPEED, UNDER- SPEED, OR
UTILITY VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a low-speed vehicle upon any street or
highway having an established speed limit greater than 35 mph.
      (2)   No person shall operate an under-speed or utility vehicle or a
mini-truck upon any street or highway except as follows:
         (a)   Upon a street or highway having an established speed limit not
greater than 35 mph and only upon such streets or highways where the
municipality has granted permission for such operation in accordance with
division (E) of this section;
         (b)   A state park or political subdivision employee or volunteer
operating a utility vehicle exclusively within the boundaries of state parks or
political subdivision parks for the operation or maintenance of state or
political subdivision park facilities.
      (3)   No person shall operate a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter upon
any street or highway having an established speed limit greater than 45 mph.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   A person operating a low-speed, under-speed, or utility vehicle or
a mini-truck from proceeding across an intersection of a street or highway
having a speed limit greater than 35 mph;
      (2)   A person operating a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter from
proceeding across an intersection of a street or highway having a speed limit
greater than 45 mph.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the municipality from adopting
more stringent local ordinances, resolutions, or regulations governing the
operation of a low-speed vehicle or a mini-truck, or a motor-driven cycle or
motor scooter.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.214)
   (E)   By ordinance or resolution, the municipality may authorize the
operation of under-speed or utility vehicles or mini-trucks on a public street
or highway under its jurisdiction. The municipality shall do all of the
following:
      (1)   Limit the operation of those vehicles to streets and highways
having an established speed limit not greater than 35 mph;
      (2)   Require the vehicle owner who wishes to operate an under-speed or
utility vehicle or a mini-truck on the public streets or highways to submit the
vehicle to an inspection conducted by a local law enforcement agency that
complies with inspection requirements established by the Department of Public
Safety under R.C. § 4513.02;
      (3)   Permit the operation on public streets or highways of only those
vehicles that successfully pass the required vehicle inspection, are registered
in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4503, and are titled in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 4505;
      (4)   Notify the Director of Public Safety, in a manner the Director
determines, of the authorization for the operation of under-speed or utility
vehicles or mini-trucks.
   (F)   The municipality may establish additional requirements for the
operation of under-speed or utility vehicles or mini-trucks on its streets and
highways.
(R.C. § 4511.215)
   (G)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (F) of this section, a person
may operate a utility vehicle on any public roads or right-of-way, other than a
freeway, when traveling from one farm field to another for agricultural
purposes if the vehicle is displaying a triangular slow-moving vehicle emblem
as described in R.C. § 4513.11.
(R.C. § 4511.216)
   (H)   (1)   Except as provided in this division (H) and divisions (E) and
(F) of this section, no person shall operate a mini-truck within this
municipality.
      (2)   A person may operate a mini-truck on a farm for agricultural
purposes only when the owner of the farm qualifies for the current agricultural
use valuation tax credit. A mini-truck may be operated by or on behalf of such
a farm owner on public roads and rights-of-way only when traveling from one
farm field to another.
      (3)   A person may operate a mini-truck on property owned or leased by a
dealer who sells mini- trucks at retail.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (H) shall be penalized as provided
in division (D) of this section.
(R.C. § 4519.401)
STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT
§ 73.30 FAILURE TO STOP AFTER ACCIDENT.
   (A)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision with
persons or property on a public road or highway, the operator of the motor
vehicle, having knowledge of the accident or collision, immediately shall stop
the operator’s motor vehicle at the scene of the accident or collision. The
operator shall remain at the scene of the accident or collision until the
operator has given the operator’s name and address and, if the operator is not
the owner, the name and address of the owner of that motor vehicle, together
with the registered number of that motor vehicle, to all of the following:
         (a)   Any person injured in the accident or collision;
         (b)   The operator, occupant, owner, or attendant of any motor vehicle
damaged in the accident or collision;
         (c)   The police officer at the scene of the accident or collision.
      (2)   In the event an injured person is unable to comprehend and record
the information required to be given under division (A)(1) of this section, the
other operator involved in the accident or collision shall notify the nearest
police authority concerning the location of the accident or collision, and the
operator’s name, address, and the registered number of the motor vehicle the
operator was operating. The operator shall remain at the scene of the accident
or collision until a police officer arrives, unless removed from the scene by
an emergency vehicle operated by a political subdivision or an ambulance.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required to be given in this section, in writing, to a
conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident. Except as otherwise provided in division (B)
(2) or (B)(3) of this section, failure to stop after an accident is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six months
of suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege required by this
division.
      (5)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.02)
§ 73.31 STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT ON OTHER THAN PUBLIC ROADS OR HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision resulting
in injury or damage to persons or property on any public or private property
other than a public road or highway, the operator of the motor vehicle, having
knowledge of the accident or collision, shall stop at the scene of the accident
or collision. Upon request of any person who is injured or damaged, or any
other person, the operator shall give that person the operator’s name and
address, and, if the operator is not the owner, the name and address of the
owner of that motor vehicle, together with the registered number of that motor
vehicle, and, if available, exhibit the operator’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license.
      (2)   If the operator of the motor vehicle involved in the accident or
collision does not provide the information specified in division (A)(1) of this
section, the operator shall give that information, within 24 hours after the
accident or collision, to the police department of the city or village in which
the accident or collision occurred, or if it occurred outside the corporate
limits of a city or village, to the sheriff of the county in which the accident
or collision occurred.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required under division (A)(1) of this section, in
writing, to a conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor
vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident. Except as otherwise provided
in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this section, failure to stop after a nonpublic
road accident is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six months
of suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege required by this
division.
      (5)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.021)
§ 73.32 ACCIDENT INVOLVING DAMAGE TO REALTY.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in
damage to real property, or personal property attached to real property,
legally upon or adjacent to a public road or highway immediately shall stop and
take reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge of the
property of that fact, of the driver’s name and address, and of the
registration number of vehicle the driver is driving and, upon request and if
available, shall exhibit the driver’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (2)   If the owner or person in charge of the property cannot be located
after reasonable search, the driver of the vehicle involved in the accident
resulting in damage to the property, within 24 hours after accident, shall
forward to the police department of the municipality the same information
required to be given to the owner or person in control of the property and give
the location of the accident and a description of the damage insofar as it is
known.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident involving the property of others, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or
after committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.03)
§ 73.33 FAILURE TO REPORT ACCIDENT.
   (A)   No person shall fail to report a motor vehicle accident as required
under state or local law.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4509.74)
CHAPTER 74: EQUIPMENT AND LOADS
Section
Equipment
   
74.01   Unsafe vehicles, prohibition against operation
   
74.02   Bumpers on motor vehicles
   
74.03   Lighted lights required
   
74.04   Headlights
   
74.05   Tail lights and illumination of rear license plate
   
74.06   Red reflectors required
   
74.07   Safety lighting of commercial vehicles
   
74.08   Stoplight regulations
   
74.09   Obscured lights on vehicles
   
74.10   Red light or flag required
   
74.11   Lights on parked vehicles
   
74.12   Lights and emblem on slow-moving vehicles; lights and reflectors on
multi-wheel agricultural tractors or farm machinery
   
74.13   Spotlight and auxiliary driving lights
   
74.14   Cowl, fender, and back-up lights
   
74.15   Two lights displayed
   
74.16   Headlights required
   
74.17   Lights of less intensity
   
74.18   Number of lights permitted; red and flashing lights
   
74.19   Standards for lights on snow removal equipment and oversize vehicles
   
74.20   Flashing lights permitted for certain types of vehicles
   
74.21   Lights and sign on transportation for preschool children
   
74.22   Focus and aim of headlights
   
74.23   Brake equipment; specifications
   
74.24   Brake fluid
   
74.25   Minimum standards for brakes and components
   
74.26   Horns, sirens, and warning devices
   
74.27   Mufflers; excessive smoke or gas
   
74.28   Rearview mirrors
   
74.29   Windshields and wipers
   
74.30   Solid tire requirements
   
74.31   Requirements for safety glass in motor vehicles; use of tinted glass or
reflectorized material
   
74.32   Directional signals
   
74.33   Installation and sale of seat safety belts required; definition
   
74.34   Requirements for extra signal equipment
   
74.35   Display of warning devices on disabled vehicles
   
74.36   Requirements for vehicles transporting explosives
   
74.37   Studded tires; seasonal use permitted
   
74.38   Safety inspection decals for buses
   
74.39   Air bags
Loads
   
74.50   Permit required to exceed load limits
   
74.51   Limitation of load extension on left side of vehicle
   
74.52   All loads shall be properly secured
   
74.53   Towing requirements; exception to size and weight restrictions
   
74.54   Weighing of vehicle; removal of excess load
   
74.55   Operation of vehicle exceeding weight limits prohibited
   
74.56   Load limits
   
74.57   Maximum width, height, and length
   
74.58   Statement of gross vehicle weight
   
74.59   Wheel protectors required on heavy commercial vehicles
   
74.60   Liability for damages; prosecution; application of monies
   
74.61   Weight exceptions for certain vehicles
Statutory reference:
   Exemption of certain vehicles from emission, noise control and fuel
standards, see R.C. § 4513.41
   Exemption of collector’s or historical vehicles from equipment standards,
see R.C. § 4513.38
   Motorcycles, protective eye devices required for operators and passengers;
helmets required for persons under 18 years of age, see O.A.C. § 4501-17-01
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Snowmobiles and all-purpose vehicles, equipment, see O.A.C. § 4501-29-01
   Vehicle lighting, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-15
EQUIPMENT
§ 74.01 UNSAFE VEHICLES, PROHIBITION AGAINST OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall drive or move, or cause or knowingly permit to be
driven or moved, on any highway any vehicle or combination of vehicles which is
in such unsafe condition as to endanger any person.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.02(A), (H))
§ 74.02 BUMPERS ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING. Means the manufacturer’s gross vehicle
weight rating established for that vehicle.
      MANUFACTURER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      MULTIPURPOSE PASSENGER VEHICLE. Means a motor vehicle with motive power,
except a motorcycle, designed to carry ten persons or less, that is constructed
either on a truck chassis or with special features for occasional off-road
operation.
      PASSENGER CAR. Means any motor vehicle with motive power, designed for
carrying ten persons or less, except a multipurpose passenger vehicle or
motorcycle.
      TRUCK. Means every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers,
designed and used to carry property and having a gross vehicle weight rating of
10,000 pounds or less.
   (B)   Rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety, in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 119, shall govern the maximum bumper height or, in the absence of
bumpers and in cases where bumper height have been lowered or modified, the
maximum height to the bottom of the frame rail of any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck.
   (C)   No person shall operate upon a street or highway any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck registered in this state that does not
conform to the requirements of this section or any applicable rule adopted
pursuant to R.C. § 4513.021.
   (D)   No person shall modify any motor vehicle registered in this state in
such a manner as to cause the vehicle body or chassis to come in contact with
the ground, expose the fuel tank to damage from collision, or cause the wheels
to come in contact with the body under normal operation, and no person shall
disconnect any part of the original suspension system of the vehicle to defeat
the safe operation of that system.
   (E)   Nothing contained in this section or in the rules adopted pursuant to
R.C. § 4513.021 shall be construed to prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   The installation upon a passenger car, multipurpose passenger
vehicle or truck registered in this state of heavy duty equipment, including
shock absorbers and overload springs:
      (2)   The operation on a street or highway of a passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle, or truck registered in this state with normal
wear to the suspension system if the normal wear does not adversely affect the
control of the vehicle.
   (F)   This section and the rules adopted pursuant to R.C. § 4513.021 do not
apply to any specially designed or modified passenger car, multipurpose
passenger vehicle, or truck when operated off a street or highway in races and
similar events.
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.021)
Statutory reference:
   Maximum height on bumpers, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-43
§ 74.03 LIGHTED LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every vehicle, other than a motorized bicycle, operated upon a street
or highway within this state shall display lighted lights and illuminating
devices as required by R.C. §§ 4513.04 to 4513.37 during all of the following
times:
      (1)   The time from sunset to sunrise;
      (2)   At any other time when, due to insufficient natural light or
unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons, vehicles, and substantial objects
on the highway are not discernible at a distance of 1,000 feet ahead;
      (3)   At any time when the windshield wipers of the vehicle are in use
because of precipitation on the windshield.
   (B)   Every motorized bicycle shall display at such times lighted lights
meeting the rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under R.C. §
4511.521. No motor vehicle, during any time specified in this section, shall be
operated upon a street or highway within this state using only parking lights
as illumination.
   (C)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the distance
from which certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible, or within
which such lamps or devices shall be visible, such distance shall be measured
upon a straight level unlighted highway under normal atmospheric conditions
unless a different condition is expressly stated.
   (D)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the mounted
height of lights or devices, it shall mean from the center of such light or
device to the level ground upon which the vehicle stands.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a vehicle being operated upon a
street or highway within this state to stop the vehicle solely because the
officer observes that a violation of division (A)(3) of this section has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of that division, or causing the arrest of or
commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of that division.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.03)
§ 74.04 HEADLIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, shall be equipped
with at least two headlights with at least one near each side of the front of
the motor vehicle.
      (2)   Every motorcycle shall be equipped with at least one and not more
than two headlights.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.04)
§ 74.05 TAIL LIGHTS AND ILLUMINATION OF REAR LICENSE PLATE.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, pole trailer or
vehicle which is being drawn at the end of a train of vehicles shall be
equipped with at least one tail light mounted on the rear which, when lighted,
shall emit a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear,
provided that in the case of a train of vehicles only the tail light on the
rearmost vehicle need be visible from the distance specified.
      (2)   Either a tail light or a separate light shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate, when
such registration plate is required, and render it legible from a distance of
50 feet to the rear. Any tail light, together with any separate light for
illuminating the rear registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted
whenever the headlights or auxiliary driving lights are lighted, except where
separate lighting systems are provided for trailers for the purpose of
illuminating such registration plate.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.05)
§ 74.06 RED REFLECTORS REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Every new motor vehicle sold after September 6, 1941, and
operated on a highway, other than a commercial tractor to which a trailer or
semitrailer is attached, shall carry at the rear, either as a part of the tail
lamps or separately, two red reflectors meeting the requirements of this
section, except that vehicles of the type mentioned in R.C. § 4513.07 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall be equipped with reflectors
as required by the regulations provided for in that section.
      (2)   Every such reflector shall be of such size and characteristics and
so maintained as to be visible at night from all distances within 300 feet to
50 feet from such vehicle.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.06)
§ 74.07 SAFETY LIGHTING OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   When the Director of Public Safety prescribes and promulgates
regulations relating to clearance lights, marker lights, reflectors and stop
lights on buses, trucks, commercial tractors, trailers, semitrailers and pole
trailers, when operated upon any highway, these vehicles shall be equipped as
required by such regulations, and such equipment shall be lighted at all times
mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
except that clearance lights and side marker lights need not be lighted on any
such vehicle when it is operated within the municipality where there is
sufficient light to reveal any person or substantial object on the highway at a
distance of 500 feet.
      (2)   Such equipment shall be in addition to all other lights
specifically required by R.C. §§ 4513.03 through 4513.16, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinances.
      (3)   Vehicles operated under the jurisdiction of the Public Utilities
Commission are not subject to this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.07)
§ 74.08 STOPLIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, and pole trailer when
operated upon a highway shall be equipped with two or more stop lights, except
that passenger cars manufactured or assembled prior to January 1, 1967,
motorcycles, and motor-driven cycles shall be equipped with at least one stop
light. Stop lights shall be mounted on the rear of the vehicle, actuated upon
application of the service brake, and may be incorporated with other rear
lights. Such stop lights when actuated shall emit a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear; provided that in the case of a train of
vehicles only the stop lights on the rearmost vehicle need be visible from the
distance specified.
      (2)   Such stop lights when actuated shall give a steady warning light to
the rear of a vehicle or train of vehicles to indicate the intention of the
operator to diminish the speed of or stop a vehicle or train of vehicles.
      (3)   When stop lights are used as required by this section, they shall
be constructed or installed so as to provide adequate and reliable illumination
and shall conform to the appropriate rules and regulations established under
R.C. § 4513.19.
      (4)   Historical motor vehicles as defined in R.C. § 4503.181, not
originally manufactured with stop lights, are not subject to this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.071)
§ 74.09 OBSCURED LIGHTS ON VEHICLES.
   Whenever motor and other vehicles are operated in combination during the
time that lights are required, any light, except tail lights, which by reason
of its location on a vehicle of the combination would be obscured by another
vehicle of the combination, need not be lighted, but this section does not
affect the requirement that lighted clearance lights be displayed on the front
of the foremost vehicle required to have clearance lights or that all lights
required on the rear of the rearmost vehicle of any combination shall be
lighted.
(R.C. § 4513.08)
§ 74.10 RED LIGHT OR FLAG REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet or
more beyond the bed or body of this vehicle, there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of the load, at the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, a red light or lantern plainly
visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the sides and rear. The red
light or lantern required by this section is in addition to the red rear light
required upon every vehicle. At any other time there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of such load a red flag or cloth not less than 16 inches
square.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.09)
§ 74.11 LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Except in case of an emergency, whenever a vehicle is parked or
stopped upon a roadway open to traffic or a shoulder adjacent thereto, whether
attended or unattended, during the times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, such vehicle shall be equipped
with one or more lights which shall exhibit a white or amber light on the
roadway side visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle,
and a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear. No lights need
be displayed upon any such vehicle when it is stopped or parked within the
municipality where there is sufficient light to reveal any person or
substantial object within a distance of 500 feet upon such highway. Any lighted
headlights upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or dimmed.
(R.C. § 4513.10)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.12 LIGHTS AND EMBLEM ON SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES; LIGHTS AND REFLECTORS ON
MULTI-WHEEL AGRICULTURAL TRACTORS OR FARM MACHINERY.
   (A)   All vehicles other than bicycles, including animal-drawn vehicles and
vehicles referred to in R.C. § 4513.02(G), not specifically required to be
equipped with lamps or other lighting devices by R.C. §§ 4513.03 through
4513.10, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, shall, at the
times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, be equipped with at least one lamp displaying a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the front of the vehicle and
also shall be equipped with two lamps displaying red light visible from a
distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the rear of the vehicle, or as an
alternative, one lamp displaying a red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear and two red reflectors visible from all
distances of 600 feet to 100 feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful
lower beams of headlamps. Lamps and reflectors required by this section shall
meet standards adopted by the Director of Public Safety.
   (B)   All boat trailers, farm machinery and other machinery, including all
road construction machinery, upon a street or highway, except when being used
in actual construction and maintenance work in an area guarded by a flagperson,
or where flares are used, or when operating or traveling within the limits of a
construction area designated by the Director of Transportation, a city or
village engineer, or the county engineer of the several counties, when such
construction area is marked in accordance with requirements of the Director and
the Manual and Specifications for a Uniform System of Traffic-Control Devices,
as set forth in R.C. § 4511.09, which is designed for operation at a speed of
25 mph or less, shall be operated at a speed not exceeding 25 mph, and shall
display a triangular slow-moving vehicle emblem (SMV). The emblem shall be
mounted so as to be visible from a distance of not less than 500 feet to the
rear. The Director of Public Safety shall adopt standards and specifications
for the design and position of mounting the SMV emblem. The standards and
specifications for SMV emblems referred to in this section shall correlate with
and, so far as possible, conform with those approved by the American Society of
Agricultural Engineers. A unit of farm machinery that is designed by its
manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 mph may be operated on a
street or highway at a speed greater than 25 mph provided it is operated in
accordance with this section. As used in this division, “machinery” does not
include any vehicle designed to be drawn by an animal.
   (C)   The use of the SMV emblem shall be restricted to animal-drawn vehicles
and to the slow- moving vehicles specified in division (B) of this section
operating or traveling within the limits of the highway. Its use on slow-moving
vehicles being transported upon other types of vehicles or on any other type of
vehicle or stationary object on the highway is prohibited.
   (D)   (1)   No person shall sell, lease, rent or operate any boat trailer,
farm machinery or other machinery defined as a slow-moving vehicle in division
(B) of this section, except those units designed to be completely mounted on a
primary power unit, which is manufactured or assembled on or after April 1,
1966, unless the vehicle is equipped with a slow-moving vehicle emblem mounting
device as specified in division (B) of this section.
      (2)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate on a street or
highway any unit of farm machinery that is designed by its manufacturer to
operate at a speed greater than 25 mph unless the unit displays a slow-moving
vehicle emblem as specified in division (B) of this section and a speed
identification symbol that meets the specifications contained in the American
Society of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S584 JAN2005, Agricultural
Equipment: Speed Identification Symbol (SIS).
   (E)   Any boat trailer, farm machinery or other machinery defined as a slow-
moving vehicle in division (B) of this section, in addition to the use of the
slow-moving vehicle emblem, and any unit of farm machinery that is designed by
its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 mph, in addition to the
display of a speed identification symbol, may be equipped with a red flashing
light that shall be visible from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the
rear at all times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. When a double-faced light is used, it shall display amber
light to the front and red light to the rear. In addition to the lights
described in this division, farm machinery and motor vehicles escorting farm
machinery may display a flashing, oscillating or rotating amber light, as
permitted by R.C. § 4513.17 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
and also may display simultaneously flashing turn signals or warning lights, as
permitted by that section.
   (F)   (1)   Every animal-drawn vehicle upon a street or highway shall at all
times be equipped in one of the following ways:
         (a)   With a slow-moving vehicle emblem complying with division (B) of
this section;
         (b)   With alternate reflective material complying with rules adopted
under division (F)(2) below;
         (c)   With both a slow-moving vehicle emblem and alternate reflective
material as specified in division (F)(2) below.
      (2)   Rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety, subject to R.C.
Chapter 119, establishing standards and specifications for the position of
mounting of the alternate reflective material authorized by this division,
permit, as a minimum, the alternate reflective material to be black, gray, or
silver in color. The alternate reflective material shall be mounted on the
animal-drawn vehicle so as to be visible, at all times specified in R.C. §
4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, from a distance of
not less than 500 feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful lower beams
of headlamps.
   (G)   (1)   Every unit of farm machinery that is designed by its
manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 mph shall display a slow-
moving vehicle emblem and a speed identification symbol that meets the
specifications contained in the American Society of Agricultural Engineers
Standard ANSI/ASAE S584 JAN2005, Agricultural Equipment: Speed Identification
Symbol (SIS) when the unit is operated upon a street or highway, irrespective
of the speed at which the unit is operated on the street or highway. The speed
identification symbol shall indicate the maximum speed in miles per hour at
which the unit of farm machinery is designed by its manufacturer to operate.
The display of the speed identification symbol shall be in accordance with the
standard prescribed in this division.
      (2)   If an agricultural tractor that is designed by its manufacturer to
operate at a speed greater than 25 mph is being operated on a street or highway
at a speed greater than 25 mph and is towing, pulling, or otherwise drawing a
unit of farm machinery, the unit of farm machinery shall display a slow- moving
vehicle emblem and a speed identification symbol that is the same as the speed
identification symbol that is displayed on the agricultural tractor.
   (H)   When an agricultural tractor that is designed by its manufacturer to
operate at a speed greater than 25 mph is being operated on a street or highway
at a speed greater than 25 mph, the operator shall possess some documentation
published or provided by the manufacturer indicating the maximum speed in miles
per hour at which the manufacturer designed the agricultural tractor to
operate.
   (I)   As used in this section, BOAT TRAILER means any vehicle designed and
used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage and a marina,
or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or highway for a
distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 mph or less.
(R.C. § 4513.11)
   (J)   Lights and reflector requirements for multi-wheel agricultural
tractors or farm machinery.
      (1)   (a)   Every multi-wheel agricultural tractor whose model year was
2001 or earlier, when being operated or traveling on a street or highway at the
times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, at a minimum shall be equipped with and display reflectors and
illuminated amber lamps so that the extreme left and right projections of the
tractor are indicated by flashing lamps displaying amber light, visible to the
front and the rear; by amber reflectors, all visible to the front; and by red
reflectors, all visible to the rear.
         (b)   The lamps displaying amber light need not flash simultaneously
and need not flash in conjunction with any directional signals of the tractor.
         (c)   The lamps and reflectors required by division (J)(1)(a) of this
section and their placement shall meet standards and specifications contained
in rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 119. The rules governing the amber lamps, amber reflectors, and red
reflectors and their placement shall correlate with and, as far as possible,
conform with paragraphs 4.1.4.1, 4.1.7.1, and 4.1.7.2, respectively, of the
American Society of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S279.10 OCT98,
Lighting and Marking of Agricultural Equipment on Highways.
      (2)   Every unit of farm machinery whose model year was 2002 or later,
when being operated or traveling on a street or highway at the times specified
in R.C. § 4513.03, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be
equipped with and display markings and illuminated lamps that meet or exceed
the lighting, illumination, and marking standards and specifications that are
applicable to that type of farm machinery for the unit’s model year specified
in the American Society of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S279.11
APR01, Lighting and Marking of Agricultural Equipment on Highways, or any
subsequent revisions of that standard.
      (3)   The lights and reflectors required by division (J)(1) of this
section are in addition to the slow-moving vehicle emblem and lights required
or permitted by R.C. § 4513.11 or 4513.17, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, to be displayed on farm machinery being operated or
traveling on a street or highway.
      (4)   No person shall operate any unit of farm machinery on a street or
highway or cause any unit of farm machinery to travel on a street or highway in
violation of divisions (J)(1) or (J)(2) of this section.
(R.C. § 4513.111)
   (K)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4513.11(I), 4513.111(E))
§ 74.13 SPOTLIGHT AND AUXILIARY DRIVING LIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one
spotlight and every lighted spotlight shall be so aimed and used upon
approaching another vehicle that no part of the high-intensity portion of the
beam will be directed to the left of the prolongation of the extreme left side
of the vehicle, nor more than 100 feet ahead of the vehicle.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than three
auxiliary driving lights mounted on the front of the vehicle. Any such lights
which do not conform to the specifications for auxiliary driving lights and the
regulations for their use prescribed by the Director of Public Safety shall not
be used.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.12)
§ 74.14 COWL, FENDER, AND BACK-UP LIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with side cowl or fender
lights which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with lights on each side thereof
which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (3)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with back-up lights, either
separately or in combination with another light. No back-up lights shall be
continuously lighted when the motor vehicle is in forward motion.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.13)
§ 74.15 TWO LIGHTS DISPLAYED.
   (A)   At all times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, at least two lighted lights shall be displayed, one near
each side of the front of every motor vehicle, except when such vehicle is
parked subject to the regulations governing lights on parked vehicles.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.14)
§ 74.16 HEADLIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated on a roadway or shoulder
adjacent thereto during the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the driver shall use a
distribution of light, or composite beam, directed high enough and of
sufficient intensity to reveal persons, vehicles and substantial objects at a
safe distance in advance of the vehicle, subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle,
such driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam, so aimed that
the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the oncoming driver.
      (2)   Every new motor vehicle registered in this state which has
multiple-beam road lighting equipment shall be equipped with a beam indicator,
which shall be lighted whenever the uppermost distribution of light from the
headlights is in use, and shall not otherwise be lighted. This indicator shall
be so designed and located that, when lighted, it will be readily visible
without glare to the driver of the vehicle.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.15)
§ 74.17 LIGHTS OF LESS INTENSITY.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle may be operated under the conditions specified in
R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance when it is
equipped with two lighted lights upon the front thereof capable of revealing
persons and substantial objects 75 feet ahead, in lieu of lights required in
R.C. § 4513.14 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, provided that
such vehicle shall not be operated at a speed in excess of 20 mph.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.16)
§ 74.18 NUMBER OF LIGHTS PERMITTED; RED AND FLASHING LIGHTS.
   (A)   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with headlights is also equipped
with any auxiliary lights or spotlight or any other light on the front thereof
projecting a beam of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower, not more than a
total of five of any such lights on the front of a vehicle shall be lighted at
any one time when the vehicle is upon a highway.
   (B)   Any lighted light or illuminating device upon a motor vehicle, other
than headlights, spotlights, signal lights, or auxiliary driving lights, that
projects a beam of light of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower shall be
so directed that no part of the beam will strike the level of the roadway on
which the vehicle stands at a distance of more than 75 feet from the vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   Flashing lights are prohibited on motor vehicles, except as a
means for indicating a right or a left turn, or in the presence of vehicular
traffic hazard requiring unusual care in approaching, or overtaking or passing.
This prohibition does not apply to emergency vehicles, road service vehicles
servicing or towing a disabled vehicle, stationary waste collection vehicles
actively collecting garbage, refuse, trash, or recyclable materials on the
roadside, rural mail delivery vehicles, vehicles as provided in R.C. § 4513.182
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, highway maintenance
vehicles, funeral hearses, funeral escort vehicles, and similar equipment
operated by the Department or local authorities, which shall be equipped with
and display, when used on a street or highway for the special purpose
necessitating such lights, a flashing, oscillating or rotating amber light, but
shall not display a flashing, oscillating or rotating light of any other color,
nor to vehicles or machinery permitted by R.C. § 4513.11 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to have a flashing red light.
      (2)   When used on a street or highway, farm machinery and vehicles
escorting farm machinery may be equipped with and display a flashing,
oscillating or rotating amber light, and the prohibition contained in division
(C)(1) of this section does not apply to such machinery or vehicles. Farm
machinery may also display the lights described in R.C. § 4513.11 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Except a person operating a public safety vehicle, as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01(E), or a school bus, no person shall operate, move, or park upon or
permit to stand within the right-of-way of any public street or highway any
vehicle or equipment that is equipped with and displaying a flashing red or a
flashing combination red and white light, or an oscillating or rotating red
light, or a combination red and white oscillating or rotating light; and except
a public law enforcement officer, or other person sworn to enforce the criminal
and traffic laws of the state, operating a public safety vehicle when on duty,
no person shall operate, move or park upon or permit to stand within the right-
of-way of any street or highway any vehicle or equipment that is equipped with,
or upon which is mounted, and displaying a flashing blue or a flashing
combination blue and white light, or an oscillating or rotating blue light, or
a combination blue and white oscillating or rotating light.
   (E)   This section does not prohibit the use of warning lights required by
law or the simultaneous flashing of turn signals on disabled vehicles or on
vehicles being operated in unfavorable atmospheric conditions in order to
enhance their visibility. This section also does not prohibit the simultaneous
flashing of turn signals or warning lights whether on farm machinery or
vehicles escorting farm machinery when used on a street or highway.
(R.C. § 4513.17)
   (F)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a motor vehicle
operated by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator may be equipped
with a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and siren, whistle
or bell capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a
distance of not less than 500 feet. Such a vehicle may display the flashing,
oscillating or rotating red or blue light and may give the audible signal of
the siren, whistle or bell only when responding to a fatality or a fatal motor
vehicle accident on a street or highway and only at those locations where the
stoppage of traffic impedes the ability of the coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator to arrive at the site of the fatality.
      (2)   This division (F) does not relieve the coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with
due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4513.171)
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4513.17(F), 4513.171(B))
§ 74.19 STANDARDS FOR LIGHTS ON SNOW REMOVAL EQUIPMENT AND OVERSIZE VEHICLES.
   (A)   It is unlawful to operate snow removal equipment on a highway unless
the lights thereon comply with and are lighted when and as required by the
standards and specifications adopted by the Director of Transportation pursuant
to R.C. § 4513.18.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.18)
§ 74.20 FLASHING LIGHTS PERMITTED FOR CERTAIN TYPES OF VEHICLES.
   Rural mail delivery vehicles, state highway survey vehicles, and funeral
escort vehicles are permitted to use flashing lights.
(R.C. § 4513.181)
§ 74.21 LIGHTS AND SIGN ON TRANSPORTATION FOR PRESCHOOL CHILDREN.
   (A)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle owned, leased, or hired by a
nursery school, kindergarten, or day-care center, while transporting preschool
children to or from such an institution unless the motor vehicle is equipped
with and displaying two amber flashing lights mounted on a bar attached to the
top of the vehicle, and a sign bearing the designation “caution – children”,
which shall be attached to the bar carrying the amber flashing lights in such a
manner as to be legible to persons both in front of and behind the vehicle. The
lights and sign shall meet standards and specifications adopted by the Director
of Public Safety.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle displaying the lights and sign
required by this section for any purpose other than the transportation of
preschool children as provided in this section.
(R.C. § 4513.182)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.22 FOCUS AND AIM OF HEADLIGHTS.
   (A)   No person shall use any lights mentioned in R.C. §§ 4513.03 through
4513.18, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, upon any motor
vehicle, trailer or semitrailer unless these lights are equipped, mounted and
adjusted as to focus and aim in accordance with regulations which are
prescribed by the Director of Public Safety.
   (B)   The headlights on any motor vehicle shall comply with the headlamp
color requirements contained in Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number
108, 49 C.F.R. § 571.108. No person shall operate a motor vehicle in violation
of this division.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.19)
§ 74.23 BRAKE EQUIPMENT; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The following requirements govern as to brake equipment on vehicles:
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, when operated upon a
highway shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and
to stop and hold the motor vehicle, including two separate means of applying
the brakes, each of which means shall be effective to apply the brakes to at
least two wheels. If these two separate means of applying the brakes are
connected in any way, then on such motor vehicles, manufactured or assembled
after January 1, 1942, they shall be so constructed that failure of any one
part of the operating mechanism shall not leave the motor vehicle without
brakes on at least two wheels.
      (2)   Every motorcycle, when operated upon a highway shall be equipped
with at least one adequate brake, which may be operated by hand or by foot.
      (3)   Every motorized bicycle shall be equipped with brakes meeting the
rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety under R.C. § 4511.521.
      (4)   When operated upon the highways, the following vehicles shall be
equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and to
hold the vehicle, designed to be applied by the driver of the towing motor
vehicle from its cab, and also designed and connected so that, in case of a
breakaway of the towed vehicle, the brakes shall be automatically applied:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every trailer or
semitrailer, except a pole trailer, with an empty weight of 2,000 pounds or
more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1942;
         (b)   Every manufactured home or travel trailer with an empty weight
of 2,000 pounds or more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 2001.
      (5)   Every watercraft trailer with a gross weight or manufacturer’s
gross vehicle weight rating of 3,000 pounds or more that is manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 2008, shall have separate brakes equipped with
hydraulic surge or electrically operated brakes on two wheels.
      (6)   In any combination of motor-drawn trailers or semitrailers equipped
with brakes, means shall be provided for applying the rearmost brakes in
approximate synchronism with the brakes on the towing vehicle, and developing
the required braking effort on the rearmost wheels at the fastest rate; or
means shall be provided for applying braking effort first on the rearmost
brakes; or both of the above means, capable of being used alternatively, may be
employed.
      (7)   Every vehicle and combination of vehicles, except motorcycles and
motorized bicycles, and except trailers and semitrailers of a gross weight of
less than 2,000 pounds, and pole trailers, shall be equipped with parking
brakes adequate to hold the vehicle on any grade on which it is operated, under
all conditions of loading, on a surface free from snow, ice, or loose material.
The parking brakes shall be capable of being applied in conformance with the
foregoing requirements by the driver’s muscular effort or by spring action or
by equivalent means. Their operation may be assisted by the service brakes or
other source of power provided that failure of the service brake actuation
system or other power assisting mechanism will not prevent the parking brakes
from being applied in conformance with the foregoing requirements. The parking
brakes shall be so designed that when once applied they shall remain applied
with the required effectiveness despite exhaustion of any source of energy or
leakage of any kind.
      (8)   The same brake drums, brake shoes and lining assemblies, brake shoe
anchors, and mechanical brake shoe actuation mechanism normally associated with
the wheel brake assemblies may be used for both the service brakes and the
parking brakes. If the means of applying the parking brakes and the service
brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that failure of
any one part shall not leave the vehicle without operative brakes.
      (9)   Every motor vehicle or combination of motor-drawn vehicles shall,
at all times and under all conditions of loading, be capable of being stopped
on a dry, smooth, level road free from loose material, upon application of the
service or foot brake, within the following specified distances, or shall be
capable of being decelerated at a sustained rate corresponding to these
distances:
         (a)   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles having brakes on all wheels
shall come to a stop in 30 feet or less from a speed of 20 mph.
         (b)   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles not having brakes on all
wheels shall come to a stop in 40 feet or less from a speed of 20 mph.
      (10)   All brakes shall be maintained in good working order and shall be
so adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with respect to the wheels
on opposite sides of the vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.20)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.24 BRAKE FLUID.
   (A)   No hydraulic brake fluid for use in motor vehicles shall be sold in
this municipality if the brake fluid is below the minimum standard of
specifications for heavy duty type brake fluid established by the society of
automotive engineers and the standard of specifications established by 49
C.F.R. § 571.116, as amended.
   (B)   All manufacturers, packers, or distributors of brake fluid selling
such fluid in this municipality shall state on the containers that the brake
fluid meets or exceeds the applicable minimum SAE standard of specifications,
and the standard of specifications established in 49 C.F.R. § 571.116, as
amended.
(R.C. § 4513.201)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.25 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR BRAKES AND COMPONENTS.
   (A)   No brake lining, brake lining material, or brake lining assemblies for
use as repair and replacement parts in motor vehicles shall be sold in this
municipality if these items do not meet or exceed the minimum standard of
specifications established by the Society of Automotive Engineers and the
standard of specifications established in 49 C.F.R. § 571.105, as amended, and
49 C.F.R. § 571.135, as amended.
   (B)   All manufacturers or distributors of brake lining, brake lining
material, or brake lining assemblies selling these items for use as repair and
replacement parts in motor vehicles shall state that the items meet or exceed
the applicable minimum standard of specifications.
   (C)   As used in this section, MINIMUM STANDARD OF SPECIFICATIONS means a
minimum standard for brake system or brake component performance that meets the
need for motor vehicle safety and complies with the applicable SAE standards
and recommended practices, and the federal motor vehicle safety standards that
cover the same aspect of performance for any brake lining, brake lining
material, or brake lining assemblies.
(R.C. § 4513.202)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.26 HORNS, SIRENS, AND WARNING DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a highway shall be
equipped with a horn which is in good working order and capable of emitting
sound audible, under normal conditions, from a distance of not less than 200
feet.
      (2)   No motor vehicle shall be equipped with, nor shall any person use
upon a vehicle, any siren, whistle, or bell. Any vehicle may be equipped with a
theft alarm signal device which shall be so arranged that it cannot be used as
an ordinary warning signal. Every emergency vehicle shall be equipped with a
siren, whistle or bell, capable of emitting sound audible under normal
conditions from a distance of not less than 500 feet and of a type approved by
the Director of Public Safety. Such equipment shall not be used except when
such vehicle is operated in response to an emergency call or is in the
immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law, in which case
the driver of the emergency vehicle shall sound such equipment when it is
necessary to warn pedestrians and other drivers of the approach thereof.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.21)
§ 74.27 MUFFLERS; EXCESSIVE SMOKE OR GAS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle with an internal combustion
engine shall at all times be equipped with a muffler which is in good working
order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise, and no
person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device upon a motor
vehicle on a highway. Every motorcycle muffler shall be equipped with baffle
plates.
      (2)   No person shall own, operate or have in the person’s possession any
motor vehicle or motorcycle equipped with a device for producing excessive
smoke or gas, or so equipped as to permit oil or any other chemical to flow
into or upon the exhaust pipe or muffler of such vehicle, or equipped in any
way to produce or emit smoke or dangerous or annoying gases from any portion of
such vehicle, other than the ordinary gases emitted by the exhaust of an
internal combustion engine under normal operation.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.22)
§ 74.28 REARVIEW MIRRORS.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle shall be equipped with a mirror so
located as to reflect to the operator a view of the highway to the rear of such
vehicle or motorcycle. Operators of vehicles and motorcycles shall have a clear
and unobstructed view to the front and to both sides of their vehicles and
motorcycles and shall have a clear view to the rear of their vehicles and
motorcycles by mirror.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.23)
§ 74.29 WINDSHIELDS AND WIPERS.
   (A)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle on a street or highway in this
municipality, other than a motorcycle or motorized bicycle, that is not
equipped with a windshield.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle, other than a bus, with
any sign, poster, or other nontransparent material upon the front windshield,
sidewings, side, or rear windows of such vehicle other than a certificate or
other paper required to be displayed by law, except that there may be in the
lower left-hand or right-hand corner of the windshield a sign, poster, or decal
not to exceed four inches in height by six inches in width. No sign, poster, or
decal shall be displayed in the front windshield in such a manner as to conceal
the vehicle identification number for the motor vehicle when, in accordance
with federal law, that number is located inside the vehicle passenger
compartment and so placed as to be readable through the vehicle glazing without
moving any part of the vehicle.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a passenger car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if the
device meets both of the following:
         (a)   It does not restrict the vehicle operator’s sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals.
         (b)   It does not conceal the vehicle identification number.
      (3)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a commercial car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if the
device meets both of the following:
         (a)   It does not restrict the vehicle operator’s sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals.
         (b)   It is mounted not more than six inches below the upper edge of
the windshield and is outside the area swept by the vehicle’s windshield
wipers.
   (C)   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for cleaning rain, snow, or other moisture from the windshield. The device
shall be maintained in good working order and so constructed as to be
controlled or operated by the operator of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.24)
§ 74.30 SOLID TIRE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every solid tire, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, on a vehicle shall
have rubber or other resilient material on its entire traction surface at least
one inch thick above the edge of the flange of the entire periphery.
(R.C. § 4513.25)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.31 REQUIREMENTS FOR SAFETY GLASS IN MOTOR VEHICLES; USE OF TINTED GLASS OR
REFLECTORIZED MATERIAL.
   (A)   Safety glass.
      (1)   No person shall sell any new motor vehicle nor shall any new motor
vehicle be registered, and no person shall operate any motor vehicle, which is
registered in this state and which has been manufactured or assembled on or
after January 1, 1936, unless the motor vehicle is equipped with safety glass,
wherever glass is used in the windshields, doors, partitions, rear windows, and
windows on each side immediately adjacent to the rear window.
      (2)   As used in this section, SAFETY GLASS means any product composed of
glass so manufactured, fabricated, or treated as substantially to prevent
shattering and flying of the glass when it is struck or broken, or such other
or similar product as may be approved by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles.
      (3)   Glass other than safety glass shall not be offered for sale, or
sold for use in, or installed in any door, window, partition, or windshield
that is required by this section to be equipped with safety glass.
(R.C. § 4513.26)
   (B)   Tinted or reflectorized material.
      (1)   No person shall operate, on any highway or other public or private
property open to the public for vehicular travel or parking, lease, or rent any
motor vehicle that is registered in this state unless the motor vehicle
conforms to the requirements concerning tinted glass and reflectorized material
of R.C. § 4513.241 and of any applicable rule adopted under that section.
      (2)   No person shall install in or on any motor vehicle, any glass or
other material that fails to conform to the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or
of any rule adopted under that section.
      (3)   (a)   No used motor vehicle dealer or new motor vehicle dealer, as
defined in R.C. § 4517.01, shall sell any motor vehicle that fails to conform
to the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or of any rule adopted under that
section.
         (b)   No manufacturer, remanufacturer, or distributor, as defined in
R.C. § 4517.01, shall provide to a motor vehicle dealer licensed under R.C.
Chapter 4517 or to any other person, a motor vehicle that fails to conform to
the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or of any rule adopted under that section.
      (4)   No reflectorized materials shall be permitted upon or in any front
windshield, side windows, sidewings, or rear window.
      (5)   This division (B) does not apply to the manufacturer’s tinting or
glazing of motor vehicle windows or windshields that is otherwise in compliance
with or permitted by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard #205.
      (6)   With regard to any side window behind a driver’s seat or any rear
window other than any window on an emergency door, this division (B) does not
apply to any school bus used to transport a child with disabilities pursuant to
R.C. Chapter 3323, whom it is impossible or impractical to transport by regular
school bus in the course of regular route transportation provided by a school
district. As used in this division, CHILD WITH DISABILITIES has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 3323.01.
      (7)   This division (B) does not apply to any school bus that is to be
sold and operated outside the municipality.
      (8)   (a)   This division (B) does not apply to a motor vehicle used by a
law enforcement agency under either of the following circumstances:
            1.   The vehicle does not have distinctive markings of a law
enforcement vehicle but is operated by or on behalf of the law enforcement
agency in an authorized investigation or other activity requiring that the
presence and identity of the vehicle occupants be undisclosed.
            2.   The vehicle primarily is used by the law enforcement canine
unit for transporting a police dog.
         (b)   As used in this division, LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY means a police
department, the office of a sheriff, the State Highway Patrol, a county
prosecuting attorney, or a federal, state, or local governmental body that
enforces criminal laws and that has employees who have a statutory power of
arrest.
(R.C. § 4513.241(C) - (J))
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1),(B)(3)(b) or (B)(4) of this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(3)(a) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor if the dealer or the dealer’s agent knew of the nonconformity
at the time of sale.
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, except that an organization may not be
convicted unless the act of installation was authorized by the board of
directors, trustees, partners, or by a high managerial officer acting on behalf
of the organization, and installation was performed by an employee of the
organization acting within the scope of the person’s employment.
         (b)   In addition to any other penalty imposed under this section,
whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is liable in a civil action to
the owner of a motor vehicle on which was installed the nonconforming glass or
material for any damages incurred by that person as a result of the
installation of the nonconforming glass or material, costs of maintaining the
civil action, and attorney fees.
         (c)   In addition to any other penalty imposed under this section, if
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation
of division (B)(2) of this section and the offender is a motor vehicle repair
operator registered under R.C. Chapter 4775 or a motor vehicle dealer licensed
under R.C. Chapter 4517, whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is
subject to a registration or license suspension, as applicable, for a period of
not more than 180 days.
(R.C. § 4513.241(K))
Statutory reference:
   Recording and reporting violations, certain court requirements, see R.C. §
4513.241(L)
   Regulations, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-41
§ 74.32 DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 1954, unless the vehicle is equipped with
electrical or mechanical directional signals.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motorcycle or motor-driven cycle
manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1968, unless the vehicle is
equipped with electrical or mechanical directional signals.
   (B)   As used in this section, DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS means an electrical or
mechanical signal device capable of clearly indicating an intention to turn
either to the right or to the left and which shall be visible from both the
front and rear.
   (C)   All mechanical signal devices shall be self-illuminating devices when
in use at the times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.261)
§ 74.33 INSTALLATION AND SALE OF SEAT SAFETY BELTS REQUIRED; DEFINITION.
   (A)   As used in this section and in R.C. § 4513.263 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the component parts of a seat safety belt
include a belt, anchor attachment assembly, and a buckle or closing device.
   (B)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate any passenger car, as
defined in R.C. § 4501.01(E), that is registered or to be registered in this
state and that is manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1962, unless
the passenger car is equipped with sufficient anchorage units at the attachment
points for attaching at least two sets of seat safety belts to its front seat.
Such anchorage units at the attachment points shall be of such construction,
design, and strength to support a loop load pull of not less than 4,000 pounds
for each belt.
   (C)   No person shall sell, lease, or rent any passenger car, as defined in
R.C. § 4501.01(E), that is registered or to be registered in this state and
that is manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1966, unless the
passenger car has installed in its front seat at least two seat safety belt
assemblies.
   (D)   After January 1, 1966, neither any seat safety belt for use in a motor
vehicle nor any component part of any such seat safety belt shall be sold in
this municipality unless the seat safety belt or the component part satisfies
the minimum standard of specifications established by the society of automotive
engineers for automotive seat belts and unless the seat safety belt or
component part is labeled so as to indicate that it meets those minimum
standard specifications.
   (E)   Each sale, lease, or rental in violation of this section constitutes a
separate offense.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.262)
Statutory reference:
   Child restraint systems, regulations, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-37
§ 74.34 REQUIREMENTS FOR EXTRA SIGNAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No person shall operate any motor truck, bus, or commercial tractor
upon any highway at any time from sunset to sunrise unless there is carried in
such vehicle, except as provided in division (B) of this section, the following
equipment which shall be of the types approved by the Director of
Transportation.
      (1)   At least three flares or three red reflectors or three red electric
lanterns, each of which is capable of being seen and distinguished at a
distance of 500 feet under normal atmospheric conditions at nighttime;
      (2)   At least three red-burning fusees, unless red reflectors or red
electric lanterns are carried;
      (3)   At least two red cloth flags, not less than two inches square, with
standards to support them;
      (4)   The type of red reflectors shall comply with such standards and
specifications in effect on September 16, 1963, or later established by the
Interstate Commerce Commission and must be certified as meeting such standards
by Underwriters Laboratories.
   (B)   No person shall operate at the time and under the conditions stated in
this section any motor vehicle used in transporting flammable liquids in bulk,
or in transporting compressed flammable gases, unless there is carried in such
vehicle three red electric lanterns or three red reflectors meeting the
requirements stated in division (A) of this section. There shall not be carried
in any such vehicle any flare, fusee, or signal produced by a flame.
   (C)   This section does not apply to any person who operates any motor
vehicle in a work area designated by protection equipment devices that are
displayed and used in accordance with the manual adopted by the Department of
Transportation under R.C. § 4511.09.
(R.C. § 4513.27)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.35 DISPLAY OF WARNING DEVICES ON DISABLED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any motor truck, bus, commercial tractor, trailer,
semitrailer, or pole trailer is disabled upon any freeway, expressway, thruway
and connecting, entering, or exiting ramps within the municipality, at any time
when lighted lamps are required on vehicles, the operator of such vehicle shall
display the following warning devices upon the highway during the time the
vehicle is so disabled on the highway except as provided in division (B) of
this section:
      (1)   A lighted fusee shall be immediately placed on the roadway at the
traffic side of such vehicle, unless red electric lanterns or red reflectors
are displayed.
      (2)   Within the burning period of the fusee and as promptly as possible,
three lighted flares or pot torches, or three red reflectors or three red
electric lanterns shall be placed on the roadway as follows:
         (a)   One at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet in
advance of the vehicle;
         (b)   One at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet to the
rear of the vehicle, except as provided in this section, each in the center of
the lane of traffic occupied by the disabled vehicle;
         (c)   One at the traffic side of the vehicle.
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle used in transporting flammable liquids in bulk,
or in transporting compressed flammable gases, is disabled upon a highway at
any time or place mentioned in division (A) of this section, the driver of such
vehicle shall display upon the roadway the following warning devices:
      (1)   One red electric lantern or one red reflector shall be immediately
placed on the roadway at the traffic side of the vehicle;
      (2)   Two other red electric lanterns or two other red reflectors shall
be placed to the front and rear of the vehicle in the same manner prescribed
for flares in division (A) of this section.
   (C)   When a vehicle of a type specified in division (B) of this section is
disabled, the use of flares, fusees, or any signal produced by flame as warning
signals is prohibited.
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle of a type referred to in this section is disabled
upon any freeway, expressway, thruway, and connecting, entering, or exiting
ramps within the municipality, at any time when the display of fusees, flares,
red reflectors, or electric lanterns is not required, the operator of such
vehicle shall display two red flags upon the roadway in the lane of traffic
occupied by the disabled vehicle, one at a distance of 40 paces or
approximately 100 feet in advance of the vehicle, and one at a distance of 40
paces or approximately 100 feet to the rear of the vehicle, except as provided
in this section.
   (E)   The flares, fusees, lanterns, red reflectors, and flags to be
displayed as required in this section shall conform with the applicable
requirements of R.C. § 4513.27 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (F)   In the event the vehicle is disabled near a curve, crest of a hill, or
other obstruction of view, the flare, flag, reflector, or lantern in that
direction shall be placed as to afford ample warning to other users of the
highway, but in no case shall it be placed less than 40 paces or approximately
100 feet nor more than 120 paces or approximately 300 feet from the disabled
vehicle.
   (G)   This section does not apply to the operator of any vehicle in a work
area designated by protection equipment devices that are displayed and used in
accordance with the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation under
R.C. § 4511.09.
   (H)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.28)
§ 74.36 REQUIREMENTS FOR VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Any person operating any vehicle transporting explosives upon a
highway shall at all times comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   The vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side and on the
rear with the word “EXPLOSIVES” in letters not less than eight inches high, or
there shall be displayed on the rear of such vehicle a red flag not less than
24 inches square marked with the word “DANGER” in white letters six inches
high, or shall be marked or placarded in accordance with Section 177.823 of the
United States Department of Transportation regulations.
      (2)   The vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two fire
extinguishers, filled and ready for immediate use, and placed at convenient
points on such vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.29)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.37 STUDDED TIRES; SEASONAL USE PERMITTED.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, STUDDED TIRE means any tire designed
for use on a vehicle and equipped with metal studs or studs of wear-resisting
material that project beyond the tread of the traction surface of the tire.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, no person
shall operate any motor vehicle other than a public safety vehicle or school
bus that is equipped with studded tires on any street or highway in this
municipality, except during the period extending from the first day of November
of each year through the fifteenth day of April of the succeeding year.
      (2)   A person may operate a motor vehicle that is equipped with
retractable studded tires with the studs retracted at any time of the year, but
shall operate the motor vehicle with the studs extended only as provided in
division (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   This section does not apply to the use of tire chains when there is
snow or ice on the streets or highways where such chains are being used, or the
immediate vicinity thereof.
(R.C. § 5589.081)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
§ 74.38 SAFETY INSPECTION DECALS FOR BUSES.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      BUS.
         (a)   Means any vehicle used for the transportation of passengers that
meets at least one of the following:
            1.   Was originally designed by the manufacturer to transport more
than 15 passengers, including the driver;
            2.   Either the gross vehicle weight rating or the gross vehicle
weight exceeds 10,000 pounds.
         (b)   The term does not include a church bus as defined in R.C. §
4503.07 or a school bus unless the church bus or school bus is used in the
transportation of passengers by a motor carrier.
         (c)   The term also does not include any of the following:
            1.   Any vehicle operated exclusively on a rail or rails;
            2.   A trolley bus operated by electric power derived from a fixed
overhead wire furnishing local passenger transportation similar to street-
railway service;
            3.   Vehicles owned or leased by government agencies or political
subdivisions.
      MOTOR CARRIER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4923.01
(R.C. § 4513.50)
   (B)   Safety inspection decals.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, on and after
July 1, 2001, no person shall operate a bus, nor shall any person being the
owner of a bus or having supervisory responsibility for a bus, permit the
operation of any bus unless the bus displays a valid, current safety inspection
decal issued by the State Highway Patrol under R.C. § 4513.52.
      (2)   For the purpose of complying with the requirements of this section
and R.C. § 4513.52, the owner or other operator of a bus may drive the bus
directly to an inspection site conducted by the State Highway Patrol and
directly back to the person’s place of business without a valid registration
and without displaying a safety inspection decal, provided that no passengers
may occupy the bus during such operation.
(R.C. § 4513.51(A), (B))
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4513.51(D))
§ 74.39 AIR BAGS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AIR BAG. Has the same meaning as in 49 C.F.R. § 579.4, as amended.
      COUNTERFEIT AIR BAG. An air bag displaying a mark identical or similar to
the genuine mark of a motor vehicle manufacturer, without the authorization of
the motor vehicle manufacturer.
      NONFUNCTIONAL AIR BAG. Any of the following:
         (a)   A replacement air bag that has been previously deployed or
damaged;
         (b)   A replacement air bag that has an electrical fault that is
detected by the air bag diagnostic system of a vehicle after the air bag is
installed;
         (c)   A counterfeit air bag, air bag cover, or some other object that
is installed in a vehicle to deceive an owner or operator of the vehicle into
believing that a functional air bag has been installed.
   (B)   No person shall install or reinstall in any motor vehicle a
counterfeit or nonfunctional air bag or any object intended to fulfill the
function of an air bag other than an air bag that was designed in conformance
with or that is regulated by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208
for the make, model, and model year of the vehicle, knowing that the object is
not in accordance with that standard.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly manufacture, import, sell, or offer for sale
any of the following:
      (1)   A counterfeit air bag;
      (2)   A nonfunctional air bag;
      (3)   Any other object that is intended to be installed in a motor
vehicle to fulfill the function of an air bag and that is not in conformance
with Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208 for the make, model, and
model year of the vehicle in which the object is intended to be installed.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly sell, install, or reinstall a device in a
motor vehicle that causes the diagnostic system of a vehicle to inaccurately
indicate that the vehicle is equipped with a functional air bag.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) or (D) of this section is guilty
of improper replacement of a motor vehicle air bag, a misdemeanor of the first
degree on a first offense. On each subsequent offense, or if the violation
results in serious physical harm to an individual, the person is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Each manufacture, importation, installation, reinstallation, sale,
or offer for sale in violation of this section shall constitute a separate and
distinct violation.
(R.C. § 4549.20)
LOADS
§ 74.50 PERMIT REQUIRED TO EXCEED LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The municipality, with respect to highways under their
jurisdiction, upon application in writing, shall issue a special regional heavy
hauling permit authorizing the applicant to operate or move a vehicle or
combination of vehicles as follows:
         (a)   At a size or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the maximum
specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with
R.C. §§ 4513.01 to 4513.37.
         (b)   Upon any highway under the jurisdiction of municipality except
those highways with a condition insufficient to bear the weight of the vehicle
or combination of vehicles as stated in the application.
         (c)   Issuance of a special regional heavy hauling permit is subject
to the payment of a fee established by the municipality in accordance with this
section.
      (2)   In circumstances where a person is not eligible to receive a permit
under division (A)(1) of this section, the municipality, with respect to
highways under its jurisdiction, upon application in writing and for good cause
shown, may issue a special permit in writing authorizing the applicant to
operate or move a vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight of
vehicle or load exceeding the maximum specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with R.C. §§ 4513.01 through 4513.37,
upon any highway under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 715.22 and 723.01, the holder of a permit
issued by the Director of Transportation under R.C. § 4513.34 may move the
vehicle or combination of vehicles described in the permit on any highway that
is a part of the state highway system when the movement is partly within and
partly without the corporate limits of the municipality. No local authority
shall require any other permit or license or charge any license fee or other
charge against the holder of a permit for the movement of a vehicle or
combination of vehicles on any highway which is a part of the state highway
system. The Ohio Director of Transportation shall not require the holder of a
permit issued by the municipality to obtain a special permit for the movement
of vehicles or combination of vehicles on highways within the jurisdiction of
the municipality. Permits may be issued for any period of time not to exceed
one year, as the local authority in its discretion determines advisable or for
the duration of any public construction project.
   (C)   (1)   The application for a permit issued under this section shall be
in the form that the municipality prescribes. The municipality may prescribe a
permit fee to be imposed and collected when any permit described in this
section is issued. The permit fee may be in an amount sufficient to reimburse
the municipality for the administrative costs incurred in issuing the permit,
and also to cover the cost of normal and expected damage caused to the roadway
or a street or highway structure as the result of the operation of the
nonconforming vehicle or combination of vehicles.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the
Director under R.C. § 4513.34, milk transported in bulk by vehicle is deemed a
nondivisible load.
      (3)   For purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the Director
under R.C. § 4513.34, three or fewer aluminum coils, transported by a vehicle,
are deemed a nondivisible load. The Director shall adopt rules establishing
requirements for an aluminum coil permit that are substantially similar to the
requirements for a steel coil permit under O.A.C. Chapter 5501:2-1.
   (D)   The municipality shall issue a special regional heavy hauling permit
under division (A)(1) of this section upon application and payment of the
applicable fee. However, the municipality may issue or withhold a special
permit specified in division (A)(2) of this section. If a permit is to be
issued, the municipality may limit or prescribe conditions of operation for the
vehicle and may require the posting of a bond or other security conditioned
upon the sufficiency of the permit fee to compensate for damage caused to the
roadway or a street or highway structure. In addition, the municipality, as a
condition of issuance of an overweight permit, may require the applicant to
develop and enter into a mutual agreement with the municipality to compensate
for or to repair excess damage caused to the roadway by travel under the
permit.
   (E)   Every permit issued under this section shall be carried in the vehicle
or combination of vehicles to which it refers and shall be open to inspection
by any police officer or authorized agent of any authority granting the permit.
No person shall violate any of the terms of a permit.
   (F)   The Director of Transportation may debar an applicant from applying
for a special permit under this section upon a finding based on a reasonable
belief that the applicant has done any of the actions specified in R.C. §
4513.34(F).
   (G)   Notice and procedures for debarment shall be as provided in R.C. §
4513.34(G).
   (H)   (1)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to gross load limits.
      (2)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to axle load by more than 2,000 pounds per axle or group of
axles.
      (3)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to an approved route except upon order of a law enforcement
officer or authorized agent of the issuing authority.
   (I)   A permit issued by the municipality under this section for the
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles is valid for the purposes of
the vehicle operation in accordance with the conditions and limitations
specified on the permit. Such a permit is voidable by law enforcement only for
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles in violation of the weight,
dimension, or route provisions of the permit. However, a permit is not voidable
for operation in violation of a route provision of a permit if the operation is
upon the order of a law enforcement officer.
(R.C. § 4513.34)
   (J)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
Statutory reference:
   Overweight or oversized vehicles, state permit regulations, see O.A.C.
Chapter 5501:2-1
§ 74.51 LIMITATION OF LOAD EXTENSION ON LEFT SIDE OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on a highway with any load
carried on the vehicle which extends more than six inches beyond the line of
the fenders on the vehicle’s left side.
(R.C. § 4513.30)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)   
§ 74.52 ALL LOADS SHALL BE PROPERLY SECURED.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless the vehicle
is so constructed, loaded, or covered as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, sifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand
or other substances may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or
water or other substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or
maintaining the roadway.
   (B)   Except for a farm vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or
agricultural production materials or a rubbish vehicle in the process of
acquiring its load, no vehicle loaded with garbage, swill, cans, bottles, waste
paper, ashes, refuse, trash, rubbish, waste, wire, paper, cartons, boxes,
glass, solid waste, or any other material of an unsanitary nature that is
susceptible to blowing or bouncing from a moving vehicle shall be driven or
moved on any highway unless the load is covered with a sufficient cover to
prevent the load or any part of the load from spilling onto the highway.
(R.C. § 4513.31)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.53 TOWING REQUIREMENTS; EXCEPTION TO SIZE AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   When one vehicle is towing another vehicle, the drawbar or other
connection shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight towed
thereby, and the drawbar or other connection shall not exceed 15 feet from one
vehicle to the other, except the connection between any two vehicles
transporting poles, pipe, machinery, or other objects of structural nature
which cannot readily be dismembered.
      (2)   When one vehicle is towing another and the connection consists only
of a chain, rope, or cable, there shall be displayed upon such connection a
white flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square.    
      (3)   In addition to such drawbar or other connection, each trailer and
each semitrailer which is not connected to a commercial tractor by means of a
fifth wheel shall be coupled with stay chains or cables to the vehicle by which
it is being drawn. These chains or cables shall be of sufficient size and
strength to prevent the towed vehicle’s parting from the drawing vehicle in
case the drawbar or other connection should break or become disengaged. In case
of a loaded pole trailer, the connecting pole to the drawing vehicle shall be
coupled to the drawing vehicle with stay chains or cables of sufficient size
and strength to prevent the towed vehicle’s parting from the drawing vehicle.
      (4)   Every trailer or semitrailer, except pole and cable trailers and
pole and cable dollies operated by a public utility as defined in R.C. §
5727.01, shall be equipped with a coupling device which shall be so designed
and constructed that the trailer will follow substantially in the path of the
vehicle drawing it, without whipping or swerving from side to side. Vehicles
used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production materials
between a local place of storage and supply and the farm, when drawn or towed
on a street or highway at a speed of 25 mph or less, and vehicles designed and
used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage and a marina,
or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or highway for a
distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 mph or less, shall have
a drawbar or other connection, including the hitch mounted on the towing
vehicle, which shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight towed
thereby. Only one such vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or
agricultural production materials as provided in this section may be towed or
drawn at one time except as follows:
         (a)   An agricultural tractor may tow or draw more than one such
vehicle;
         (b)   A pickup truck or straight truck designed by the manufacturer to
carry a load of not less than one-half ton and not more than two tons may tow
or draw not more than two such vehicles that are being used to transport
agricultural produce from the farm to a local place of storage. No vehicle
being so towed by such a pickup truck or straight truck shall be considered to
be a motor vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.32)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
   (C)   Exception to size and weight restrictions.
      (1)   The size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter
5577 do not apply to a any of the following:
         (a)   A person who is engaged in the initial towing or removal of a
wrecked or disabled motor vehicle from the site of an emergency on a public
highway where the vehicle became wrecked or disabled to the nearest site where
the vehicle can be brought into conformance with the requirements of this
chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577, to the nearest storage facility, or to the
nearest qualified repair facility;
         (b)   A person who is en route to the site of an emergency on a public
highway to remove a wrecked or disabled motor vehicle;
         (c)   A person who is returning from delivering a wrecked or disabled
motor vehicle to a site, storage facility, or repair facility as specified in
division (C)(1)(a) of this section.
      (2)   Any subsequent towing of a wrecked or disabled vehicle shall comply
with the size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577.
      (3)   No court shall impose any penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99 or
the civil liability established in R.C. § 5577.12 upon a person who is
operating a vehicle in the manner described in division (C)(1) of this section.
(R.C. § 5577.15)
§ 74.54 WEIGHING OF VEHICLE; REMOVAL OF EXCESS LOAD.
   (A)   Any police officer having reason to believe that the weight of a
vehicle and its load is unlawful may require the driver of the vehicle to stop
and submit to a weighing of it by means of a compact, self- contained,
portable, sealed scale specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of
vehicles on highways; a sealed scale permanently installed in a fixed location,
having a load-receiving element specially adapted to determining the wheel
loads of highway vehicles; a sealed scale, permanently installed in a fixed
location, having a load-receiving element specially adapted to determining the
combined load of all wheels on a single axle or on successive axles of a
highway vehicle; or a sealed scale adapted to weighing highway vehicles, loaded
or unloaded.
   (B)   The driver of the vehicle shall, if necessary, be directed to proceed
to the nearest available sealed scales to accomplish the weighing, provided the
scales are within three miles of the point where the vehicle is stopped.
   (C)   Any vehicle stopped in accordance with this section may be held by the
police officer for a reasonable time only to accomplish the weighing as
prescribed by this section.
   (D)   All scales used in determining the lawful weight of a vehicle and its
load shall be annually compared by a municipal, county or state sealer with the
state standards or standards approved by the state, and the scales shall not be
sealed if they do not conform to the state standards or standards approved by
the state.
   (E)   At each end of a permanently installed scale, there shall be a
straight approach in the same plane as the platform, of sufficient length and
width to insure the level positioning of vehicles during weight determinations.
During determination of weight by compact, self-contained, portable, sealed
scales, specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of vehicles on
highways, they shall always be used on a level terrain of sufficient length and
width to accommodate the entire vehicle being weighed. Such terrain shall be
level, or if not level, it shall be of such elevation that the difference in
elevation between the wheels on any one axle does not exceed two inches and the
difference in elevation between axles being weighed does not exceed one-quarter
inch per foot of the distance between such axles.
   (F)   In all determinations of all weights, except gross weight, by compact,
self-contained, portable, sealed scales, specially adapted to determining the
wheel loads of vehicles on highways, all successive axles, 12 feet or less
apart, shall be weighed simultaneously by placing one such scale under the
outside wheel of each such axle. In determinations of gross weight by the use
of compact, self-contained, portable, sealed scales, specially adapted to
determining the wheel loads of vehicles on highways, all axles shall be weighed
simultaneously by placing one such scale under the outside wheel of each axle.
   (G)   Whenever an officer, upon weighing a vehicle and load, determines that
the weight is unlawful, he or she may require the driver to stop the vehicle in
a suitable place and remain standing until such portion of the load is removed
as is necessary to reduce the weight of the vehicle to the limit permitted
under R.C. §§ 5577.01 through 5577.14 and this chapter.
(R.C. § 4513.33)
Statutory reference:
   Alteration of weight limits, approval of Director required, see R.C. §
4513.33
§ 74.55 OPERATION OF VEHICLE EXCEEDING WEIGHT LIMITS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall operate or move a traction engine, steam roller, or
other vehicle, load, object or structure, whether propelled by muscular or
motor power, over or upon the improved public streets, highways, bridges, or
culverts in this municipality, that weighs in excess of the weights prescribed
in this subchapter or R.C. §§ 5577.01 et seq., unless the person has been
issued a permit under R.C. § 4513.34, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. The prohibition in this section applies regardless of whether the
weight is moved upon wheels, rollers, or otherwise. Any weight determination
shall include the weight of the vehicle, object, structure, contrivance, and
load.
(R.C. § 5577.02)
   (B)   Whoever violates the weight provisions of this section shall be fined
$80 for the first 2,000 pounds, or fraction thereof, of overload; for overloads
in excess of 2,000 pounds, but not in excess of 5,000 pounds, such person shall
be fined $100, and in addition thereto $1 per 100 pounds of overload; for
overloads in excess of 5,000 pounds but not in excess of 10,000 pounds, such
person shall be fined $130, and in addition thereto $2 per 100 pounds of
overload, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both. For all overloads in
excess of 10,000 pounds, such person shall be fined $160, and in addition
thereto $3 per 100 pounds of overload, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or
both. Whoever violates the weight provisions of vehicle and load relating to
gross load limits shall be fined not less than $100. No penalty prescribed in
this division (B)(2) shall be imposed on any vehicle combination if the
overload on any one axle does not exceed 1,000 pounds, and if the immediately
preceding or following axle, excepting the front axle of the vehicle
combination, is underloaded by the same or greater amount. For purposes of this
division (B)(2), two axles on one vehicle less than eight feet apart shall be
considered as one axle.
(R.C. § 5577.99(A))
§ 74.56 LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   Weight of load; width of tire. No person, firm or corporation shall
transport over the improved public streets, alleys, intercounty highways, state
highways, bridges or culverts in this municipality, in any vehicle propelled by
muscular, motor or other power, any burden, including weight of vehicle and
load, greater than the following:
      (1)   (a)   In vehicles having metal tires three inches or less in width,
a load of 500 pounds for each inch of the total width of the tire on all
wheels;
         (b)   When the tires on such vehicles exceed three inches in width, an
additional load of 800 pounds shall be permitted for each inch by which the
total width of the tires on all wheels exceeds 12 inches.
      (2)   In vehicles having tires of rubber or other similar substance, for
each inch of the total width of tires on all wheels, as follows:
 
Tire Width (in inches) Load Limit (in pounds)
3.5                    450
6 and over             650
 
      (3)   The total width of tires on all wheels shall be, in the case of
solid tires of rubber or other similar substance, the actual width in inches of
all such tires between the flanges at the base of the tires, but in no event
shall that portion of tire coming in contact with the road surface be less than
two-thirds the width so measured between the flanges.
      (4)   In the case of pneumatic tires, of rubber or other similar
substance, the total width of tires on all wheels shall be the actual width of
all such tires, measured at the widest portion thereof when inflated and not
bearing a load.
      (5)   In no event shall the load, including the proportionate weight of
vehicle that can be concentrated on any wheel, exceed 650 pounds to each inch
in width of the tread as defined in this division (A) for solid tires, or each
inch in the actual diameter of pneumatic tires measured when inflated and not
bearing a load.
(R.C. § 5577.03)
   (B)   Vehicles with pneumatic tires, load limits.
      (1)   The maximum wheel load of any one wheel of any vehicle, load,
object or structure operated or moved upon improved public highways, streets,
bridges or culverts shall not exceed 650 pounds per inch width of pneumatic
tire, measured as prescribed by division (A) of this section.
      (2)   The weight of the vehicle and load imposed upon a road surface that
is part of the interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires shall not
exceed any of the following weight limitations:
         (a)   On any one axle, 20,000 pounds;
         (b)   On any tandem axle, 34,000 pounds;
         (c)   On any two or more consecutive axles, the maximum weight as
determined by application of the formula provided in division (B)(3) of this
section.
      (3)   (a)   For purposes of division (B)(2)(c) of this section, the
maximum gross weight on any two or more consecutive axles shall be determined
by application of the following formula: W = 500[(LN/–1) + 12N + 36]
         (b)   In this formula, W equals the overall gross weight on any group
of two or more consecutive axles to the nearest 500 pounds, L equals the
distance in rounded whole feet between the extreme of any group of two or more
consecutive axles, and N equals the number of axles in the group under
consideration. However, two consecutive sets of tandem axles may carry a gross
load of 34,000 pounds each, provided the overall distance between the first and
last axles of such consecutive sets of tandem axles is 36 feet or more.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (B)(9) of this section, the weight
of vehicle and load imposed upon a road surface that is not part of the
interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires shall not exceed any of the
following weight limitations:
         (a)   On any one axle, 20,000 pounds.
         (b)   On any two successive axles:
            1.   Spaced four feet or less apart, and weighed simultaneously,
24,000 pounds;
            2.   Spaced more than four feet apart, and weighed simultaneously,
34,000 pounds, plus 1,000 pounds per foot or fraction thereof, over four feet,
not to exceed 40,000 pounds.
         (c)   On any three successive load-bearing axles designed to equalize
the load between such axles and spaced so that each such axle of the three-axle
group is more than four feet from the next axle in the three-axle group and so
that the spacing between the first axle and the third axle in the three-axle
group is no more than nine feet, and with such load-bearing three-axle group
weighed simultaneously as a unit:
            1.   A weight of 48,000 pounds, with the total weight of the
vehicle and load not exceeding 38,000 pounds plus an additional 900 pounds for
each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of the
vehicle;
            2.   As an alternative to division (B)(4)(c)1. of this section,
42,500 pounds, if part of a six-axle vehicle combination with at least 20 feet
of spacing between the front axle and rearmost axle, with the total weight of
the vehicle and load not exceeding 54,000 pounds plus an additional 600 pounds
per each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of the
vehicle.
         (d)   The total weight of the vehicle and load utilizing any
combination of axles, other than as provided for three-axle groups in division
(B)(4) of this section, shall not exceed 38,000 pounds plus an additional 900
pounds for each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of
the vehicle.
      (5)   Notwithstanding divisions (B)(2) and (B)(4) of this section, the
maximum overall gross weight of a vehicle and load imposed upon the road
surface shall not exceed 80,000 pounds.
      (6)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, when a vehicle is
towing another vehicle, such drawbar or other connection shall be of a length
such as will limit the spacing between nearest axles of the respective vehicles
to a distance not in excess of 12.5 feet.
      (7)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section, TANDEM AXLE means two
or more consecutive axles whose centers may be included between parallel
transverse vertical planes spaced more than 40 inches but not more than 96
inches apart, extending across the full width of the vehicle.
      (8)   This division (B) does not apply to passenger bus type vehicles
operated by a regional transit authority pursuant to R.C. §§ 306.30 through
306.54.
      (9)   Either division (B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section applies to the
weight of a vehicle and its load imposed upon any road surface that is not a
part of the interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires. As between
divisions (B)(2) and (B)(4) of this section, only the division that yields the
highest total gross vehicle weight limit shall be applied to any such vehicle.
Once that division has been determined, only the limits contained in the
subdivisions of that division shall apply to that vehicle.
(R.C. § 5577.04)
   (C)   Axle and wheel load, gross weights and towing connection length for
solid rubber tires.
      (1)   No vehicle, load, object or structure having a maximum axle load
greater than 16,000 pounds when such vehicle is equipped with solid rubber
tires shall be operated or moved upon the improved public highways, streets,
bridges or culverts. The maximum wheel load of any one wheel of such vehicle
shall not exceed 650 pounds per inch width of tire, measured as prescribed by
division (A) of this section, nor shall any solid tire or rubber or other
resilient material, on any wheel of any such vehicle, be less than one inch
thick when measure from the top of the flanges of the tire channel.
      (2)   The weight of vehicle and load imposed upon the road surface by any
two successive axles, spaces four feet or less apart, shall not exceed 19,000
pounds for solid tires; or by any two successive axles spaced more than four
feet but less than eight feet apart, shall not exceed 24,000 pounds for solid
tires; or by any two successive axles, spaced eight feet or more apart, shall
not exceed 28,000 pounds for solid tires; nor shall the total weight of vehicle
and load exceed, for solid rubber tires, 28,000 pounds plus an additional 600
pounds for each foot or fraction thereof of spacing between the front axle and
the rear-most axle of the vehicle; nor shall the weight of the vehicle and load
imposed upon the road surface by any vehicle equipped with solid rubber tires
exceed 80% of the permissible weight of vehicle and load as provided for
pneumatic tires.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, when a vehicle is
towing another vehicle, such drawbar or other connection shall be of a length
such as will limit the spacing between the nearest axles of the respective
vehicles to a distance not in excess of 12.5 feet. If the provisions of this
division (C) are held to exceed the weight limitations or other provisions set
forth in the “Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1958”, 72 Stat. 902, 23 U.S.C. § 127,
this division (C) shall become null and void to the extent of such
inconsistency.
(R.C. § 5577.041)
   (D)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second or subsequent offense, such person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 5577.99(C))
      (2)   Whoever violates the weight provisions of this section shall be
punished as set forth in §
74.55(B).
   (E)   Modification of load limits. The load limits established in this
section may be modified or waived upon special permission granted as provided
in R.C. § 4513.34 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
§ 74.57 MAXIMUM WIDTH, HEIGHT, AND LENGTH.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be operated upon the public highways, streets,
bridges, and culverts within this municipality whose dimensions exceed those
specified in this section.
   (B)   No such vehicle shall have a width:
      (1)   In excess of 104 inches for passenger bus type vehicles operated
exclusively within the municipality.
      (2)   In excess of 102 inches, excluding such safety devices as are
required by law, for passenger bus type vehicles operated over freeways, and
such other state roads with minimum pavement widths of 22 feet, except those
roads or portions of roads over which operation of 102-inch buses is prohibited
by order of the Director of Transportation.
      (3)   In excess of 132 inches for traction engines.
      (4)   In excess of 102 inches for recreational vehicles, excluding safety
devices and retracted awnings and other appurtenances of six inches or less in
width and except that the Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch
recreational vehicles on designated state highways or portions of highways.
      (5)   In excess of 102 inches, including load, for all other vehicles,
except that the Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch vehicles on
such state highways or portions of state highways as the Director designates.
   (C)   No such vehicle shall have a length:
      (1)   In excess of 66 feet for passenger bus type vehicles and
articulated passenger bus type vehicles operated by a regional transit
authority pursuant to R.C. §§ 306.30 through 306.54.
      (2)   In excess of 45 feet for all other passenger bus type vehicles.
      (3)   In excess of 53 feet for any semitrailer when operated in a
commercial tractor-semitrailer combination, with or without load, except that
the Director may prohibit the operation of any such commercial tractor-
semitrailer combination on such state highways or portions of state highways as
the Director designates.
      (4)   In excess of 28.5 feet for any semitrailer or trailer when operated
in a commercial tractor- semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor-semitrailer-
semitrailer combination, except that the Director may prohibit the operation of
any such commercial tractor-semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor-
semitrailer-semitrailer combination on such state highways or portions of state
highways as the Director designates.
      (5)   (a)   In excess of 97 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle
transporter combinations and drive-away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle
transporter combinations when operated on any interstate, United States route,
or state route, including reasonable access travel on all other roadways for a
distance not to exceed one road mile from any interstate, United States route,
or state route, not to exceed three saddlemounted vehicles, but which may
include one fullmount;
         (b)   In excess of 75 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle
transporter combinations and drive-away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle
transporter combinations when operated on any roadway not designated as an
interstate, United States route, or state route, not to exceed three
saddlemounted vehicles, but which may include one fullmount.
      (6)   In excess of 65 feet for any other combination of vehicles coupled
together, with or without load, except as provided in division (C)(3) and (C)
(4), and in division (E) below.
      (7)   In excess of 45 feet for recreational vehicles.
      (8)   In excess of 50 feet for all other vehicles, except trailers and
semitrailers, with or without load.
   (D)   No such vehicle shall have a height in excess of 13.5 feet, with or
without load.
   (E)   An automobile transporter or boat transporter shall be allowed a
length of 65 feet, and a stinger- steered automobile transporter or stinger-
steered boat transporter shall be allowed a length of 75 feet, except that the
load thereon may extend no more than four feet beyond the rear of such vehicles
and may extend no more than three feet beyond the front of such vehicles, and
except further that the Director may prohibit the operation of a stinger-
steered automobile transporter, stinger-steered boat transporter, or a B-train
assembly on any state highway or portion of any state highway that the Director
designates.
   (F)   (1)   The widths prescribed in division (B) of this section shall not
include side mirrors, turn signal lamps, marker lamps, handholds for cab entry
and egress, flexible fender extensions, mud flaps, splash and spray suppressant
devices, and load-induced tire bulge.
      (2)   The widths prescribed in division (B)(5) of this section shall not
include automatic covering devices, tarp and tarp hardware, and tiedown
assemblies, provided these safety devices do not extend more than three inches
from either side of the vehicle.
      (3)   The lengths prescribed in divisions (C)(2) through (C)(7) shall not
include safety devices, bumpers attached to the front or rear of such bus or
combination, non-property carrying devices or components that do not extend
more than 24 inches beyond the rear of the vehicle and are needed for loading
or unloading, B-train assembly used between the first and second semitrailer of
a commercial tractor-semitrailer-semitrailer combination, energy conservation
devices as provided in any regulations adopted by the Secretary of the United
States Department of Transportation, or any noncargo-carrying refrigerator
equipment attached to the front of trailers and semitrailers. In special cases,
vehicles that dimensions exceed those prescribed by this section may operate in
accordance with rules adopted by the Director.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to fire engines, fire trucks, or
other vehicles or apparatus belonging to the municipality or to the volunteer
fire department thereof or used by such department in the discharge of its
functions. This section does not apply to vehicles and pole trailers used in
the transportation of wooden and metal poles, nor to the transportation of
pipes or well-drilling equipment, nor to farm machinery and equipment.
      (2)   The owner or operator of any vehicle, machinery, or equipment not
specifically enumerated in this section but the dimensions of which exceed the
dimensions provided by this section, when operating the same on the highways
and streets of the municipality, shall comply with the rules of the Director
governing such movement. Any person adversely affected shall have the same
right of appeal as provided in R.C. Chapter 119.
      (3)   This section does not require the municipality or any railroad or
other private corporation to provide sufficient vertical clearance to permit
the operation of such vehicle, or to make any changes in or about existing
structures now crossing streets, roads, and other public thoroughfares.
   (H)   As used in this section, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 4501.01.
(R.C. § 5577.05)
   (I)   No person shall violate any rule or regulation promulgated by the
Director of Transportation in accordance with R.C. § 5577.05.
(R.C. § 5577.06)
   (J)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second or subsequent offense, such person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 5577.99(C))
§ 74.58 STATEMENT OF GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT.
   (A)   No person shall issue or aid in issuing any bill of lading or other
document of like nature in lieu thereof, which bill or document is to accompany
a shipment of goods or property by truck, trailer, semitrailer, commercial
tractor, or any other commercial vehicle used for the transportation of
property, the gross weight of which, with load, exceeds three tons, with intent
to defraud by misrepresentation thereon the weight of such goods of property to
be so transported.
   (B)   Any driver or operator of a commercial car, trailer or semitrailer may
obtain from any person, firm, partnership, corporation or association,
including the owner, lessee, or operator of such commercial car, trailer or
semitrailer, owning and operating sealed scales in this state, a written
“statement of gross vehicle weight” showing the gross weight of the vehicle
including the cargo on the vehicle, the name and address of the person issuing
the statement, and the date and place where the vehicle and its cargo were
weighed. The driver or operator of the commercial car, trailer or semitrailer
shall retain such statement of gross vehicle weight on his or her person, and
any law enforcement officer may request that such driver or operator exhibit it
to him or her. If, upon examining the statement of gross vehicle weight, the
law enforcement officer has reason to believe that the information contained
therein is correct in every respect, he or she shall indorse it with his or her
name and the date and place where it was exhibited to him or her. The law
enforcement officer may then permit such driver or operator to proceed without
weighing by a law enforcement officer. No person shall willfully issue a
written statement of gross vehicle weight and knowingly give any false
information in such statement.
(R.C. § 5577.10)
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be fined not more
than $5,000 or imprisoned for not less than 30 days nor more than six months,
or both.
(R.C. § 5577.99(D))
§ 74.59 WHEEL PROTECTORS REQUIRED ON HEAVY COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall drive or operate, or cause to be driven or operated,
any commercial car, trailer, or semitrailer, used for the transportation of
goods or property, the gross weight of which, with load, exceeds three tons,
upon the public highways, streets, bridges, and culverts within the
municipality, unless such vehicle is equipped with suitable metal protectors or
substantial flexible flaps on the rearmost wheels of such vehicle or
combination of vehicles to prevent, as far as practicable, the wheels from
throwing dirt, water, or other materials on the windshields of following
vehicles. Such protectors or flaps shall have a ground clearance of not more
than one-third of the distance from the center of the rearmost axle to the
center of the flaps under any conditions of loading of the vehicle, and they
shall be at least as wide as the tires they are protecting. If the vehicle is
so designed and constructed that such requirements are accomplished by means of
fenders, body construction, or other means of enclosure, then no such
protectors or flaps are required. Rear wheels not covered at the top by
fenders, bodies, or other parts of the vehicle shall be covered at the top by
protective means extending at least to the center line of the rearmost axle.
(R.C. § 5577.11)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $25.
(R.C. § 5577.99(E))
§ 74.60 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES; PROSECUTION; APPLICATION OF MONIES.
   Any person violating any law relating to or regulating the use of the
improved public roads shall be liable for all damage resulting to any such
street, highway, bridge or culvert by reason of such violation. In case of any
injury to such street, highway, bridge or culvert, such damages shall be
collected by civil action for recovery of such damages brought by the proper
authorities of the municipality. All damages collected under this section shall
be paid into the treasury of the municipality and credited to any fund for the
repairs of streets, highways, roads, bridges or culverts.
(R.C. § 5577.12)
§ 74.61 WEIGHT EXCEPTIONS FOR CERTAIN VEHICLES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      COAL TRUCK. Means a truck transporting coal from the site where it is
mined when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      FARM COMMODITIES. Includes livestock, bulk milk, corn, soybeans, tobacco
and wheat.
      FARM MACHINERY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      FARM TRUCK. Means a truck used in the transportation from a farm of farm
commodities when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      LOG TRUCK. Means a truck used in the transportation of timber from the
site of its cutting when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      SOLID WASTE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3743.01.
      SOLID WASTE HAUL VEHICLE. Means a vehicle hauling solid waste for which a
bill of lading has not been issued.
   (B)   (1)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the following vehicles under the
described conditions may exceed by no more than 7.5% the weight provisions of
R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, and no penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be imposed:
         (a)   A coal truck transporting coal, from the place of production to
the first point of delivery where title to the coal is transferred;
         (b)   A farm truck or farm machinery transporting farm commodities,
from the place of production to the first point of delivery where the
commodities are weighed and title to the commodities is transferred;
         (c)   A log truck transporting timber, from the site of its cutting to
the first point of delivery where the timber is transferred;
         (d)   A solid waste haul vehicle hauling solid waste, from the place
of production to the first point of delivery where the solid waste is disposed
of or title to the solid waste is transferred.
      (2)   In addition, if any of the vehicles listed in division (B)(1) of
this section and operated under the conditions described in that division does
not exceed by more than 7.5% the gross vehicle weight provisions of R.C. §§
5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
does not exceed the wheel or axle-load limits of those sections by more than
7.5%, no penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, for a wheel or axle overload shall be imposed.
   (C)   If any of the vehicles listed in division (B)(1) of this section and
operated under the conditions described in that division exceeds the weight
provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, by more than the percentage allowance of either divisions
(B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section, both of the following apply without regard to
the allowance provided by this division (B) of this section:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by R.C. § 5577.12, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   (1)   Division (B) of this section does not apply to the operation of
a farm truck, log truck, or farm machinery transporting farm commodities during
the months of February and March.
      (2)   Regardless of when the operation occurs, division (B) of this
section does not apply to the operation of a vehicle on either of the
following:
         (a)   A highway that is part of the interstate system;
         (b)   A highway, road, or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under R.C. § 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09, or 5591.42,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.042)
   (E)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the following vehicles under the described
conditions may exceed by no more than 7.5% the weight provisions of R.C. §§
5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and no
penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, shall be imposed:
      (1)   A surface mining truck transporting minerals from the place where
the minerals are loaded to any of the following:
         (a)   The construction site where the minerals are discharged;
         (b)   The place where title to the minerals is transferred;
         (c)   The place of processing.
      (2)   A vehicle transporting hot mix asphalt material from the place
where the material is first mixed to the paving site where the material is
discharged;
      (3)   A vehicle transporting concrete from the place where the material
is first mixed to the site where the material is discharged;
      (4)   A vehicle transporting manure, turf, sod, or silage from the site
where the material is first produced to the first place of delivery;
      (5)   A vehicle transporting chips, sawdust, mulch, bark, pulpwood,
biomass, or firewood from the site where the product is first produced or
harvested to first point where the product is transferred.
   (F)   In addition, if any of the vehicles listed in division (E) of this
section and operated under the conditions described in that division do not
exceed by more than 7.5% the gross vehicle weight provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01
to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and do not
exceed the wheel or axle-load limits of those sections by more than 7.5%, no
penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, for a wheel or axle overload shall be imposed.
   (G)   If any of the vehicles listed in division (E) of this section and
operated under the conditions described in that division exceed the weight
provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, by more than the percentage allowance of either divisions
(E) or (F) of this section, both of the following apply without regard to the
allowance provided by division (E) or (F) of this section:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by R.C. § 5577.12, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (H)   Divisions (E) and (F) of this section do not apply to the operation of
a vehicle listed in division (E) of this section on either of the following:
      (1)   A highway that is part of the interstate system;
      (2)   A highway, road, or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under R.C. § 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09, or 5591.42,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.043)
   (I)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, a vehicle fueled solely by compressed natural
gas or liquid natural gas may exceed by not more than 2,000 pounds the gross
vehicle weight provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, or the axle load limits of those sections.
   (J)   If a vehicle described in division (I) of this section exceeds the
weight provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, by more than the allowance provided for in
division (I) of this section, both of the following apply:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by R.C. § 5577.12, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (K)   Division (I) of this section does not apply to the operation of a
vehicle on a highway, road, or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under R.C. § 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09, or 5591.42,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.044)
   (L)   Fire engine weight exemptions.
      (1)   As used in this division (L), FIRE ENGINE means a fire engine, fire
truck, or other vehicle or apparatus belonging to or used by any municipal,
township, or volunteer fire department, while in the discharge of its
functions.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, a person may do both of the following without a
written permit issued under R.C. § 4513.34, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance:
         (a)   Operate a two-axle fire engine, with a front axle maximum weight
of 24,000 pounds and a rear axle maximum weight of 33,500 pounds and a minimum
wheelbase of 15 feet, on all roadways in the state;
         (b)   Operate a fire engine with a maximum gross vehicle weight of
86,000 pounds on the interstate highway system and within one road mile of an
interstate highway system entrance or exit ramp.
      (3)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 4513.34, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, for any fire engine that requires a permit, the Ohio
Director of Transportation or local authority shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Issue the permit at no cost to the municipal, township, or
volunteer fire department;
         (b)   Issue a permit that expires five years after the date of
issuance.
(R.C. § 5577.045)
CHAPTER 75: BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
75.01   Bicycles; application of Title VII
   
75.02   Operation of motorized bicycle
   
75.03   Electric bicycles
   
75.04   Rules for bicycles, motorcycles, and snowmobiles
   
75.05   Prohibition against attaching bicycles and sleds to vehicles
   
75.06   Riding bicycles; motorcycles abreast
   
75.07   Equipment of bicycles
   
75.08   Driving of motor vehicle on bikeway
Snowmobiles, Off-Highway Motorcycles, and All-Purpose Vehicles
   
75.25   Definitions
   
75.26   Equipment
   
75.27   Code application; prohibited operation
   
75.28   Permitted operation
   
75.29   Licensing requirements of operator
   
75.30   Maintenance of vehicles for hire
   
75.31   Accident reports
   
75.32   Impounding of vehicle
   
75.33   Local control within police power
   
75.34   Registration of vehicles
   
75.35   Certificate of title; prohibitions
Cross-reference:
   Operation restricted for mini-trucks and low-speed, under-speed, or utility
vehicles, see §
73.16
Statutory reference:
   Bicycle regulations to be consistent with state law, see R.C. § 4511.07(A)
(8)
   Protective eye devices required for motorcycle operators and passengers;
helmets required for persons under 18 years of age, see O.A.C. § 4501-17-01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 75.01 BICYCLES; APPLICATION OF TITLE VII.
   (A)   The provisions of this title that are applicable to bicycles and
electric bicycles apply whenever a bicycle or electric bicycle is operated upon
any highway or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, a bicycle operator
or electric bicycle operator who violates any provisions of this title
described in division (A) of this section that is applicable to bicycles or
electric bicycles may be issued a ticket, citation, or summons by a law
enforcement officer for the violation in the same manner as the operator of a
motor vehicle would be cited for the same violation. A person who commits any
such violation while operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not have any
points assessed against the person’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or probationary license under R.C. §
4510.036.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, in the case of a
violation of any provision of this title described in division (A) of this
section by a bicycle operator, electric bicycle operator, or motor vehicle
operator when the trier of fact finds that the violation by the motor vehicle
operator endangered the lives of bicycle riders or electric bicycle riders at
the time of the violation, the court, notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio
Revised Code to the contrary, may require the bicycle operator, electric
bicycle operator, or motor vehicle operator to take and successfully complete a
bicycling skills course approved by the court in addition to or in lieu of any
penalty otherwise prescribed by this Traffic Code or the Ohio Revised Code for
that violation.
   (D)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to violations of
R.C. § 4511.19, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 4511.52)
§ 75.02 OPERATION OF MOTORIZED BICYCLE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motorized bicycle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking, unless all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The person is 14 or 15 years of age and holds a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license issued after the person has passed the test provided
for in this section, or the person is 16 years of age or older and holds either
a valid commercial driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506 or a
driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid motorized bicycle
license issued after the person has passed the test provided for in this
section, except that if a person is 16 years of age, has a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license and desires a motorized bicycle license, the person
is not required to comply with the testing requirements provided for in this
section.
      (2)   The motorized bicycle is equipped in accordance with the rules
adopted under division (B) of this section and is in proper working order.
      (3)   The person, if under 18 years of age, is wearing a protective
helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened and the
motorized bicycle is equipped with a rearview mirror.
      (4)   The person operates the motorized bicycle when practicable within
three feet of the right edge of the roadway obeying all traffic rules
applicable to vehicles.
   (B)   The Director of Public Safety, subject to R.C. Chapter 119, shall
adopt and promulgate rules concerning protective helmets, the equipment of
motorized bicycles, and the testing and qualifications of persons who do not
hold a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license. The test shall be as near
as practicable to the examination required for a motorcycle operator’s
endorsement under R.C. § 4507.11. The test shall also require the operator to
give an actual demonstration of the operator’s ability to operate and control a
motorized bicycle by driving one under the supervision of an examining officer.
   (C)   Every motorized bicycle license expires on the birthday of the
applicant in the fourth or eighth year after the date it is issued, based on
the period of renewal requested by the applicant. No motorized bicycle license
shall be issued for a period longer than eight years. A person who is 65 years
of age or older may only apply for a motorized bicycle license that expires on
the birthday of the applicant in the fourth year after the date it is issued.
   (D)   No person operating a motorized bicycle shall carry another person
upon the motorized bicycle.
   (E)   The protective helmet and rearview mirror required by division (A)(3)
of this section shall, on and after January 1, 1985, conform with rules adopted
by the Director under division (B) of this section.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A), (D), or (E) of this section is guilty
of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.521)
Statutory reference:
   Suspension of probationary motorized bicycle license by the state, see R.C.
§ 4510.34
§ 75.03 ELECTRIC BICYCLES.
   (A)   (1)   On and after January 1, 2020, manufacturers and distributors of
electric bicycles shall permanently affix a label, in a prominent location, to
each electric bicycle. The label shall specify whether the electric bicycle is
a class 1, class 2, or class 3 electric bicycle, the top assisted speed that
the electric bicycle is capable of reaching, and the motor wattage of the
electric bicycle.
      (2)   No person shall modify an electric bicycle in a manner that changes
the top assisted speed that the electric bicycle is capable of reaching unless
the person also modifies the label required under division (A)(1) of this
section to reflect the modification.
   (B)   (1)   The manufacturer of an electric bicycle shall ensure that the
electric bicycle complies with the equipment and manufacturing requirements for
bicycles established by the consumer product safety commission under 16 C.F.R.
§§ 1512 et seq.
      (2)   The manufacturer shall manufacture all class 1 electric bicycles
and class 3 electric bicycles so that when the rider ceases pedaling the
electric motor ceases to provide assistance. The manufacturer shall manufacture
all class 2 electric bicycles so that when the rider applies the brakes or
releases or activates a switch or similar mechanism the electric motor ceases
to provide assistance.
      (3)   All class 3 electric bicycles shall be equipped with a speedometer
that displays the speed of the electric bicycle in miles per hour.
   (C)   (1)   The operation of a class 1 electric bicycle and a class 2
electric bicycle is permitted on a path set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles or on a shared-use path, unless the county, township, municipal
corporation, other local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60
with control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule prohibits the use
of a class 1 electric bicycle or class 2 electric bicycle on such a path.
      (2)   No person shall operate a class 3 electric bicycle on a path set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles or a shared-use path unless that path
is within or adjacent to a highway or the county, township, municipal
corporation, or local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60 with
control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule authorizes the use of a
class 3 electric bicycle on such a path.
      (3)   No person shall operate a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2
electric bicycle, or a class 3 electric bicycle on a path that is intended to
be used primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or other similar
uses, or any other single track or natural surface trail that has historically
been reserved for non-motorized use, unless the county, township, municipal
corporation, other local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60
with control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule authorizes the use
of a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2 electric bicycle, or a class 3
electric bicycle on such a path.
      (4)   Divisions (C)(2) and (C)(3) of this section do not apply to a law
enforcement officer, or other person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic
laws of the state, using an electric bicycle while in the performance of the
officer's duties.
   (D)   (1)   No person under 16 years of age shall operate a class 3 electric
bicycle; however, a person under 16 years of age may ride as a passenger on a
class 3 electric bicycle that is designed to accommodate passengers.
      (2)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on a class 3 electric
bicycle unless the person is wearing a protective helmet that meets the
standards established by the Consumer Product Safety Commission or the American
Society for Testing and Materials.
   (E)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever operates
an electric bicycle in a manner that is prohibited under division (C) of this
section and whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   The offenses established under division (E)(1) of this section are
strict liability offenses and strict liability is a culpable mental state for
purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of these offenses as strict
liability offenses shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
(R.C. § 4511.522)
§ 75.04 RULES FOR BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND SNOWMOBILES.
   (A)   As used in this section, SNOWMOBILE has the same meaning as given that
term in R.C. § 4519.01.
   (B)   (1)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall ride
other than upon or astride the permanent and regular seat attached thereto or
carry any other person upon such bicycle or electric bicycle other than upon a
firmly attached and regular seat thereon, and no person shall ride upon a
bicycle or electric bicycle other than upon such a firmly attached and regular
seat.
      (2)   No person operating a motorcycle shall ride other than upon or
astride the permanent and regular seat or saddle attached thereto, or carry any
other person upon such motorcycle other than upon a firmly attached and regular
seat or saddle thereon, and no person shall ride upon a motorcycle other than
upon such a firmly attached and regular seat or saddle.
      (3)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a
saddle other than while sitting astride the saddle, facing forward, with one
leg on each side of the motorcycle.
      (4)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a seat
other than while sitting upon the seat.
      (5)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall carry any
package, bundle, or article that prevents the driver from keeping at least one
hand upon the handlebars.
      (6)   No bicycle, electric bicycle, or motorcycle shall be used to carry
more persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
No motorcycle shall be operated on a highway when the handlebars rise higher
than the shoulders of the operator when the operator is seated in the
operator’s seat or saddle.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, no person
shall operate or be a passenger on a snowmobile or motorcycle without using
safety glasses or other protective eye device. Except as provided in division
(C)(3) of this section, no person who is under the age of 18 years, or who
holds a motorcycle operator’s endorsement or license bearing a “novice”
designation that is currently in effect as provided in R.C. § 4507.13, shall
operate a motorcycle on a highway, or be a passenger on a motorcycle, unless
wearing a protective helmet on the person’s head, and no other person shall be
a passenger on a motorcycle operated by such a person unless similarly wearing
a protective helmet. The helmet, safety glasses, or other protective eye device
shall conform with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety. The
provisions of this paragraph or a violation thereof shall not be used in the
trial of any civil action.
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, no
person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary instruction permit and
temporary instruction permit identification card issued by the Registrar of
Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 unless the person, at the time of
such operation, is wearing on the person’s head a protective helmet that
conforms with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety.
         (b)   No person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary
instruction permit and temporary instruction permit identification card issued
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 in any of the
following circumstances:
            1.   At any time when lighted lights are required by R.C. § 4513.03
(A)(1);
            2.   While carrying a passenger;
            3.   On any limited access highway or heavily congested roadway.
      (3)   Divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2)(a) of this section do not apply to a
person who operates or is a passenger in an autocycle or cab-enclosed
motorcycle when the occupant compartment top is in place enclosing the
occupants.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the carrying
of a child in a seat or trailer that is designed for carrying children and is
firmly attached to the bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B) or (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates division (B) or (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates division (B) or (C)(1) or
(C)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.53)
§ 75.05 PROHIBITION AGAINST ATTACHING BICYCLES AND SLEDS TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person riding upon any bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster,
roller skates, sled, skateboard, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or self
to any vehicle upon a roadway.
      (2)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person riding upon any
bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skateboard, or toy
vehicle to attach the same or self to any vehicle while it is moving upon a
roadway.
      (3)   This section does not apply to towing a disabled vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.54)
§ 75.06 RIDING BICYCLES; MOTORCYCLES ABREAST.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle upon a roadway
shall ride as near to the right side of the roadway as practicable obeying all
traffic rules applicable to vehicles and exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles, electric bicycles, or motorcycles upon a
roadway shall ride not more than two abreast in a single lane, except on paths
or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, electric
bicycles, or motorcycles.
   (C)   This section does not require a person operating a bicycle or electric
bicycle to ride at the edge of the roadway when it is unreasonable or unsafe to
do so. Conditions that may require riding away from the edge of the roadway
include when necessary to avoid fixed or moving objects, parked or moving
vehicles, surface hazards, or if it otherwise is unsafe or impracticable to do
so, including if the lane is too narrow for the bicycle or electric bicycle and
an overtaking vehicle to travel safely side by side within the lane.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.55)
§ 75.07 EQUIPMENT OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   Every bicycle or electric bicycle when in use at the times specified
in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall be
equipped with the following:
      (1)   A lamp mounted on the front of either the bicycle or electric
bicycle or the operator that shall emit a white light visible from a distance
of at least 500 feet to the front and 300 feet to the sides. A generator-
powered lamp that emits light only when the bicycle or electric bicycle is
moving may be used to meet this requirement.
      (2)   A red reflector on the rear that shall be visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when directly in front of
lawful lower beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle;
      (3)   A lamp emitting either flashing or steady red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear shall be used in addition to the red
reflector. If the red lamp performs as a reflector in that it is visible as
specified in division (A)(2) of this section, the red lamp may serve as the
reflector and a separate reflector is not required.
   (B)   Additional lamps and reflectors may be used in addition to those
required under division (A) of this section, except that red lamps and red
reflectors shall not be used on the front of the bicycle or electric bicycle
and white lamps and white reflectors shall not be used on the rear of the
bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (C)   A bicycle or electric bicycle may be equipped with a device capable of
giving an audible signal, except that a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not
be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a bicycle or electric bicycle
any siren or whistle.
   (D)   Every bicycle and electric bicycle shall be equipped with an adequate
brake when used on a street or highway.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.56)
§ 75.08 DRIVING OF MOTOR VEHICLE ON BIKEWAY.
   (A)   All motorized vehicles are hereby banned from driving or parking on
all portions of any bikeway within the village except that portion of the
bikeway which occupies village streets.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to any motor vehicle owned by the village
and operated by employees of the village while doing any work on any portion of
the bikeway.
   (C)   Any vehicle found violating this section may be impounded and towed at
the expense of the owner or operator of said vehicle.
   (D)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor on a first offense; on each subsequent offense such person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(Ord. 10-90, passed 7-17-1990)
SNOWMOBILES, OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLES, AND ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLES
§ 75.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed primarily for
cross-country travel on land and water, or on more than one type of terrain,
and steered by wheels or caterpillar treads, or any combination thereof,
including vehicles that operate on a cushion of air, vehicles commonly known as
all-terrain vehicles, all season vehicles, mini-bikes and trail bikes. The term
does not include a utility vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4501.01 or any vehicle
principally used in playing golf, any motor vehicle or aircraft required to be
registered under R.C. Chapter 4503 or R.C. Chapter 4561, and any vehicle
excepted from definition as a motor vehicle by R.C. § 4501.01(B).
   DEALER. Any person or firm engaged in the business of manufacturing or
selling snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, or all-purpose vehicles at
wholesale or retail, or who rents, leases or otherwise furnishes snowmobiles,
off-highway motorcycles, or all-purpose vehicles for hire.
   ELECTRONIC. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   ELECTRONIC DEALER. A dealer whom the Registrar of Motor Vehicles designates
under R.C. § 4519.511.
   ELECTRONIC RECORD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   HIGHWAY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   INTERSTATE HIGHWAY. Any part of the interstate system of highways as defined
in subsection (e), 90 Stat. 431 (1976), 23 U.S.C. § 103, as amended.
   LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAY OR FREEWAY. Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
5511.02.
   MINI-TRUCK. A vehicle that has four wheels, is propelled by an electric
motor with a rated power of 7,500 watts or less or an internal combustion
engine with a piston displacement capacity of 660 cubic centimeters or less,
has a total dry weight of 900 to 2,200 pounds, contains an enclosed cabin and a
seat for the vehicle operator, resembles a pickup truck or van with a cargo
area or bed located at the rear of the vehicle, and was not originally
manufactured to meet federal motor vehicle safety standards.
   OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE. Every motorcycle, as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that
is designed to be operated primarily on lands other than a street or highway.
   OPERATOR. Any person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile, off- highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle.
   OWNER. Any person or firm, other than a lienholder or dealer, having title
to a snowmobile, off- highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle, or other
right to the possession thereof.
   PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4509.01.
   SNOWMOBILE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed primarily for use on snow or
ice, and steered by skis, runners or caterpillar treads.
   STATE HIGHWAY and STATE ROUTE. Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   STREET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 4519.01)
§ 75.26 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   In addition to any rules or regulations promulgated by the Ohio
Director of Public Safety pursuant to R.C. § 4519.20 and R.C. Chapter 119,
equipment of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, and all-purpose vehicles
shall include but not necessarily be limited to requirements for the following
items of equipment:
      (1)   At least one headlight having a minimum candlepower of sufficient
intensity to reveal persons and objects at a distance of at least 100 feet
ahead under normal atmospheric conditions during hours of darkness;
      (2)   At least one red tail light having a minimum candlepower of
sufficient intensity to be plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to the
rear under normal atmospheric conditions during hours of darkness;
      (3)   Every snowmobile, while traveling on packed snow, shall be capable
of carrying a driver who weighs 175 pounds or more, and, while carrying such
driver, be capable of stopping in no more than 40 feet from an initial steady
speed of 20 mph, or locking its traction belt; and
      (4)   A muffler system capable of precluding the emission of excessive
smoke or exhaust fumes, and of limiting the engine noise of vehicles. On
snowmobiles manufactured after January 1, 1973, such requirement shall include
sound dampening equipment such that noise does not exceed 82 decibels on the
“A” scale at 50 feet as measured according to SAE J192 (September 1970).
   (B)   No person shall operate any snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or
all-purpose vehicle in violation of this section, except that equipment
specified in division (A)(1) and (A)(2) of this section shall not be required
on snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, or all-purpose vehicles operated
during the daylight hours.
(R.C. § 4519.20(A), (B))
   (C)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, lease, rent or otherwise furnish
for hire in this municipality any new snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or
all-purpose vehicle that fails to comply with any rule adopted by the Ohio
Director of Public Safety under R.C. § 4519.20 after the effective date of the
rule.
(R.C. § 4519.22(A))
   (D)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B) of this section shall be fined not more than $50. If the offender
within the preceding year previously has committed a violation of division (B)
of this section or of R.C. § 4519.20(B), whoever violates division (B) of this
section shall be fined not less than $15 nor more than $100, imprisoned not
more than three days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.20(C))
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (C) of this section shall be fined not more than $50. If the offender
within the preceding year previously has committed a violation of division (C)
of this section or of R.C. § 4519.22(A), whoever violates this section shall be
fined not less than $15 nor more than $100, imprisoned not more than three
days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.22(B))
§ 75.27 CODE APPLICATION; PROHIBITED OPERATION.
   (A)   The applicable provisions of this traffic code apply to the operation
of snowmobiles, off- highway motorcycles, and all-purpose vehicles, except that
no person shall operate a snowmobile, off- highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle as follows:
      (1)   On any state highway, including a limited access highway or freeway
or the right-of-way thereof, except for emergency travel during such time and
in such manner as the Ohio Director of Public Safety designates or except as
authorized by R.C. § 4519.41(F);
      (2)   On any private property, or in any nursery or planting area,
without the permission of the owner or other person having the right to
possession of the property;
      (3)   On any land or waters controlled by the state, except at those
locations where a sign has been posted permitting such operation;
      (4)   On the tracks or right-of-way of any operating railroad;
      (5)   While transporting any firearm, bow or other implement for hunting
that is not unloaded and securely encased;
      (6)   For the purpose of chasing, pursuing, capturing or killing any
animal or wild fowl; or
      (7)   During the time from sunset to sunrise, unless displaying lighted
lights as required by R.C. § 4519.20 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $500, imprisoned not less than 3 nor more than 30 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.40)
Cross-reference:
   Operation restricted for mini-trucks and low-speed, under-speed, or utility
vehicles, see §
73.16
§ 75.28 PERMITTED OPERATION.
   Snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, and all-purpose vehicles may be
operated as follows:
   (A)   To make a crossing of a highway, other than a highway as designated in
R.C. § 4519.40(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
whenever the crossing can be made in safety and will not interfere with the
movement of vehicular traffic approaching from any direction on the highway,
and provided that the operator yields the right-of-way to any approaching
traffic that presents an immediate hazard;
   (B)   On highways in the county or township road systems whenever the local
authority having jurisdiction over such highways so permits;
   (C)   Off and alongside street or highway for limited distances from the
point of unloading from a conveyance to the point at which the snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle is intended and authorized to be
operated;
   (D)   On the berm or shoulder of a highway, other than a highway as
designated in R.C. § 4519.40(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, when the terrain permits such operation to be undertaken safely and
without the necessity of entering any traffic lane;
   (E)   On the berm or shoulder or a county or township road, while traveling
from one area of operation of the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-
purpose vehicle to another such area.
   (F)   For snowmobiles without metal studded tracks and all-purpose vehicles,
on state highways located on an island in Lake Erie, including limited access
highways and freeways, between the first day of November and the thirtieth day
of April, provided that all of the following conditions apply:
      (1)   The operator has a valid driver’s license as required under R.C. §
4519.44.
      (2)   The snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle is in compliance with rules
governing safety equipment adopted under R.C. § 4519.20.
      (3)   The owner of the snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle maintains proof
of financial responsibility for both on-road and off-road use of the snowmobile
or all-purpose vehicle.
      (4)   The operator obeys all traffic rules and regulations.
(R.C. § 4519.41)
§ 75.29 LICENSING REQUIREMENTS OF OPERATOR.
   (A)   No person who does not hold a valid, current motor vehicle driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, motorcycle operator’s endorsement or probationary
license, issued under R.C. Chapter 4506 or R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid,
current driver’s license issued by another jurisdiction, shall operate a
snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle on any street or
highway in this municipality, on any portion of the right-of-way thereof, or on
any public land or waters.
   (B)   No person who is less than 16 years of age shall operate a snowmobile,
off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle on any land or waters other than
private property or waters owned by or leased to the person’s parent or
guardian, unless accompanied by another person who is 18 years of age or older,
and who holds a license as provided in division (A) of this section, except
that the Ohio Department of Natural Resources may permit such operation on
state controlled land under its jurisdiction when such person is less than 16
years of age and is accompanied by a parent or guardian who is a licensed
driver 18 years of age or older.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $500, imprisoned not less than 3 nor more than 30 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.44)
§ 75.30 MAINTENANCE OF VEHICLES FOR HIRE.
   (A)   Any dealer who rents, leases or otherwise furnishes a snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle for hire shall maintain the vehicle
in safe operating condition. No dealer, or agent or employee of a dealer, shall
rent, lease or otherwise furnish a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-
purpose vehicle for hire to any person who does not hold a license as required
by R.C. § 4519.44(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or to
any person whom the dealer or an agent or employee of the dealer has reasonable
cause to believe is incompetent to operate the vehicle in a safe and lawful
manner.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $500.
(R.C. § 4519.45)
§ 75.31 ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   (A)   The operator of a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle involved in any accident resulting in bodily injury to or death of any
person or damage to the property of any person in excess of $100 shall report
the accident within 48 hours to the Chief of Police, and within 30 days shall
forward a written report of the accident to the Ohio Registrar of Motor
Vehicles on a form prescribed by the Registrar. If the operator is physically
incapable of making the reports and there is another participant in the
accident not so incapacitated, the participant shall make the reports. In the
event there is no other participant, and the operator is other than the owner,
the owner, within the prescribed periods of time, shall make the reports.
   (B)   Any law enforcement officer or other person authorized by R.C. §§
4519.42 and 4519.43 who investigates or receives information of an accident
involving a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle shall
forward to the Registrar a written report of the accident within 48 hours.
(R.C. § 4519.46)
§ 75.32 IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   Whenever a person is found guilty of operating a snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all- purpose vehicle in violation of any rule authorized
to be adopted under R.C. § 4519.21 or 4519.42, the trial judge of any court of
record, in addition to or independent of any other penalties provided by law,
may impound for not less than 60 days the certificate of registration and
license plate, if applicable, of that snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or
all-purpose vehicle. The court shall send the impounded certificate of
registration and license plate, if applicable, to the Registrar of Motor
Vehicles, who shall retain the certificate of registration and license plate,
if applicable, until the expiration of the period of impoundment.
   (B)   If a court impounds the certificate of registration and license plate
of an all-purpose vehicle pursuant to R.C. § 2911.21, the court shall send the
impounded certificate of registration and license plate to the Registrar, who
shall retain them until the expiration of the period of impoundment.
(R.C. § 4519.47)
§ 75.33 LOCAL CONTROL WITHIN POLICE POWER.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall prevent the municipality from
regulating the operation of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycle, and all-
purpose vehicles on streets and highways and other public property under
municipal jurisdiction, and within the reasonable exercise of the police power,
except that no registration or licensing of any snowmobile, off-highway
motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle required to be registered or titled under
R.C. Chapter 4519 shall be required.
(R.C. § 4519.48)
§ 75.34 REGISTRATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B), (C) and (D) of this section,
no person shall operate any snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle within this municipality unless the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle,
or all-purpose vehicle is registered and numbered in accordance with R.C. §§
4519.03 and 4519.04.
      (2)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4511.215 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, no registration is required for a mini-truck that is
operated within this state. A mini-truck may be operated only in accordance
with R.C. § 4511.215 and R.C. § 4519.401, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (B)   (1)   No registration is required for a snowmobile or off-highway
motorcycle that is operated exclusively upon lands owned by the owner of the
snowmobile or off-highway motorcycle, or on lands to which the owner of the
snowmobile or off-highway motorcycle has a contractual right.
      (2)   No registration is required for an all-purpose vehicle that is used
primarily for agricultural purposes when the owner qualifies for the current
agricultural use valuation tax credit, unless it is to be used on any public
land, trail, or right-of-way.
      (3)   Any all-purpose vehicle exempted from registration under division
(B)(2) of this section and operated for agricultural purposes may use public
roads and rights-of-way when traveling from one farm field to another, when
such use does not violate R.C. § 4519.41.
      (4)   No registration is required for a snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle
that is operated on a state highway as authorized by R.C. § 4519.41(F).
   (C)   No registration is required for a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle,
or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this state by a resident of another
state whenever that state has in effect a registration law similar to R.C.
Chapter 4519 and the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle
is properly registered under that state’s law. Any snowmobile, off-highway
motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this state by a resident
of a state not having a registration law similar to R.C. Chapter 4519 shall
comply with R.C. § 4519.09.
   (D)   No registration is required for a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle,
or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this municipality by the United
States, another state or a political subdivision thereof, but the snowmobile,
off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle shall display the name of the
owner thereon.
   (E)   The owner or operator of any all-purpose vehicle operated or used upon
the waters in this municipality shall comply with R.C. Chapter 1547 and R.C.
Chapter 1548 relative to the operation of watercraft.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $100.
(R.C. § 4519.02)
Statutory reference:
   Destruction or disposal of vehicle; transfer of ownership; change of
address; loss of certificate, see R.C. § 4519.05
   Registration of emergency vehicles, see R.C. § 4519.08
   Registration procedure, see R.C. § 4519.03
   Temporary license placards and fees, see R.C. § 4519.10
   Temporary operating permit for certain nonresidents, see R.C. § 4519.09
§ 75.35 CERTIFICATE OF TITLE; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate in this state an off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle without having a certificate of title for the off-highway motorcycle or
all-purpose vehicle if such a certificate is required by R.C. Chapter 4519 to
be issued for the off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle, or, if a
physical certificate of title has not been issued for it, operate an off-
highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle knowing that the ownership
information related to the motorcycle or vehicle has not been entered into the
automated title processing system by a Clerk of a Court of Common Pleas.
      (2)   Operate in this municipality an off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle is a certificate of title to the off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle has been issued and then has been canceled.
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title upon cancellation of it
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles and notice of the cancellation as prescribed
in R.C. Chapter 4519.
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a Clerk of a Court of
Common Pleas as provided in R.C. Chapter 4519, in case of the destruction or
dismantling of, or change in, the off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle
described in the certificate of title.
      (5)   Violate any provision of R.C. §§ 4519.51 through 4519.70 for which
no penalty is otherwise provided or any lawful rules adopted pursuant to those
sections.
      (6)   Operate in this state an off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle knowing that the certificate of title to or ownership of the motorcycle
or vehicle as otherwise reflected in the automated title processing system has
been canceled.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $200,
imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.66)
Statutory reference:
   Certificate of title: rules and procedures, see R.C. §§ 4519.51 et seq.
   Stolen vehicles and restrictions on sale or transfer, felony provisions, see
R.C. § 4519.67
CHAPTER 76: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
76.01   Prohibition against parking on highways
   
76.02   Condition when motor vehicle left unattended
   
76.03   Police may remove illegally parked vehicle
   
76.04   Parking prohibitions
   
76.05   Parking near curb; privileges for persons with disabilities
   
76.06   Parking on private property in violation of posted prohibition
   
76.07   Selling, washing or repairing vehicle upon roadway
   
76.08   Truck loading zones
   
76.09   Bus stops and taxicab stands
   
76.10   Parking in alleys and narrow streets; exceptions
   
76.11   Registered owner prima facie liable for unlawful parking
   
76.12   Waiver
   
76.13   Parking during snow emergency
   
76.14   Parking of certain vehicles prohibited
 
   
76.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Unlawful furnishing of prescription to enable persons to be issued
handicapped parking placards or license plates, see §
138.17
Statutory reference:
   Noncriminal parking infractions, local option to create, see R.C. Chapter
4521
§ 76.01 PROHIBITION AGAINST PARKING ON HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon any highway, no person shall stop, park, or leave standing
any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the paved or main traveled
part of the highway if it is practicable to stop, park, or so leave such
vehicle off the paved or main traveled part of the highway. In every event a
clear and unobstructed portion of the highway opposite such standing vehicle
shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles, and a clear view of such
stopped vehicle shall be available from a distance of 200 feet in each
direction upon such highway.
      (2)   This section does not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the paved or improved or main traveled portion of a highway
in such manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving the disabled vehicle in such position.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.66)
§ 76.02 CONDITION WHEN MOTOR VEHICLE LEFT UNATTENDED.
   (A)   (1)   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit
it to stand unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition,
removing the key from the ignition, effectively setting the parking brake, and,
when the motor vehicle is standing upon any grade, turning the front wheels to
the curb or side of the highway.
      (2)   The requirements of this section relating to the stopping of the
engine, locking of the ignition, and removing the key from the ignition of a
motor vehicle do not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   A motor vehicle that is parked on residential property;
         (b)   A motor vehicle that is locked, regardless of where it is
parked;
         (c)   An emergency vehicle ;
         (d)   A public safety vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.661)
§ 76.03 POLICE MAY REMOVE ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in
violation of R.C. § 4511.66 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
such officer may move such vehicle, or require the driver or other person in
charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position off the paved or improved
or main traveled part of such highway.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any
highway, bridge, or causeway, or in any tunnel, where such vehicles constitutes
an obstruction to traffic, such officer may provide for the removal of such
vehicle to the nearest garage or other place of safety.
(R.C. § 4511.67)
§ 76.04 PARKING PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or to comply with the provisions of this
title, or while obeying the directions of a police officer or a traffic-control
device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk, except as provided in division (B) of this section;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet of, and upon the approach to, any flashing beacon,
stop sign, or traffic- control device;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by a traffic-control device;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of a driveway entrance to any fire station and, on
the side of the street opposite the entrance to any fire station, within 75
feet of the entrance when it is properly posted with signs;
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
such standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   Alongside any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or elevated structure upon a highway, or within a
highway tunnel;
      (14)   At any place where signs prohibit stopping;
      (15)   Within one foot of another parked vehicle;
      (16)   On the roadway portion of a freeway, expressway, or thruway;
      (17)   Maximum distance from curb or edge of roadway.
         (a)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there is an
adjacent curb or where there is not a curb, to paved edge of the roadway, shall
be stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle parallel with
and not more than 12 inches from the right-hand curb, or where there is not a
curb, to paved edge of the roadway.
         (b)   Whoever violates this division (A)(17) is guilty of minor
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $100. This division (A)(17) is in
addition to parking regulations in the codified ordinances.
      (18)   Minimum distance from an intersection.
         (a)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle, except while obeying
the directions of a police officer or a traffic-control device within any
intersection or within three feet of any intersections of streets with streets
or any intersections of streets with alleys.
         (b)   That whoever violates this division (A)(18) is guilty of minor
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $100. This division (A)(18) is in
addition to parking regulations in the codified ordinances.
         (c)   For purposes of this division (A)(18), INTERSECTION means:
            1.   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right
angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict;
            2.   Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection. If an intersecting
highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then every crossing
of two roadways of the highways shall be regarded as a separate intersection;
and
            3.   The junction of an alley with a street or highway, or with
another alley, shall constitute an INTERSECTION.
      (19)   Inoperative motor vehicle.
         (a)   1.   For the purpose of this division (A)(19), the term
INOPERATIVE MOTOR VEHICLE shall be deemed to mean any motor driven vehicle that
cannot, physically and lawfully, under its own power, be operated on the public
highways of this village, and have remained in an inoperative condition for 72
or more consecutive hours notwithstanding that the said motor driven vehicle is
legally licensed by the state.
            2.   a.   No person shall park or stand any inoperative motor
vehicle or motor vehicle parts on any dedicated street, alley, sidewalk or
other public place at any time.
               b.   No person shall store or place any inoperative motor
vehicle or motor vehicle parts on any property, or allow any inoperative motor
vehicle or parts to remain on any property, except to the extent that the
inoperative motor vehicle or parts are stored, placed or housed completely
within in a building where it shall not be visible from the street or other
private property.
            3.   This division (A)(19) shall not be applicable to properly
zoned service garages normally engaged in the business of repairing or
servicing automobiles; provided, however, that the persons engaged in the
business of repairing automobiles shall store the inoperative motor vehicle in
a neat and orderly fashion so as not to constitute a fire hazard or health
menace nor create an unsightly appearance.
            4.   Should a vehicle remain parked in violation of this division
(A)(19) for a period of more than 72 consecutive hours after being notified by
the village by notice delivered to the owner of the property when the
inoperative motor vehicle is located or upon placing a visible notice upon the
said inoperative motor vehicle parked on any public street, alley or sidewalk,
then in that event, the inoperative motor vehicle shall be considered a
nuisance and shall be subject to removal by the village and impounded. The
vehicle shall not be released from impound until any and all costs of towing
and storage shall be paid.
            5.   Any peace officer or zoning officer of the village may request
the owner of any suspected inoperative motor vehicle to demonstrate that a
vehicle appearing to be inoperative is or is not capable of movement legally
under its own power. If the owner fails to comply with a request, then, in that
case, such a refusal may be considered as prima facie evidence that the said
vehicle is an inoperative motor vehicle as defined in this division (A)(19).
         (b)   Whoever violates this division (A)(19) is guilty of minor
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $100. Each day constitutes a
separate offense. This division (A)(19) is in addition to parking regulations
in the codified ordinances.
   (B)   A person is permitted, without charge or restriction, to stand or park
on a sidewalk a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter that has an engine not
larger than 150 cubic centimeters, a low-speed micromobility device, or a
bicycle or electric bicycle, provided that the motor-driven cycle, motor
scooter, low-speed micromobility device, bicycle, or electric bicycle does not
impede the normal flow of pedestrian traffic. This division does not authorize
any person to operate a vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.711, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C), whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.68)
(Ord. 23-15, passed 12-21-2015; Ord. 24-15, passed 12-21-2015; Ord. 25-15,
passed 12-21-2015; Ord. 02-18, passed 2-12-2018)
§ 76.05 PARKING NEAR CURB; PRIVILEGES FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   (A)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there is an
adjacent curb shall be stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels of the
vehicle parallel with and not more than 12 inches from the right-hand curb,
unless it is impossible to approach so close to the curb; in such case the stop
shall be made as close to the curb as possible and only for the time necessary
to discharge and receive passengers or to load or unload merchandise. Local
authorities by ordinance may permit angle parking on any roadway under their
jurisdiction, except that angle parking shall not be permitted on a state route
within the municipality unless an unoccupied roadway width of not less than 25
feet is available for free- moving traffic.
   (B)   Local authorities by ordinance may permit parking of vehicles with the
left-hand wheels adjacent to and within 12 inches of the left-hand curb of a
one-way roadway.
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(1)(b) of this section,
no vehicle shall be stopped or parked on a road or highway with the vehicle
facing in a direction other than the direction of travel on that side of the
road or highway.
         (b)   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into an
angled parking space so that when the motorcycle is parked it is facing in a
direction other than the direction of travel on the side of the road or
highway.
      (2)   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into a parking
space that is located on the side of, and parallel to, a road or highway. The
motorcycle may face any direction when so parked. Not more than two motorcycles
at a time shall be parked in a parking space as described in division (C)(2) of
this section irrespective of whether or not the space is metered.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any statute or any rule, regulation, resolution, or
ordinance, air compressors, tractors, trucks, and other equipment, while being
used in the construction, reconstruction, installation, repair, or removal of
facilities near, on, over, or under a street or highway, may stop, stand, or
park where necessary in order to perform such work, provided a flagperson is on
duty or warning signs or lights are displayed as may be prescribed by the
Director of Transportation.
   (E)   Special parking locations and privileges for persons with disabilities
that limit or impair the ability to walk, also known as handicapped parking
spaces or disability parking spaces, shall be provided and designated by all
political subdivisions and by the state and all agencies and instrumentalities
thereof at all offices and facilities where parking is provided, whether owned,
rented, or leased, and at all publicly owned parking garages. The locations
shall be designated through the posting of an elevated sign, whether
permanently affixed or movable, imprinted with the international symbol of
access and shall be reasonably close to exits, entrances, elevators, and ramps.
All elevated signs posted in accordance with this division and R.C. § 3781.111
(C) shall be mounted on a fixed or movable post, and the distance from the
ground to the bottom edge of the sign shall measure not less than five feet. If
a new sign or a replacement sign designating a special parking location is
posted on or after October 14, 1999, there also shall be affixed upon the
surface of that sign or affixed next to the designating sign a notice that
states the fine applicable for the offense of parking a motor vehicle in the
special designated parking location if the motor vehicle is not legally
entitled to be parked in that location.
   (F)   (1)   (a)   No person shall stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle at
special parking locations provided under division (E) of this section, or at
special clearly marked parking locations provided in or on privately owned
parking lots, parking garages, or other parking areas and designated in
accordance with that division, unless one of the following applies:
            1.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a valid removable windshield placard or special license plates; or
            2.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a handicapped person and is displaying a parking card or special handicapped
license plates.
         (b)   Any motor vehicle that is parked in a special marked parking
location in violation of division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section
may be towed or otherwise removed from the parking location by the law
enforcement agency of the municipality. A motor vehicle that is so towed or
removed shall not be released to its owner until the owner presents proof of
ownership of the motor vehicle and pays all towing and storage fees normally
imposed by the municipality for towing and storing motor vehicles. If the motor
vehicle is a leased vehicle, it shall not be released to the lessee until the
lessee presents proof that that person is the lessee of the motor vehicle and
pays all towing and storage fees normally imposed by the municipality for
towing and storing motor vehicles.
         (c)   If a person is charged with a violation of division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section, it is an affirmative defense to the charge that
the person suffered an injury not more than 72 hours prior to the time the
person was issued the ticket or citation and that, because of the injury, the
person meets at least one of the criteria contained in R.C. § 4503.44(A)(1).
      (2)    No person shall stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle in an area
that is commonly known as an access aisle, which area is marked by diagonal
stripes and is located immediately adjacent to a special parking location
provided under division (E) of this section or at a special clearly marked
parking location provided in or on a privately owned parking lot, parking
garage, or other parking area and designated in accordance with that division.
   (G)   When a motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a
person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a removable windshield placard or a temporary removable windshield
placard or special license plates, or when a motor vehicle is being operated by
or for the transport of a handicapped person, and is displaying a parking card
or special handicapped license plates, the motor vehicle is permitted to park
for a period of two hours in excess of the legal parking period permitted by
local authorities, except where local ordinances or police rules provide
otherwise or where the vehicle is parked in such a manner as to be clearly a
traffic hazard.
   (H)   No owner of an office, facility, or parking garage where special
parking locations are required to be designated in accordance with division (E)
of this section shall fail to properly mark the special parking locations in
accordance with that division or fail to maintain the markings of the special
locations, including the erection and maintenance of the fixed or movable
signs.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require a person or
organization to apply for a removable windshield placard or special license
plates if the parking card or special license plates issued to the person or
organization under prior law have not expired or been surrendered or revoked.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      HANDICAPPED PERSON. Means any person who has lost the use of one or both
legs or one or both arms, who is blind, deaf, or so severely handicapped as to
be unable to move without the aid of crutches or a wheelchair, or whose
mobility is restricted by a permanent cardiovascular, pulmonary, or other
handicapping condition.
      PERSON WITH A DISABILITY THAT LIMITS OR IMPAIRS THE ABILITY TO WALK. Has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 4503.44.
      SPECIAL LICENSE PLATES and REMOVABLE WINDSHIELD PLACARD. Mean any license
plates or removable windshield placard or temporary removable windshield
placard issued under R.C. § 4503.41 or 4503.44, and also mean any substantially
equivalent license plates or removable windshield placard or temporary
removable windshield placard issued by a state, district, country, or
sovereignty.
   (K)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (A) or (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in
division (K)(2)(a) and (K)(2)(b) of this section. Except as otherwise provided
in division (K)(2)(a) of this section, an offender who violates division (F)(1)
(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section shall be fined not less than $250 nor more
than $500. An offender who violates division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section shall be fined not more than $100 if the offender, prior to sentencing,
proves either of the following to the satisfaction of the court:
            1.   At the time of the violation of division (F)(1)(a)1. of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a removable windshield placard that then was
valid or special license plates that then were valid but the offender or the
person neglected to display the placard or license plates as described in
division (F)(1)(a)1. of this section.
            2.   At the time of the violation of division (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a parking card that then was valid or special
handicapped license plates that then were valid but the offender or the person
neglected to display the card or license plates as described in division (F)(1)
(a)2. of this section.
         (b)   In no case shall an offender who violates division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. be sentenced to any term of imprisonment.
         (c)   An arrest or conviction for a violation of division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section does not constitute a criminal record and need
not be reported by the person so arrested or convicted in response to any
inquiries contained in any application for employment, license, or other right
or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s appearance as a witness.
         (d)   The clerk of the court shall pay every fine collected under
divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of this section to the municipality. Except as
provided in division (K)(2) of this section, the municipality shall use the
fine moneys it receives under divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of this section to
pay the expenses it incurs in complying with the signage and notice
requirements contained in division (E) of this section. The municipality may
use up to 50% of each fine it receives under divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of
this section to pay the costs of educational, advocacy, support, and assistive
technology programs for persons with disabilities, and for public improvements
within the municipality that benefit or assist persons with disabilities, if
governmental agencies or nonprofit organizations offer the programs.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (F)(2) of this section shall be fined not
less than $250 nor more than $500. In no case shall an offender who violates
division (F)(2) of this section be sentenced to any term of imprisonment. An
arrest or conviction for a violation of division (F)(2) of this section does
not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries contained in any application
for employment, license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection
with the person’s appearance as a witness.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (H) of this section shall be punished as
follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (K)(4) of this section,
the offender shall be issued a warning.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (H) of this section or of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to that division, the offender shall
not be issued a warning but shall be fined not more than $25 for each parking
location that is not properly marked or whose markings are not properly
maintained.
(R.C. § 4511.69)
Cross-reference:
   Unlawful furnishing of prescription to enable persons to be issued
handicapped parking placards or license plates, see §
138.17
Statutory reference:
   Buildings, access for disabled persons, see R.C. § 3781.111
§ 76.06 PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY IN VIOLATION OF POSTED PROHIBITION.
   (A)   If an owner of private property posts on the property in a conspicuous
manner a prohibition against parking on the property or conditions and
regulations under which parking is permitted, no person shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   Park a vehicle on the property without the owner’s consent;
      (2)   Park a vehicle on the property in violation of any condition or
regulation posted by the owner.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.681)
§ 76.07 SELLING, WASHING OR REPAIRING VEHICLE UPON ROADWAY.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon any roadway for the
principal purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying such vehicle for sale; or
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle except repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.08 TRUCK LOADING ZONES.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of
time, other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup and
loading of materials, in any place marked as a truck loading zone during hours
when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no case shall
the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.09 BUS STOPS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a
bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand, when any such stop or
stand has been officially designated and appropriately posted, except that the
driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of,
and while actually engaged in, loading or unloading passengers when such
stopping does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about
to enter such zone, and then only for a period not to exceed three minutes, if
such stopping is not prohibited therein by posted signs.
   (B)   No operator of a bus shall stop, stand or park such vehicle upon any
street or other public way at any place for the purpose of loading or unloading
passengers or their baggage other than at a bus stop so designated and posted
as such, except in case of an emergency.
   (C)   No operator of a bus shall fail to enter a bus stop on a street or
other public way in such a manner that the bus when stopped to load or unload
passengers or baggage is in a position with the right front wheel of such
vehicle not further than 18 inches from the curb and the bus approximately
parallel to the curb so as not to unduly impede the movement of other vehicular
traffic.
   (D)   No operator of a taxicab shall stand or park such vehicle upon any
street or other public way at any place other than in a taxicab stand so
designated and posted as such. This provision shall not prevent the operator of
a taxicab from temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or
parking provisions at any place for the purpose of, and while actually engaged
in, the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.10 PARKING IN ALLEYS AND NARROW STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon a street, other
than an alley, in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available
less than ten feet of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular
traffic, except that a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or
unloading of passengers or when directed to by a police officer or traffic-
control signal.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by law, no person shall stop, stand or
park a vehicle within an alley except while actually loading and unloading, and
then only for a period not to exceed 30 minutes.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.11 REGISTERED OWNER PRIMA FACIE LIABLE FOR UNLAWFUL PARKING.
   In any hearing on a charge of illegally parking a motor vehicle, testimony
that a vehicle bearing a certain license plate was found unlawfully parked as
prohibited by the provisions of this Traffic Code, and further testimony that
the record of the Ohio Registrar of Motor Vehicles shows that the license plate
was issued to the defendant, shall be prima facie evidence that the vehicle
which was unlawfully parked, was so parked by the defendant. A certified
registration copy, showing such fact, from the Registrar shall be proof of such
ownership.
§ 76.12 WAIVER.
   Any person charged with a violation of any provision of this chapter for
which payment of a prescribed fine may be made, may pay such sum in the manner
prescribed on the issued traffic ticket. Such payment shall be deemed a plea of
guilty, waiver of court appearance and acknowledgment of conviction of the
alleged offense and may be accepted in full satisfaction of the prescribed
penalty for such alleged violation. Payment of the prescribed fine need not be
accepted when laws prescribe that a certain number of such offenses shall
require court appearance.
§ 76.13 PARKING DURING SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   A snow emergency exists where freezing rain or two inches or more of
snow has fallen whereas constituting a serious public hazard.
   (B)   During such snow emergency, in order to properly clean the streets,
vehicles will be legally parked on all village streets except for the downtown
business districts between College Avenue and Jefferson Street and Jackson
Street and Vance Street, and any streets which currently restrict parking to
one side of the street only, when:
      (1)   On odd-numbered calendar days, vehicles are parked on the side of
the street which has odd-numbered building addresses; and
      (2)   On even-numbered calendar days, vehicles are parked on the side of
the street which has even-numbered building addresses.
   (C)   No vehicles shall be permitted to park in village parking lots or in
the downtown business districts between College Avenue and Jefferson Street and
Jackson Street and Vance Street, or any streets which currently restrict
parking to one side of the street only, for a longer continuous time than 24
hours until such time that the snow has been cleaned up.
   (D)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle parked in violation of
this section, such officer may require the driver or other person in charge of
the vehicle to move the same, to a position off the street or parking lot, or
such officer may cause the vehicle to be moved or impounded at the owner’s
expense.
   (E)   Whoever violates the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a
minor misdemeanor and may be fined not in excess of $100.
(Ord. 3-99, passed 3-8-1999; Ord. 02-18, passed 2-12-2018) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.14 PARKING OF CERTAIN VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   Subject to the provisions of this section, all parking of motor vehicles
shall at all times comply with the parking ordinances of the village, as
amended.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be parked or stored in any residential district of
the village as designated by the zoning ordinance of the village, as amended,
that is a semitractor, semitrailer, commercial bus, school bus, dump truck,
garbage truck, construction equipment of any kind not in current use on the
property where it is parked or stored, or other motor vehicle or trailer that
is primarily used for the transportation, deliver or temporary storage of
equipment, tools, freight, products for sale, refuse, junk, parts or the like.
   (B)   Division (A) above shall not apply to one motor vehicle, as set forth
in division (A), operated by a resident of the home or dwelling where it is
parked provided that the same is not a semitractor, semitrailer, commercial
bus, school bus, dump truck, garbage truck or construction equipment of any
kind not in current use on the property where it is parked or stored.
   (C)   Any person in violation of this section shall be fined not more that
$100 for each violation. Each vehicle and each day are deemed to be a separate
violation of this section.
(Ord. 26-02, passed 10-14-2002; Ord. 38-02, passed 12-23-2002) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
70.99.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates §§
76.13,
76.14 and
Chapter 78 (excluding Schedule II) of the village shall be guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and shall be fined as follows:
 
1st offense within 1 year                $10
2nd offense within 1 year                $15
3rd and subsequent offense within 1 year $30
 
      (2)   Fines shall be doubled if not paid in full within 30 days of
violation or plea in a court of competent jurisdiction.
      (3)   Three or more violations of §§
76.13,
76.14 and
Chapter 78 (excluding Schedule II) that are not paid within one year from the
first violation thereof shall result in the impounding of the vehicle. Said
impounding is subject to R.C. §§ 4503.233 and 4503.235. The period of
immobilization or impoundment shall be for a period of 30 days. That the owner
of the vehicle shall be responsible for any and all costs associated with such
impoundment.
      (4)   This division (B) does not modify, repeal or amend any other
ordinance or means of enforcement available to the village including, but not
limited to, the remedies and penalties set forth in R.C. § 4513.65.
(Ord. 12-02, passed 5-7-2002)
CHAPTER 77: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Truck traffic
      
III.   One way traffic
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
 
Street       Restriction                         Speed Limit Ord. Date Passed
Rail traffic                                     35 mph      4-82 3-16-1982
Snider Road  From Main Street to the corporation 25 mph      8-97 5-27-1997
             limit
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. TRUCK TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or park a commercial
truck vehicle upon the streets or public thoroughfares, or portions thereof, of
the village, as hereinafter set forth at any time on Jefferson Street from Main
Street to Jackson Street.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or park a
commercial truck vehicle upon the streets or public thoroughfares, or portions
thereof, of the village, as hereinafter set forth at any time on Thurman Street
from East Elm Street to Jefferson Street.
      (2)   A COMMERCIAL TRUCK shall be defined as a semitractor, semitrailer
and commercial bus.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for persons to operate a semitrailer on any
part of Lake Street in the village without making a legitimate stop or
delivery.
      (2)   For purposes of this division (B), SEMITRAILER means every vehicle
designed or used for carrying persons or property with another and separate
motor vehicle so that in operation a part of its own weight or that of its
load, or both, rests upon and is carried by another vehicle. The term includes
a vehicle coupled to another vehicle or a combination of vehicles provided the
weight or load, or both, of at least one of such vehicles rests upon and is
carried by another vehicle. The term does not, however, include trailers of the
domestic variety, commonly referred to as trailers, recreational vehicles or
campers.
   (D)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or park a
commercial truck vehicle upon the streets or public thoroughfares, or portions
thereof, of the village as hereinafter set forth at any time: on North Spring
Street between Riley Street and Snider Road; except for deliveries being made
coming from Snider Road. At no time shall a commercial truck vehicle attempt to
use the bridge on North Spring Street.
      (2)   A COMMERCIAL TRUCK shall be defined as a semitractor, semitrailer
and commercial bus.
   (E)   Whoever violates this schedule is guilty of minor misdemeanor and
shall be fined not more than $100.
(Ord. 19-96, passed 6-10-1996; Ord. 12-04, passed 8-9-2004; Ord. 38-10, passed
1-24-2011; Ord. 22-15, passed 12-21-2015)
SCHEDULE III. ONE WAY TRAFFIC.
Street Restricted Area Ord. Date Passed
Street                         Restricted Area                Ord.  Date Passed
                               Open in both northwesterly and
Alley located between Lot      southeasterly directions from
Number 165 and Lot Number 166  Lawn Avenue intersection to    22-96 6-10-1996
                               the southeasterly end of Lot
                               Number 165 at any time
                               Open in a southeasterly
                               direction only, from the
                               intersection thereof with Main
                               Street to the intersection
Alley located between Lot      thereof with a certain 15-foot 31-82 1-4-1982
Number 61 and Lot Number 62    alley thus proceeding from
                               Main Street to the said 15-
                               foot alley, being the first
                               alley parallel to and
                               southeasterly from Main Street
                               Open in a southeasterly
                               direction only, from the
                               intersection thereof with Main
                               Street to the intersection
Alley located between Lot      thereof with a certain 14-foot 31-82 1-4-1982
Number 63 and Lot Number 64    alley thus proceeding from
                               Main Street to the said 14-
                               foot alley, being the first
                               alley parallel to and
                               southeasterly from Main Street
                               Open in a southeasterly
                               direction only, from the
                               intersection thereof with Main
                               Street to the intersection
Alley located between Lot      thereof with a certain 14-foot 31-82 1-4-1982
Number 66 and Lot Number 67    alley, thus proceeding from
                               Main Street to the said 14-
                               foot alley, being the first
                               alley parallel to and
                               southeasterly from Main Street
                               Open in a southeasterly
                               direction only, from the
                               intersection thereof with Main
                               Street to the intersection
Alley located between Lot      thereof with a certain 14-foot 31-82 1-4-1982
Number 70 and 71               alley, thus proceeding from
                               Main street to the said 14-
                               foot alley, being the first
                               alley parallel to and
                               southeasterly from Main Street
                               Open to traffic in a
Alley located between Lot      southeasterly direction
Number 153 and Lot Number 154  thereof with Lawn Avenue to
and between Lot Number 167 and the intersection thereof with  31-82 1-4-1982
Lot Number 168                 Jackson Street, thus
                               proceeding from Lawn Avenue to
                               Jackson Street
                               Open in a northwesterly
                               direction only, from the
                               intersection thereof with Main
                               Street, to the intersection
Alley located between Lot      thereof with a certain 16.5-   31-82 1-4-1982
Number 103 and Lot Number 104  foot alley, thus proceeding
                               from Main Street to the said
                               16.5-foot alley, being the
                               first alley parallel to and
                               Northwesterly from Main Street
                               Open to traffic in a
                               northwesterly direction only,
                               from the intersection thereof
                               with Main Street, to the
Alley located between Lot      intersection thereof with a
Number 107 and Lot Number 108  certain 16.5- foot alley, thus 31-82 1-4-1982
                               proceeding from Main Street to
                               the said 16.5-foot alley,
                               being the first alley parallel
                               to and northwesterly from Main
                               Street
                               Open to traffic in a
Alley located between Lot      northwesterly direction from
Number 156 and Lot Number 157  the intersection thereof with
and between Lot Number 165 and Jackson Street to the          31-82 1-4-1982
Lot Number 166                 intersection thereof with Lawn
                               Avenue, thus proceeding from
                               Jackson Street to Lawn Avenue
                               From the intersection thereof
                               with Main Street to the
                               intersection thereof with
Franklin Street                Jackson Street, and traffic    31-82 1-4-1982
                               thereon shall proceed only in
                               a northwesterly direction,
                               thus proceeding from Main
                               Street to Jackson Street
                               From the intersection thereof
                               with Main Street to the
                               intersection thereof with
Vine Street                    Jackson Street, and traffic    31-82 1-4-1982
                               thereon shall proceed only in
                               a northwesterly direction,
                               thus proceeding from Main
                               Street to Jackson Street
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 78: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Restricted parking
      
II.   Handicap parking
      
III.   Permit parking
      
IV.   Parking near fire station
      
V.   Municipal parking lots
SCHEDULE I. RESTRICTED PARKING.
   (A)   Generally.
Street Direction Parking Restriction Ord. Date Passed
Street               Direction          Parking Restriction   Ord.  Date Passed
                                        Within 20 feet of any
                                      intersection or       2-91  3-5-1991
                                        marked crosswalk in
                                        the village
                                        From the intersection
Bentley Road         West side          thereof with Grove    2-91  3-5-1991
                                        Street north to the
                                        village limits
                                        From the intersection
                                        thereof with Grove
Bentley Road         Westerly side      Street to the         16-82 6-15-1982
                                        intersection thereof
                                        with the bridge over
                                        Little Riley Creek
                                        From the intersection
                                        thereof with Main
                                        Street to the south
                                        corporation limits of
Bentley Road                           the village, being    2-91  3-5-1991
                                        that portion of
                                        Bentley Road
                                        designated as State
                                        Route 103
                                        No longer than 1 hour
                                        to permit loading and
                                        unloading of the
Bluffton College                       motor vehicle on the  2-91  3-5-1991
Campus                                  public streets
                                        located within the
                                        boundaries of the
                                        campus
                                        From the intersection
                                        thereof with Campus
Campus Drive         Northwesterly side View Drive to the     2-91  3-5-1991
                                        intersection thereof
                                        with Spring Street
                                        From the point of
                                        intersection of Huber
                                        Street to the point
Cherry Street        Either side        of intersection       2-91  3-5-1991
                                        therewith with the
                                        centerline of the
                                        alley separating Lots
                                        385 and 386
                                        From the Norfolk and
Cherry Street        Northeasterly and  Western Railroad to   2-91  3-5-1991
                     north side         the Allen Hancock
                                        County Line Road
                                        From the intersection
                                        thereof with the
                                        alley lying on the
                                        northwesterly side of
Cherry Street        Southwesterly side Lot 191 to the        2-91  3-5-1991
                                        intersection thereof
                                        with the alley lying
                                        between Lots 188 and
                                        189
                                        From the intersection
                                        thereof with Main
                                        Street to the
                                        intersection thereof
                                        with Jackson Street,
                                        as posted, on any day
                                        during which the
College Avenue       Northeasterly side public school of the  2-91  3-5-1991
                                        Bluffton Exempted
                                        Village School
                                        District is in
                                        session, between the
                                        hours of 8:00 a.m.
                                        Eastern Standard Time
                                        to 4:00 p.m. Eastern
                                        Standard Time
Commerce Lane        West side                               19-15 11-16-2015
                                        From the alley that
                                        intersects East Elm
East Elm Street      Northwesterly side Street between 204    07-12 5-29-2012
                                        North Main Street and
                                        105 East Elm Street
                                        to North Main Street
                                        22.5 feet on either
                                        side of the mail drop
                                        box located on the
Franklin Street                        southwesterly side of 2-91  3-5-1991
                                        across from the
                                        United States Post
                                        Office
                                        From the intersection
                                        thereof with Main
                                        Street to the
                                        intersection thereof
Franklin Street      Either side        with the first alley  2-91  3-5-1991
                                        northwesterly of Main
                                        Street, for a period
                                        of longer than 10
                                        minutes from 6:00
                                        a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
                                        From the intersection
                                        thereof with the
Franklin Street      Southwesterly side first alley           2-91  3-5-1991
                                        northwesterly of Main
                                        Street to Jackson
                                        Street at anytime
                                        From the intersection
                                        thereof with the
                                        alley lying between
Garau Street         Southwesterly side Lots 599 and 665 and  2-91  3-5-1991
                                        a certain vacated
                                        alley lying between
                                        Lots 664 and 663
                                        From the intersection
                                        thereof with South
Grove Street         Northeasterly and  Main Street to the    2-91  3-5-1991
                     north side         intersection thereof
                                        with Bentley Road
                                        (Kibler Street)
                                        From the intersection
                                        thereof with Spring
High Street          Northeasterly side Street to the         2-91  3-5-1991
                                        intersection thereof
                                        with Main Street
                                        In front of the
                                        Bluffton Elementary
                                        School from Vine
                                        Street to the alley
                                        between Lots 156 and
                                        157 in the village on
                                        any day during which
Jackson Street       Northwesterly side the public school of  2-91  3-5-1991
                                        the Bluffton Exempted
                                        Village School
                                        District is in
                                        session, between the
                                        hours of 8:00 a.m.
                                        Eastern Standard Time
                                        to 4:00 p.m. Eastern
                                        Standard Time
                                        From the intersection
                                        thereof with Main
                                        Street to the
Jefferson Street                       corporate limits of   2-91  3-5-1991
                                        the village, the same
                                        being the westerly
                                        right-of-way line of
                                        Interstate 75
                                        From the intersection
                                        thereof with South
Kibler Street        Southwesterly side Main Street to the    11-76 11-2-1976
                                        intersection of
                                        Jackson Street
                                        From the intersection
                     Southwesterly and  thereof with South
Kibler Street        westerly side      Jackson Street to the 16-82 6-15-1982
                                        intersection thereof
                                        with Grove Street
                                        From the intersection
                     Southwesterly and  thereof with South
Kibler Street        westerly side      Main Street to the    2-91  3-5-1991
                                        intersection thereof
                                        with Grove Street
                                        From the intersection
                                        thereof with West
Lawn Avenue          Southeasterly side College Avenue to the 2-91  3-5-1991
                                        intersection thereof
                                        with West Elm Street
                                        From the intersection
                                        of College Avenue to
                                        the intersection
Main Street                            thereof with Elm      2-91  3-5-1991
                                        Street, in the areas
                                        delineated, between
                                        the hours of 3:00
                                        a.m. and 5:00 a.m.
                                        Unlawful for persons
                                        to park or allow a
Main and Jefferson   Southwest corner   vehicle to stand 50   27-15 12-21-2015
Streets intersection                    feet on the southwest
                                        corner of the
                                        intersection
                                        Between College
Spring Street        Either side        Avenue and High       2-91  3-5-1991
                                        Street
                                        From the intersection
                                        thereof with Franklin
Spring Street        Northeasterly side Street to the         2-91  3-5-1991
                                        intersection thereof
                                        with College Avenue
                                        From West College
South Lawn Avenue    Southeasterly side Avenue to Grove       09-21 10-25-2021
                                        Street
                                        From the intersection
                                        thereof with College
Triplett Drive                         Avenue to the         2-91  3-5-1991
                                        intersection thereof
                                        with Poplar Street
                                        Between Rosenberger
West College Avenue  Northeasterly and  Drive and the         2-91  3-5-1991
                     north side         intersection thereof
                                        with Bentley Road
                                        From the bridge over
                     Southwesterly and  Little Riley Creek to
West College Avenue  southerly side     the intersection      2-91  3-5-1991
                                        thereof with Bentley
                                        Road
                                        From Rosenberger
West Elm Street      Southwesterly side Drive to North Spring 07-19 7-22-2019
                                        Street
 
   (B)   Penalty. Whoever violates this schedule is guilty of minor misdemeanor
and shall be fined not more than $100.
(Ord. 03-2020, passed 8-10-2020) Penalty, see §
76.99
SCHEDULE II. HANDICAP PARKING.
   (A)   The following handicap parking spaces are hereby created:
      (1)   At the intersection of North Main Street and Vine Street: the first
space on Vine Street adjacent to Lot 102;
      (2)   At the intersection of North Main Street and Church Street: the
first space on Church Street adjacent to Lot 105;
      (3)   The parking space in the northwest corner of Lot No. 58 located in
the municipal parking lot between Thurman and Main Streets;
      (4)   Two parking spaces on the southeasterly side of Jackson Street at
the entrance to the school; and
      (5)   All handicap parking spaces located on private property, and
designated by the property owner.
   (B)   Appropriate signs shall be erected covering the matters herein set
forth.
   (C)   Any vehicle parked in a handicap zone must display either a handicap
license plate or a card for display on the vehicle.
   (D)   Whoever violates this schedule is guilty of minor misdemeanor and
shall be fined not more than $100.
(Ord. 2-91, passed 3-5-1991)
SCHEDULE III. PERMIT PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for certain persons to park or allow a vehicle to
stand upon the streets or public thoroughfares, or portions, thereof, of the
village, without a permit, on or along High Street, where parking is allowed
from Main Street to Lawn Avenue from 6:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m.
   (B)   This schedule shall not be binding upon those persons who receive a
valid parking permit through the office of the Village Administrator. Only
those persons or entities who own real estate along either side of the above
named streets or their lawful tenants, shall be entitled to receive a parking
permit from the village as aforementioned.
   (C)   Whoever violates this schedule is guilty of minor misdemeanor and
shall be fined not more than $500.
(Ord. 22-00, passed 11-7-2000)
SCHEDULE IV. PARKING NEAR FIRE STATION.
   (A)   The fire station entrance should be posted on Main and Washington
Streets for safety purposes.
   (B)   The entrance is posted with signs and painted curbs for no parking
within 75 feet of the fire station on the east side of Main Street and the
north side of Washington Street as per R.C. § 4511.68(J).
   (C)   The entrance shall be curb painted for no parking within 20 feet of
the fire station on the west side of Main Street and the south side of
Washington Street as per R.C. § 4511.68(J).
   (D)   Whoever violates this schedule is guilty of parking in a no parking
zone and will be fined as such.
(Ord. 9-02, passed 5-7-2002) Penalty, see §
76.99
SCHEDULE V. MUNICIPAL PARKING LOTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for persons to park or allow a vehicle to stand
upon any municipal parking lot, or portions, thereof, of the village for more
than seven consecutive days. Law enforcement shall be responsible for the
issuance of proper citations.
   (B)   Whoever violates this schedule is guilty of minor misdemeanor and
shall be fined not more than $100. Each day that a vehicle remains parked or
stands on a municipal parking lots shall be a separate offense.
   (C)   Should a vehicle remain parked for a period of more than seven
consecutive days on any municipal parking lot, in that event, the same shall be
considered a nuisance and shall be subject to removal by the village and
impounded. The vehicle shall not be released from impound until any and all
costs of towing and storage shall be paid.
(Ord. 26-15, passed 12-21-2015)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIREWORKS, EXPLOSIVES, FIRE PREVENTION
      
92.   VILLAGE PARKS
      
93.   VILLAGE TREES
      
94.   VILLAGE CEMETERY
      
95.   SIDEWALKS AND STREETS
      96.   NUISANCES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   General provisions
   
90.02   Permit required for certain animals; fee
   
90.03   Animal nuisance
   
90.04   Right to appeal
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Animals are fundamental for human life. They provide food and
contribute to the balance of the natural order that is essential for people. In
addition to the physical well-being of humans and the natural order animals
provide psychological and emotional support to people.
   (B)   In spite of the many benefits of animals for people, animals can also
be a source of danger for public health and safety. Animals may present
potential for injury to and disease when unregulated among human populations.
Animals may also be the cause of annoyance and discomfort to people.
   (C)   Because they are essential for human existence animals should be
accorded respect and proper care and maintenance. It is in the best interests
of the Village of Bluffton to allow the use and presence of animals in the
village while regulating the conditions under which they are present for the
well-being of all.
(Ord. 12-2020, passed - -)
§ 90.02 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN ANIMALS; FEE.
   (A)   Residents of the village who keep animals outside are required to have
a permit. Keeping dogs and cats is excepted from this requirement so long as
they do not become a nuisance as defined below. Also, see R.C. § 955.01 for
Ohio state requirement of a license for all dogs over three months of age.
   (B)   Permits are issued by household and the cost of each permit shall be
$10. Permits must be updated to reflect changes to the current animals being
kept.
   (C)   Further rules and regulations governing the issuance of such permits
shall be promulgated by the Zoning Officer.
   (D)   Prohibited animals.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain, or have
possession or under his control live within the Village of Bluffton any of the
following animals:
         (a)   Any animal declared protected or endangered by the U.S.
Department of Interior or the Ohio Revised Code;
         (b)   All venomous reptiles and venomous snakes;
         (c)   Bears (ursidae);
         (d)   All wild Canids, that is: wolves, foxes, jackals, dingo, coyote;
         (e)   Civet;
         (f)   Crocodilians, that is: alligators, crocodiles, caimans,
gahrials;
         (g)   All wild cats and hybrids of wild and domesticated cats;
         (h)   Anthropoid apes;
         (i)   Marsupials;
         (j)   Procyonidae; or
         (k)   Non-domesticated weasels.
      (2)   The provisions of division (D) shall not apply to following:
         (a)   Licensed medical and licensed educational institutions;
         (b)   Licensed rehabilitation facilities and licensed nuisance
trappers;
         (c)   Licensed veterinary hospital; or
         (d)   Any circus or rodeo.
   (E)   Any person keeping an animal who does not have a permit shall have ten
days after receipt of notice of violation to register and get a permit. If the
person fails to get a permit within the period required village personnel may
remove any such animal at the expense of the person keeping or harboring such
animal(s).
   (F)   Any person keeping dogs or cats who receives an order to abate a
nuisance under §
90.03 may be required in that order to register for a permit under this
section.
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and may
be fined not in excess of $150.
(Ord. 12-2020, passed - -)
§ 90.03 ANIMAL NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person, owner, or keeper to permit or cause
an animal to create or maintain a nuisance.
   (B)   (1)   Nuisance defined.
         (a)   Any act of an animal or its owner that disturbs the rights and
privileges common to the public; or that diminishes enjoyment of private
property; or that damages real or personal property; or that threatens the
safety of a member of the general public; or that diminishes the general health
and welfare of the public.
         (b)   Actions defined as a nuisance include, but are not limited to:
            1.   Allowing an animal to be at large;
            2.   Allowing an animal to cause damage or to soil the real or
personal property of another;
            3.   Allowing an animal to habitually or repeatedly disturb,
interfere with or annoy human beings;
            4.   Allowing an animal to chase, snap at, or otherwise molest
persons or other animals;
            5.   Allowing an animal to loiter on public or private places; or
            6.   Keeping or harboring an animal that is diseased or unsafe to
the health of the public without seeking the care of a licensed veterinarian.
      (2)   Also, see R.C. § 955.11 for definition of a dangerous dog and rules
for transferring ownership of such.
   (C)   If the Zoning Officer or a law enforcement officer observes a
violation of this section or the Zoning Officer receives a written, signed
complaint from any other person alleging that any person, owner, or keeper is
creating or maintaining a nuisance by keeping an animal, the Zoning Officer
shall cause the owner or keeper of the animal in question to be notified that a
complaint has been received; shall investigate the situation; and shall prepare
a written report.
   (D)   The written report of the Zoning Officer shall include a decision by
the Zoning Officer of whether a violation of this section has occurred.
   (E)   If the Zoning Officer determines that a violation of this section has
occurred they shall issue a written order to abate the nuisance to the person
who is keeping the animal. The person who is issued the order to abate shall
have a period of ten days to abate the stated nuisance.
   (F)   If, after ten days as is designated in an abatement order, the
nuisance is not abated, the owner or keeper may be issued a civil penalty or
other appropriate legal remedy, which may include an order: to register for a
permit; to remove the animal or animals from their property; to pay a fine; to
restore, repair or pay for damage caused by the animal; or to take specific
measures to mitigate the nuisance condition. Such order shall include a period
within which such action must be completed, not to exceed 30 days.
(Ord. 12-2020, passed - -)
§ 90.04 RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   Any village resident who has received an order to abate has the right to
appeal the order in writing to the Village Council within ten days of receiving
the order.
(Ord. 12-2020, passed - -)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who has received but failed to comply with an order under § 90.03
(F) shall be guilty of a fourth degree misdemeanor with a penalty of up to 30
days in jail and a fine up to $250.
(Ord. 12-2020, passed - -)
CHAPTER 91: FIREWORKS, EXPLOSIVES, FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks and Explosives
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Possession, sale, and use of fireworks
   
91.03   Permit to use fireworks
   
91.04   Manufacturing or wholesale sale without a license; prohibitions
   
91.05   Purchasers to comply with law; unauthorized purchases
   
91.06   Exhibition without a license; prohibitions for exhibitions
   
91.07   Unauthorized transportation or shipping
   
91.08   Application of subchapter
   
91.09   Arrest of offender; seizure and forfeiture of fireworks; distribution
of fines
   
91.10   Safety requirements for fireworks showroom structures
   
91.11   Storage of explosives
   
91.12   Blasting permit
Fire Prevention
   
91.30   Removal of flammable materials or obstructions
   
91.31   Protective appliances
   
91.32   Compliance with order
   
91.33   Waste receptacles
   
91.34   Hotel to have fire warning device producing visible signal
   
91.35   Fire suppression systems
   
91.36   Violations of State Fire Code prohibited
   
91.37   Posting arson notices in hotels, motels and other places
   
91.38   Negligent burning
   
91.39   Spreading alarm of unfriendly fire
   
91.40   Unvented heaters
Open Burning
   
91.55   Definitions
   
91.56   Relations to other prohibitions
   
91.57   Open burning in restricted areas
   
91.58   Permission and notice to open burn
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
     Failure to secure dangerous ordnance, see §
137.06
     Fire Department, see
Chapter 36
     License to possess dangerous ordnance, see §
137.10
   Vehicles carrying explosives, see §
74.36
Statutory reference:
   Fire Marshal, fire safety, see R.C. Chapter 3737
   Fireworks, state law provisions, see R.C. Chapter 3743
   Ohio Fire Code, see O.A.C. Chapter 1301:7-7
   Open burning, see O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19
   Power to regulate explosives, see R.C. § 715.60
FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   1.3G FIREWORKS. Display fireworks consistent with regulations of the United
States Department of Transportation as expressed using the designation
“Division 1.3" in Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
   1.4G FIREWORKS. Consumer fireworks consistent with regulations of the United
States Department of Transportation as expressed using the designation
“Division 1.4" in Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
   BEER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4301.01.
   BOOBY TRAP. A small tube that has a string protruding from both ends that
has a friction-sensitive composition and that is ignited by pulling the ends of
the string.
   CIGARETTE LOAD. A small wooden peg that is coated with a small quantity of
explosive composition and that is ignited in a cigarette.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   DISCHARGE SITE. An area immediately surrounding the mortars used to fire
aerial shells.
   FIREWORKS. Any composition or device prepared for the purpose of producing a
visible or an audible effect by combustion, deflagration, or detonation, except
ordinary matches and except as provided in R.C. § 3743.80.
   FIREWORKS INCIDENT. Any action or omission that occurs at a fireworks
exhibition that results in injury or death, or a substantial risk of injury or
death, to any person, and that involves either of the following:
      (1)   The handling or other use, or the results of the handling or other
use, of fireworks or associated equipment or other materials;
      (2)   The failure of any person to comply with any applicable requirement
imposed by this chapter or R.C. Chapter 3743, or any applicable rule adopted
under this chapter or R.C. Chapter 3743.
   FIREWORKS INCIDENT SITE. A discharge site or other location at a fireworks
exhibition where a fireworks incident occurs, a location where an injury or
death associated with a fireworks incident occurs, or a location where evidence
of a fireworks incident or an injury or death associated with a fireworks
incident is found
   FIREWORKS PLANT. All buildings and other structures in which the
manufacturing of fireworks, or the storage or sale of manufactured fireworks by
a manufacturer, takes place.
   FOUNTAIN DEVICE. Means a specific type of 1.4G firework that meets all of
the following criteria:
      (1)   It is nonaerial and nonreport producing.
      (2)   It is recognized and manufactured in accordance with sections 3.1.1
and 3.5 of APA standard 87-1 (2001 edition).
      (3)   It is a ground-based or hand-held sparkler with one or more tubes
containing a nonexplosive pyrotechnic mixture that produces a shower of sparks
upon ignition, with or without additional effects that may include a colored
flame, audible crackling effect, audible whistle effect, or smoke.
      (4)   It contains not more than 75 grams of the nonexplosive pyrotechnic
mixture in any individual tube and not more than 500 grams or less for multiple
tubes.
   HIGHWAY. Any public street, road, alley, way, lane or other public
thoroughfare.
   INTOXICATING LIQUOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4301.01.
   LICENSED BUILDING. A building on the licensed premises of a licensed
manufacturer or wholesaler of fireworks that is approved for occupancy by the
building official having jurisdiction.
   LICENSED EXHIBITOR OF FIREWORKS or LICENSED EXHIBITOR. A person licensed
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.50 through 3743.55.
   LICENSED FOUNTAIN DEVICE RETAILER or LICENSED RETAILER. Means a person
licensed pursuant to R.C. § 3743.26.
   LICENSED MANUFACTURER OF FIREWORKS or LICENSED MANUFACTURER. A person
licensed pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.02 through 3743.08.
   LICENSED PREMISES. The real estate upon which a licensed manufacturer or
wholesaler of fireworks conducts business.
   LICENSED WHOLESALER OF FIREWORKS or LICENSED WHOLESALER. A person licensed
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.15 through 3743.21.
   LIST OF LICENSED EXHIBITORS. The list required by R.C. § 3743.51(C).
   LIST OF LICENSED MANUFACTURERS. The list required by R.C. § 3743.03(C).
   LIST OF LICENSED WHOLESALERS. The list required by R.C. § 3743.16(C).
   MANUFACTURING OF FIREWORKS. The making of fireworks from raw materials, none
of which in and of themselves constitute fireworks, or the processing of
fireworks.
   NAVIGABLE WATERS. Any body of water susceptible of being used in its
ordinary condition as a highway of commerce over which trade and travel is or
may be conducted in the customary modes, but does not include a body of water
that is not capable of navigation by barges, tugboats, and other large vessels.
   NOVELTIES and TRICK NOISEMAKERS.
      (1)   Devices that produce a small report intended to surprise the user,
including but not limited to booby traps, cigarette loads, party poppers, and
snappers;
      (2)   Snakes or glow worms;
      (3)   Smoke devices;
      (4)   Trick matches.
   PARTY POPPER. A small plastic or paper item that contains not more than 16
milligrams of friction-sensitive explosive composition that is ignited by
pulling a string protruding from the item, and from which paper streamers are
expelled when the item is ignited.
   PROCESSING OF FIREWORKS. The making of fireworks from materials all or part
of which in and of themselves constitute fireworks, but does not include the
mere packaging or repackaging of fireworks.
   RAILROAD. Any railway or railroad that carries freight or passengers for
hire, but does not include auxiliary tracks, spurs, and sidings installed and
primarily used in serving a mine, quarry or plant.
   RETAIL SALE or SELL AT RETAIL. A sale of fireworks to a purchaser who
intends to use the fireworks and not to resell them.
   SMOKE DEVICE. A tube or sphere that contains pyrotechnic composition that,
upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
   SNAKE or GLOW WORM. A device that consists of a pressed pellet of
pyrotechnic composition that produces a large snake-like ash upon burning,
which ash expands in length as the pellet burns.
   SNAPPER. A small paper-wrapped item that contains a minute quantity of
explosive composition coated on small bits of sand and that, when dropped,
implodes.
   STORAGE LOCATION. A single parcel or contiguous parcels of real estate
approved by the Ohio Fire Marshal pursuant to R.C. § 3743.04(I) or R.C. §
3743.17(F) that are separate from a licensed premises containing a retail
showroom, and which parcel or parcels a licensed manufacturer or wholesaler of
fireworks may use only for the distribution, possession, and storage of
fireworks in accordance with this chapter.
   TRICK MATCH. A kitchen or book match that is coated with a small quantity of
explosive composition and that, upon ignition, produces a small report or a
shower of sparks.
   WHOLESALE SALE or SELL AT WHOLESALE. A sale of fireworks to a purchaser who
intends to resell the fireworks so purchased.
   WIRE SPARKLER. A sparkler consisting of a wire or stick coated with a
nonexplosive pyrotechnic mixture that produces a shower of sparks upon ignition
and that contains no more than 100 grams of this mixture.
(R.C. § 3743.01)
§ 91.02 POSSESSION, SALE, AND USE OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   No person shall possess fireworks in this municipality or shall
possess for sale or sell fireworks in this municipality, except a licensed
manufacturer of fireworks as authorized by R.C. §§ 3743.02 to 3743.08, a
licensed wholesaler of fireworks as authorized by R.C. §§ 3743.15 to 3743.21, a
shipping permit holder as authorized by R.C. § 3743.40, a licensed fountain
device retailer as authorized by R.C. § 3743.27, a person as authorized by R.C.
§§ 3743.44 and 3743.45, or a licensed exhibitor of fireworks as authorized by
R.C. §§ 3743.50 to 3743.55, or as authorized by any municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to any of these statutes, and except as provided in
R.C. § 3743.80 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (H), R.C. §§ 3743.45 and 3743.80 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and except for licensed
exhibitors of fireworks authorized to conduct a fireworks exhibition pursuant
to R.C. §§ 3743.50 through 3743.55 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, no person shall discharge, ignite, or explode any fireworks in this
municipality.
   (C)   No person shall use in a theater or public hall what is technically
known as fireworks showers, or a mixture containing potassium chlorate and
sulphur.
   (D)   No person shall sell fireworks of any kind to a person under 18 years
of age. No person under 18 years of age shall enter a fireworks sales showroom
unless that person is accompanied by a parent, legal guardian, or other
responsible adult. No person under 18 years of age shall touch or possess
fireworks on a licensed premises without the consent of the licensee. A
licensee may eject any person from a licensed premises that is in any way
disruptive to the safe operation of the premises.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 3743.44, no person, other than
a licensed manufacturer, licensed wholesaler, licensed exhibitor, or shipping
permit holder shall possess 1.3G fireworks in this municipality.
   (F)   No person shall negligently discharge, ignite, or explode fireworks
while in possession or control of, or under the influence of, any intoxicating
liquor, beer, or controlled substance.
   (G)   No person shall negligently discharge, ignite, or explode fireworks on
the property of another person without that person's permission to use
fireworks on that property.
(R.C. § 3743.65(A) - (E), (G), (H)) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
Felony offense for disabling a fire suppression system, see R.C. § 3743.65(F)
§ 91.03 PERMIT TO USE FIREWORKS.
   (A)   An exhibitor of fireworks licensed under R.C. §§ 3743.50 through
3743.55 who wishes to conduct a public fireworks exhibition shall apply for
approval to conduct the exhibition to the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer
and to the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the
designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
having jurisdiction over the premises.
   (B)   The approval required by division (A) of this section shall be
evidenced by the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and by the Police Chief
or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police
Chief or similar chief law enforcement officer, signing a permit for the
exhibition. Any exhibitor of fireworks who wishes to conduct a public fireworks
exhibition may obtain a copy of the form from the State Fire Marshal or, if
available, from the Fire Chief, a fire prevention officer, the Police Chief or
other similar chief law enforcement officer, or a designee of the Police Chief
or other similar chief law enforcement officer.
   (C)   Before a permit is signed and issued to a licensed exhibitor of
fireworks, the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer, in consultation with the
Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the designee of
the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, shall inspect
the premises on which the exhibition will take place and shall determine that,
in fact, the applicant for the permit is a licensed exhibitor of fireworks.
Each applicant shall show his or her license as an exhibitor of fireworks to
the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer.
   (D)   The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and the Police Chief or
other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police
Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, shall give approval to
conduct a public fireworks exhibition only if satisfied, based on the
inspection, that the premises on which the exhibition will be conducted allow
the exhibitor to comply with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal
pursuant to R.C. § 3743.53(B) and (E) and that the applicant is, in fact, a
licensed exhibitor of fireworks. The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer, in
consultation with the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement
officer or with the designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, may inspect the premises immediately prior to the
exhibition to determine if the exhibitor has complied with the rules, and may
revoke a permit for noncompliance with the rules.
   (E)   If the Legislative Authority has prescribed a fee for the issuance of
a permit for a public fireworks exhibition, the Fire Chief or fire prevention
officer and Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or
their designee, shall not issue a permit until the exhibitor pays the requisite
fee.
   (F)   Each exhibitor shall provide an indemnity bond in the amount of at
least one million dollars with surety satisfactory to the Fire Chief or fire
prevention officer and to the Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief
law enforcement officer, conditioned for the payment of all final judgments
that may be rendered against the exhibitor on account of injury, death, or loss
to person or property emanating from the fireworks exhibitor, or proof of
insurance coverage of at least one million dollars for liability arising from
injury, death, or loss of persons or property emanating from the fireworks
exhibition. The Legislative Authority may require the exhibitor to provide an
indemnity bond or proof of insurance coverage in amounts greater than those
required by this division. The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and Police
Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or their designee, shall
not issue a permit until the exhibitor provides the bond or proof of the
insurance coverage required by this division or by the Legislative Authority.
   (G)   Each permit for a fireworks exhibition issued by the Fire Chief or
fire prevention officer and by the Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief
law enforcement officer, shall contain a distinct number, designate the
municipality, and identify the certified fire safety inspector, Fire Chief, or
fire prevention officer who will be present before, during and after the
exhibition, where appropriate. A copy of each permit issued shall be forwarded
by the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and by the Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, or designee of the Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, issuing it to the State Fire Marshal. A
permit is not transferable or assignable.
   (H)   The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, or designee of the Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, shall keep a record of issued permits
for fireworks exhibitions. In this list, the Fire Chief, fire prevention
officer, Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or
designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
shall list the name of the exhibitor, his or her license number, the premises
on which the exhibition will be conducted, the date and time of the exhibition,
and the number and political subdivision designation of the permit issued to
the exhibitor for the exhibition.
   (I)   The Legislative Authority shall require that a certified fire safety
inspector, Fire Chief or fire prevention officer be present before, during and
after the exhibition, and shall require the certified fire safety inspector,
Fire Chief or fire prevention officer to inspect the premises where the
exhibition is to take place and determine whether the exhibition is in
compliance with this chapter and R.C. Chapter 3743.
(R.C. § 3743.54(B) - (F)) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
Notice of fireworks incident, see R.C. § 3743.541
§ 91.04 MANUFACTURING OR WHOLESALE SALE WITHOUT A LICENSE; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No licensed manufacturer or licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall
knowingly fail to comply with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.05 and 3743.18 or the requirements of R.C. §§ 3743.06
and 3743.19.
   (B)   No licensed manufacturer or licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall
fail to maintain complete inventory, wholesale sale and retail records as
required by R.C. §§ 3743.07 and 3743.20, or to permit an inspection of these
records or the premises of a fireworks plant or the wholesaler pursuant to R.C.
§§ 3743.08 and 3743.21.
   (C)   No licensed manufacturer or licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall
fail to comply with an order of the State Fire Marshal issued pursuant to R.C.
§§ 3743.01(B)(1) and 3743.21(B)(1) within the specified period of time.
   (D)   No licensed manufacturer or licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall
fail to comply with an order of the State Fire Marshal issued pursuant to R.C.
§§ 3743.08(B)(2) and 3743.21(B)(2) until the nonconformities are eliminated,
corrected or otherwise remedied or the 72 hour period specified in those
divisions has expired, whichever occurs first.
   (E)   No person shall smoke or shall carry a pipe, cigarette, or cigar, or a
match, lighter, other flame- producing item, or open flame on, or shall carry a
concealed source of ignition into, the premises of a fireworks plant or on the
premises of a wholesaler of fireworks, except as smoking is authorized in
specified lunchrooms or restrooms by a manufacturer or wholesaler pursuant to
R.C. § 3743.06(C) or R.C. § 3743.19(D).
   (F)   No person shall have possession or control of, or be under the
influence of, any intoxicating liquor, beer, or controlled substance while on
the premises of the fireworks plant or on the premises of a wholesaler of
fireworks.
(R.C. §§ 3743.60(E) - (J), 3743.61(E) - (J)) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
Felony provisions, see R.C. §§ 3743.60(A) through (D) and 3743.61(A) through
(D)
§ 91.05 PURCHASERS TO COMPLY WITH LAW; UNAUTHORIZED PURCHASES.
   (A)   No person who purchases fireworks in this municipality shall obtain
possession of the fireworks in this municipality unless the person complies
with R.C. §§ 3743.44 to 3743.46.
   (B)   Except for the purchase of 1.4G fireworks made under R.C. § 3743.45,
no person who resides in another state and who purchases fireworks in this
state shall obtain possession of fireworks in this state other than from a
licensed manufacturer or wholesaler, or fail, when transporting 1.3G fireworks,
to transport them directly out of this state within 72 hours after the time of
their purchase.
   (C)   No person who purchases fireworks in this state under R.C. § 3743.45
shall give or sell to any other person in this municipality fireworks that the
person has acquired in this state.
(R.C. § 3743.63) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 EXHIBITION WITHOUT A LICENSE; PROHIBITIONS FOR EXHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall fail to comply with the
applicable requirements of the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant
to R.C. § 3743.53(B) and (E) or to comply with R.C. § 3743.53(C) and (D).
   (B)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall conduct a fireworks
exhibition unless a permit has been secured for the exhibition pursuant to R.C.
§ 3743.54 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or if a permit so
secured is revoked by a Fire Chief or fire prevention officer, in consultation
with a Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or with a
designee of a Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
pursuant to those sections.
   (C)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall acquire fireworks for use at
a fireworks exhibition other than in accordance with R.C. §§ 3743.54 and
3743.55, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks or other person associated with the
conduct of a fireworks exhibition shall have possession or control of, or be
under the influence of, any intoxicating liquor, beer, or controlled substance
while on the premises on which the exhibition is being conducted.
   (E)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall permit an employee to assist
the licensed exhibitor in conducting fireworks exhibitions unless the employee
is registered with the State Fire Marshal under R.C. § 3743.56.
(R.C. § 3743.64(C) - (G)) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
Felony provisions, see R.C. § 3743.64(A), (B), and (H)
Notice of fireworks incident, see R.C. § 3743.541
§ 91.07 UNAUTHORIZED TRANSPORTATION OR SHIPPING.
   (A)   No person shall transport fireworks in this municipality except in
accordance with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant to R.C. §
3743.58.
   (B)   As used in this division, FIREWORKS includes only 1.3G and 1.4G
fireworks. No person shall ship fireworks into this municipality by mail,
parcel post, or common carrier unless the person possesses a valid shipping
permit issued under R.C. § 3743.40, and the fireworks are shipped directly to
the holder of a license issued under R.C. § 3743.03, 3743.16 or 3743.51.
   (C)   No person shall ship fireworks within this municipality by mail,
parcel post, or common carrier unless the fireworks are shipped directly to the
holder of a license issued under R.C. § 3743.01, 3743.16 or 3743.51.
(R.C. § 3743.66) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter does not apply to the following:
   (A)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage, or use in
emergency situations of pyrotechnic signaling devices and distress signals for
marine, aviation, or highway use;
   (B)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
fusees, torpedoes, or other signals necessary for the safe operation of
railroads;
   (C)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
blank cartridges in connection with theaters or shows, or in connection with
athletics as signals for ceremonial purposes;
   (D)   The manufacture for, the transportation, storage, possession or use
by, or the sale to the armed forces of the United States and the militia of
this state, as recognized by the Adjutant General of Ohio, of pyrotechnic
devices;
   (E)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other devices in which paper or plastic
caps containing 0.25 grains or less of explosive material are used, provided
that they are constructed so that a hand cannot come into contact with a cap
when it is in place for explosion, or apply to the manufacture, sale,
possession, transportation, storage or use of those caps;
   (F)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
novelties and trick noisemakers, auto burglar alarms, or model rockets and
model rocket motors designed, sold, and used for the purpose of propelling
recoverable aero models;
   (G)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
wire sparklers.
   (H)   The conduct of radio-controlled special effect exhibitions that use an
explosive black powder charge of not more than one-quarter pound per charge,
and that are not connected in any manner to propellant charges; provided, that
the exhibition complies with all of the following:
      (1)   No explosive aerial display is conducted in the exhibition;
      (2)   The exhibition is separated from spectators by not less than 200
feet;
      (3)   The person conducting the exhibition complies with regulations of
the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms of the United States Department of
the Treasury and the United States Department of Transportation with respect to
the storage and transport of the explosive black powder used in the exhibition.
(R.C. § 3743.80)
§ 91.09 ARREST OF OFFENDER; SEIZURE AND FORFEITURE OF FIREWORKS; DISTRIBUTION
OF FINES.
   (A)   The Fire Marshal, an assistant fire marshal, or a certified fire
safety inspector may arrest, or may cause the arrest of, any person whom he or
she finds in the act of violating, or who he or she has reasonable cause to
believe has violated, any provision of this subchapter. Any arrest shall be
made in accordance with statutory and constitutional provisions governing
arrests by law enforcement officers.
   (B)   If the Fire Marshal, an assistant fire marshal, or certified fire
safety inspector has probable cause to believe that fireworks are being
manufactured, sold, possessed, transported, or used in violation of this
subchapter, he or she may seize the fireworks. Any seizure of fireworks shall
be made in accordance with statutory and constitutional provisions governing
searches and seizures by law enforcement officers. The Fire Marshal’s office or
certified fire safety inspector’s office shall impound at the site or safely
keep seized fireworks pending the time they are no longer needed as evidence. A
sample of the seized fireworks is sufficient for evidentiary purposes. The
remainder of the seized fireworks may be disposed of pursuant to an order from
a court of competent jurisdiction after notice and a hearing.
   (C)   Fireworks manufactured, sold, possessed, transported, or used in
violation of this subchapter shall be forfeited by the offender. The Fire
Marshal’s office or certified fire safety inspector’s office shall dispose of
seized fireworks pursuant to the procedures specified in R.C. §§ 2981.11 to
2981.13 for the disposal of forfeited property by law enforcement agencies, and
the Fire Marshal or that office is not liable for claims for the loss of or
damages to the seized fireworks.
   (D)   This section does not affect the authority of peace officers, as
defined in R.C. § 2935.01, to make arrests for violations of this subchapter or
to seize fireworks manufactured, sold, possessed, transported, or used in
violation of this subchapter.
   (E)   Any fines imposed for a violation of this subchapter relating to the
sale, purchase, possession, or discharge of fireworks shall be distributed as
set forth in R.C. § 3743.68(D).
(R.C. § 3743.68)
§ 91.10 SAFETY REQUIREMENTS FOR FIREWORKS SHOWROOM STRUCTURES.
   (A)   (1)   Except as described in division (A)(2) of this section, all
retail sales of 1.4G fireworks by a licensed manufacturer or wholesaler shall
only occur from an approved retail sales showroom on a licensed premises or
from a representative sample showroom as described in this section on a
licensed premises. For the purposes of this section, a retail sale includes the
transfer of the possession of the 1.4G fireworks from the licensed manufacturer
or wholesaler to the purchaser of the fireworks.
      (2)   Sales of 1.4G fireworks to a licensed exhibitor for a properly
permitted exhibition shall occur in accordance with the provisions of the Ohio
Revised Code and rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal under R.C. Chapter
119. Such rules shall specify, at a minimum, that the licensed exhibitor holds
a license under R.C. § 3743.51, that the exhibitor possesses a valid exhibition
permit issued in accordance with R.C. § 3743.54, and that the fireworks shipped
are to be used at the specifically permitted exhibition.
   (B)   All wholesale sales of fireworks by a licensed manufacturer or
wholesaler shall only occur from a licensed premises to persons who intend to
resell the fireworks purchased at wholesale. A wholesale sale by a licensed
manufacturer or wholesaler may occur as follows:
      (1)   The direct sale and shipment of fireworks to a person outside of
this state;
      (2)   From an approved retail sales showroom as described in this
section;
      (3)   From a representative sample showroom as described in this section;
      (4)   By delivery of wholesale fireworks to a purchaser at a licensed
premises outside of a structure or building on that premises. All other
portions of the wholesale sales transaction may occur at any location on a
licensed premises.
      (5)   Any other method as described in rules adopted by the Fire Marshal
under R.C. Chapter 119.
   (C)   (1)   A licensed manufacturer or wholesaler shall only sell 1.4G
fireworks from a representative sample showroom or a retail sales showroom.
Each licensed premises shall only contain one sales structure.
      (2)   A representative sample showroom shall consist of a structure
constructed and maintained in accordance with the Nonresidential Building Code
adopted under R.C. Chapter 3781 and the Fire Code adopted under R.C. § 3737.82
for a use and occupancy group that permits mercantile sales. A representative
sample showroom shall not contain any pyrotechnics, pyrotechnic materials,
fireworks, explosives, explosive materials, or any similar hazardous materials
or substances. A representative sample showroom shall be used only for the
public viewing of fireworks product representations, including paper materials,
packaging materials, catalogs, photographs, or other similar product
depictions. The delivery of product to a purchaser of fireworks at a licensed
premises that has a representative sample structure shall not occur inside any
structure on a licensed premises. Such product delivery shall occur on the
licensed premises in a manner prescribed by rules adopted by the State Fire
Marshal pursuant to R.C. Chapter 119.
      (3)   If a manufacturer or wholesaler elects to conduct sales from a
retail sales showroom, the showroom structures, to which the public may have
any access and in which employees are required to work, on all licensed
premises, shall comply with the following safety requirements:
         (a)   A fireworks showroom that is constructed or upon which expansion
is undertaken on and after June 30, 1997, shall be equipped with interlinked
fire detection, fire suppression, smoke exhaust, and smoke evacuation systems
that are approved by the Superintendent of Industrial Compliance in the
Department of Commerce.
         (b)   1.   A fireworks showroom that first begins to operate on or
after June 30, 1997, or that resumes operations at any time after a period of
inactive status of licensure greater than one year, and to which the public has
access for retail purposes shall not exceed 7,500 square feet in floor area.
            2.   A fireworks showroom that, through construction of a new
showroom, expansion of an existing showroom, or similar means, first exceeds
5,000 square feet, to which the public has access for retail purposes, after
February 7, 2022, shall be equipped with a sprinkler system that meets the
criteria for sprinkler systems in extra hazard (group 2) occupancies under
"NFPA 13, Standard for the Installation of Sprinkler Systems (2019 Edition)".
            3.   Notwithstanding division (D) of this section, the State Fire
Marshal may provide a variance to the requirements of division (C)(3)(b)2. of
this section pursuant to R.C. § 3743.59 for a sprinkler system that matches or
exceeds the degree of safety provided by a sprinkler system that meets the
criteria for sprinkler systems in extra hazard (group 2) occupancies under
"NFPA 13, Standard for the Installation of Sprinkler Systems (2019 Edition)".
         (c)   A newly constructed or an existing fireworks showroom structure
that exists on September 23, 2008, but that, on or after September 23, 2008, is
altered or added to in a manner requiring the submission of plans, drawings,
specifications, or data pursuant to R.C. § 3791.04, shall comply with a graphic
floor plan layout that is approved by the State Fire Marshal and Superintendent
of Industrial Compliance showing width of aisles, parallel arrangement of
aisles to exits, number of exits per wall, maximum occupancy load, evacuation
plan for occupants, height of storage or display of merchandise, and other
information as may be required by the State Fire Marshal and Superintendent of
Industrial Compliance.
         (d)   A fireworks showroom structure that exists on June 30, 1997,
shall be in compliance on or after June 30, 1997, with floor plans showing
occupancy load limits and internal circulation and egress patterns that are
approved by the State Fire Marshal and Superintendent of Industrial Compliance,
and that are submitted under seal as required by R.C. § 3791.04.
   (D)   The safety requirements established in division (C) of this section
are not subject to any variance, waiver, or exclusion pursuant to this chapter
or any applicable building code.
(R.C. § 3743.25) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.11 STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES.
   It shall be unlawful to store at any time within the municipality a quantity
of gunpowder or other similar explosive weighing in excess of 100 pounds.
Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
Illegal manufacture or processing of explosives, felony provisions, see R.C. §
2923.17
§ 91.12 BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the municipality without
making application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the Mayor or other
proper municipal officer. The Mayor or other proper municipal officer before
granting such permit may require the applicant to provide a bond to indemnify
the municipality and all other persons against injury or damages which might
result from the proposed blasting.
Penalty, see §
91.99
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 91.30 REMOVAL OF FLAMMABLE MATERIALS OR OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Any flammable or combustible materials not arranged or stored in such a
manner as to afford reasonable safety against the danger of fire, or any matter
stored or arranged in such a manner as to impede or prevent access to, or exit
from, any premises in case of fire, shall be ordered by the Fire Chief to be
removed or rearranged in such manner as to eliminate any fire hazard. The order
shall be in writing and delivered to the owner, lessee, or occupant of the
premises.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.31 PROTECTIVE APPLIANCES.
   If the Fire Chief finds upon inspection that the appliances for protection
against fire are wholly wanting or are inadequate in number, condition, size,
arrangement, or efficiency for the reasonable protection of the premises
against fire, he or she shall cause an order in writing to be delivered to the
owner, lessee, or occupant requiring the installation, replacement, or repair
of appliances adequate for the reasonable protection of the premises in case of
fire.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.32 COMPLIANCE WITH ORDER.
   An order to correct the hazardous conditions specified in either §§
91.30 or
91.31 shall be directed to the owner, lessee, or occupant of the premises,
building, or structure, or to the person in control of the articles, material,
goods, wares, or merchandise, or to the owner thereof, as the circumstances may
require. It is made the duty of the owner, lessee, or occupant of the premises,
building, or structure, and of the person in control of such articles,
materials, goods, wares, and merchandise, or the owner thereof, to comply with
the order with all reasonable dispatch and diligence.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.33 WASTE RECEPTACLES.
   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior, or any material of a
similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any other
portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall be
provided for such hazardous materials.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.34 HOTEL TO HAVE FIRE WARNING DEVICE PRODUCING VISIBLE SIGNAL.
   (A)   Every hotel shall have available at least one operational single
station automatic fire warning device approved by the Fire Chief that produces
a visible warning signal when activated by every product of combustion. The
device, at the discretion of the owner, may also be activated by an early
warning fire protection system. Hotels having fewer than 75 rooms shall have at
least one warning device available for its guests. Hotels having more than 75
rooms shall have available for its guests one device for every group of 75
rooms. Upon the request of a guest, such a device, if available, shall be
installed in the guest’s room.
   (B)   As used in this section, HOTEL means every establishment kept, used,
maintained, advertised, or held out to the public to be a place where sleeping
accommodations are offered to guests in which five or more rooms are used for
accommodation of such guests, whether the rooms are in one or several
structures, except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 5739.091.
(R.C. §§ 3781.107, 5739.01(M))
   (C)   Whoever violates the provisions of this section shall be fined not
more than $1,000.
(R.C. §§ 3791.02, 3791.03)
§ 91.35 FIRE SUPPRESSION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Every building constructed in this municipality with floors used for
human occupancy located more than 75 feet in height above the lower level of
fire department vehicle access shall have a fire suppression system installed
and in operation in conformity with the rules of the state Board of Building
Standards adopted pursuant to R.C. § 3781.10.
   (B)   As used in this section:
      FIRE SUPPRESSION SYSTEM. Means a system that includes devices and
equipment to detect a fire, actuates an alarm, and suppress or control a fire.
      HUMAN OCCUPANCY. Does not include floors of buildings where occupancy by
humans is limited to ingress, egress, and limited access for maintenance and
repair.
(R.C. § 3781.108(A), (B))
   (C)   Whoever violates the provisions of this section shall be fined not
more than $1,000.
(R.C. §§ 3791.02, 3791.03)
§ 91.36 VIOLATIONS OF STATE FIRE CODE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly violate any provision of the State Fire Code
or any order made pursuant to it.
(R.C. § 3737.51(A))
   (B)   Except as a violation of R.C. § 2923.17, regarding the felonies of
unlawful possession of a dangerous ordnance and illegal manufacture or
processing of explosives, involves subject matter covered by the State Fire
Code, whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
(R.C. § 3737.99(B))
Statutory reference:
   Fire Code violations, see R.C. §§ 3737.41 et seq.
   Ohio Fire Code, see O.A.C. Chapter 1301:7-7
§ 91.37 POSTING ARSON NOTICES IN HOTELS, MOTELS AND OTHER PLACES.
   (A)   The owner, operator or lessee of any hotel, motel or transient
residential building shall post the provisions of R.C. §§ 2909.02 and 2909.03,
regarding aggravated arson and arson, in a conspicuous place in each room
occupied by guests in such building. The owner, operator or lessee of any
nontransient residential building, institution, school or place of assembly
shall post the provisions of such sections in conspicuous places upon such
premises. No person shall fail to comply with this section.
(R.C. § 3737.61)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3737.99(C))
§ 91.38 NEGLIGENT BURNING.
   (A)   No person shall set, kindle, or cause to be set or kindled any fire
which, through his or her negligence, spreads beyond its immediate confines to
any structure, field or wooded lot.
(R.C. § 3737.62)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 3737.99(D))
Cross-reference:
   Arson, see § 131.02
§ 91.39 SPREADING ALARM OF UNFRIENDLY FIRE.
   (A)   The owner, operator or lessee, an employee of any owner, operator or
lessee, an occupant, and any person in direct control of any building regulated
under the state building code, upon the discovery of an unfriendly fire, or
upon receiving information that there is an unfriendly fire upon the premises,
shall immediately, and with all reasonable dispatch and diligence, call or
otherwise notify the fire department concerning the fire, and shall spread an
alarm immediately to all occupants of the building.
   (B)   As used in this section, UNFRIENDLY FIRE means a fire of a destructive
nature as distinguished from a controlled fire intended for a beneficial
purpose.
(R.C. § 3737.63)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 3737.99(E))
§ 91.40 UNVENTED HEATERS.
   (A)   The use of a brazier, salamander, space heater, room heater, furnace,
water heater, or other burner or heater using wood, coal, coke, fuel oil,
kerosene, gasoline, natural gas, liquid petroleum gas or similar fuel, and
tending to give off carbon monoxide or other harmful gases must comply with the
following provisions;
      (1)   When used in living quarters, or in any enclosed building or space
in which persons are usually present, shall be used with a flue or vent so
designed, installed, and maintained as to vent the products of combustion
outdoors; except in storage, factory, or industrial buildings which are
provided with sufficient ventilation to avoid the danger of carbon monoxide
poisoning.
      (2)   When used as a portable or temporary burner or heater at a
construction site, or in a warehouse, shed, or structure in which persons are
temporarily present, shall be vented as provided in division (A)(1) or used
with sufficient ventilation to avoid the danger of carbon monoxide poisoning.
   (B)   This section does not apply to domestic ranges, laundry stoves, gas
logs installed in a fireplace with an adequate flue, or hot plates, unless the
same are used as space or room heaters.
   (C)   No person shall negligently use, or, being the owner, person in
charge, or occupant of premises, negligently permit the use of a burner or
heater in violation of the standards for venting and ventilation provided in
this section.
   (D)   Division (A) above does not apply to any kerosene-fired space or room
heater that is equipped with an automatic extinguishing tip-over device, or to
any natural gas-fired or liquid petroleum gas-fired space or room heater that
is equipped with an oxygen depletion safety shut-off system, and that has its
fuel piped from a source outside the building in which it is located, that are
approved by an authoritative source recognized by the State Fire Marshal in the
State Fire Code adopted by him or her under R.C. § 3737.82.
   (E)   The State Fire Marshal may make rules to ensure the safe use of
unvented kerosene, natural gas, or liquid petroleum gas heaters exempted from
division (A) above when used in assembly buildings, business buildings, high
hazard buildings, institutional buildings, mercantile buildings, and type R-
I and R-II residential buildings, as these groups of buildings are defined in
rules adopted by the Board of Building Standards under R.C. § 3781.10. No
person shall negligently use, or, being the owner, person in charge or occupant
of premises, negligently permit the use of a heater in violation of any rules
adopted under this division.
   (F)   The State Fire Marshal may make rules prescribing standards for
written instructions containing ventilation requirements and warning of any
potential fire hazards that may occur in using a kerosene, natural gas, or
liquid petroleum gas heater. No person shall sell or offer for sale any
kerosene, natural gas, or liquid petroleum gas heater unless the manufacturer
provides with the heater written instructions that comply with any rules
adopted under this division.
   (G)   No product labeled as a fuel additive for kerosene heaters and having
a flash point below 100°F or 37.8°C shall be sold, offered for sale, or used in
any kerosene space heater.
   (H)   No device that prohibits any safety feature on a kerosene, natural
gas, or liquid petroleum gas space heater from operating shall be sold, offered
for sale, or used in connection with any kerosene, natural gas, or liquid
petroleum gas space heater.
   (I)   No person shall sell or offer for sale any kerosene-fired, natural
gas, or liquid petroleum gas- fired heater that is not exempt from division (A)
above, unless it is marked conspicuously by the manufacturer on the container
with the phrase “Not Approved For Home Use”.
   (J)   No person shall use a cabinet-type, liquid petroleum gas-fired heater
having a fuel source within the heater, inside any building, except as
permitted by the State Fire Marshal in the State Fire Code adopted by him or
her under R.C. § 3737.82.
(R.C. § 3701.82)
   (K)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 3701.99(B))
OPEN BURNING
§ 91.55 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AGRICULTURAL WASTE. Any waste material generated by crop, horticultural,
or livestock production practices, and includes such items as woody debris and
plant matter from stream flooding, bags, cartons, structural materials, and
landscape wastes that are generated in agricultural activities, but does not
include land clearing waste; buildings (including dismantled/fallen barns);
garbage; dead animals; animal waste; motor vehicles and parts thereof; nor
economic poisons and containers thereof, unless the manufacturer has identified
open burning as a safe disposal procedure.
      AIR CURTAIN BURNER. An engineered apparatus consisting of a motorized
high-velocity fan and an air distribution system designed to aid in the
efficient combustion of materials placed in a manufactured steel structure and
for which a permit-to-install has been obtained as required in O.A.C. Chapter
3745-31 and a permit-to-operate has been obtained as required in O.A.C. Chapter
3745-77.
      AIR CURTAIN DESTRUCTOR. An engineered apparatus consisting of a motorized
high- velocity fan and an air distribution system designed to aid in the
efficient combustion of materials placed in an adjacent pit. An air curtain
burner may be used in place of an air curtain destructor, but an air curtain
destructor may not be used in place of an air curtain burner.
      BUILDING MATERIALS. Those materials resulting from the alteration,
construction, destruction, rehabilitation, or repair of any human-made physical
structure, including, without limitation, houses, buildings, industrial or
commercial facilities, or roadways.
      ECONOMIC POISONS. Include but are not restricted to pesticides such as
insecticides, fungicides, rodenticides, miticides, nematocides and fumigants;
herbicides; seed disinfectants; and defoliants.
      EMERGENCY BURNING. The burning of clean wood waste or deceased animals
caused by a natural disaster or an uncontrolled event such as the following:
         (a)   A tornado.
         (b)   High winds.
         (c)   An earthquake.
         (d)   An explosion.
         (e)   A flood.
         (f)   A hail storm, a rain storm, or an ice storm.
      GARBAGE. Any waste material resulting from the handling, processing,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food or food products.
      INHABITED BUILDING. Any inhabited private dwelling house and any public
structure which may be used as a place of resort, assembly, education,
entertainment, lodging, trade, manufacture, repair, storage, traffic, or
occupancy by the public. Examples would include, but are not limited to,
highway rest stops, restaurants, motels, hotels and gas stations.
      LAND CLEARING WASTE. Plant waste material which is removed from land,
including plant waste material removed from stream banks during projects
involving more than one property owner, for the purpose of rendering the land
useful for residential, commercial, or industrial development. Land clearing
waste also includes the plant waste material generated during the clearing of
land for new agricultural development.
      LANDSCAPE WASTE. Any plant waste material, except garbage, including
trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds, leaves, grass,
shrubbery, yard trimmings, and crop residues.
      OHIO EPA. The Ohio Environmental Protection Agency Director or agencies
delegated authority by the Director of the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
pursuant to R.C. § 3704.03 or the Chief of any Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency District Office.
      OPEN BURNING. The burning of any materials wherein air contaminants
resulting from combustion are emitted directly into the ambient air without
passing through a stack or chimney. Open burning includes the burning of any
refuse or salvageable material in any device not subject to or designed
specifically to comply with the requirements of O.A.C. 3745-17-09 or O.A.C.
3745-17-10.
      RESIDENTIAL WASTE. Any waste material, including landscape waste,
generated on the property of a one-, two- or three-family residence as a result
of residential activities, but not including garbage, rubber, grease, asphalt,
liquid petroleum products, or plastics.
      RESTRICTED AREA. The area within the boundary of the municipality, plus a
zone extending 1,000 feet beyond the boundaries of a municipality having a
population of 1,000 to 10,000 persons and a zone extending one mile beyond any
municipality having a population of 10,000 persons or more according to the
latest federal census.
      UNRESTRICTED AREA. All areas outside the boundaries of a restricted area
as defined in this section.
   (B)   Referenced materials. This subchapter includes references to certain
matter or materials. The text of the referenced materials is not included in
the legislation contained in this subchapter. Information on the availability
of the referenced materials as well as the date of, and/or the particular
edition or version of the material is included in this section. For materials
subject to change, only the specific versions specified in this section are
referenced. Material is referenced as it exists on the effective date of this
section. Except for subsequent annual publication of existing (unmodified) Code
of Federal Regulation compilations, any amendment or revision to a referenced
document is not applicable unless and until this section has been amended to
specify the new dates.
      (1)   Availability. The referenced materials are available as follows:
         (a)   Clean Air Act. Information and copies may be obtained by writing
to: Superintendent of Documents, Attn: New Orders, PO Box 371954, Pittsburgh,
PA 15250-7954. The full text of the act as amended in 1990 is also available in
electronic format at www.epa.gov/oar/caa/. A copy of the act is also available
for inspection and use at most public libraries and the State Library of Ohio.
         (b)   Code of Federal Regulations (C.F.R.). Information and copies may
be obtained by writing to: Superintendent of Documents, Attn: New Orders, PO
Box 371954, Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954. The full text of the C.F.R. is also
available in electronic format at http://www.ecfr.gov. The C.F.R. compilations
are also available for inspection and use at most public libraries and the
State Library of Ohio.
         (c)   National Fire Protection Association. Information on the
National Fire Protection Association codes may be obtained by contacting the
Association at 1 Batterymarch Park, Quincy, Massachusetts 02169-7471, 617-770-
3000. Codes may be ordered at www.nfpa.org/catalog/home/index.asp. Copies of
the code exist or are available at most public libraries and the State Library
of Ohio.
      (2)   Referenced materials.
         (a)   40 C.F.R. § 60.2974: “Am I required to apply for and obtain a
title V operating permit for my air curtain incinerator that burns only wood
waste, clean lumber, and yard waste?” as published in the July 1, 2017 Code of
Federal Regulations.
         (b)   40 C.F.R. § 60.3069: “Am I required to apply for and obtain a
title V operating permit for my air curtain incinerator that burns only wood
waste, clean lumber, and yard waste?” as published in the July 1, 2017 Code of
Federal Regulations.
         (c)   NFPA publication 1403: “Standard on Live Fire Training
Evolutions, Chapter 4, Acquired Structures” published April 30, 2007.
         (d)   Section 129 of the Clean Air Act, contained in 42 U.S.C. § 7429:
“Solid waste combustion” published January 6, 2017 in Supplement IV of the 2012
Edition of the United States Code.
(O.A.C. § 3745-19-01)
§ 91.56 RELATIONS TO OTHER PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any provision in O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19, no open
burning shall be conducted in an area where an air alert, warning or emergency
under O.A.C. Chapter 3745-25 is in effect.
   (B)   No provisions of O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19 permitting open burning, and
no permission to open burn granted by the Ohio EPA, shall exempt any person
from compliance with any section of the Ohio Revised Code, or any regulation of
any state department, or any local ordinance or regulation dealing with open
burning.
(O.A.C. § 3745-19-02) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.57 OPEN BURNING IN RESTRICTED AREAS.
   (A)   No person or property owner shall cause or allow open burning in a
restricted area except as provided in divisions (B) to (D) of this section or
in R.C. § 3704.11.
   (B)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes without
notification to or permission from the Ohio EPA:
      (1)   Heating tar, welding, acetylene torches, highway safety flares,
heating for warmth of outdoor workers and strikers, smudge pots and similar
occupational needs.
      (2)   Bonfires, campfires and outdoor fireplace equipment, whether for
cooking food for human consumption, pleasure, religious, ceremonial, warmth,
recreational, or similar purposes, if the following conditions are met:
         (a)   They are fueled with clean seasoned firewood, natural gas or
equivalent, or any clean burning fuel with emissions that are equivalent to or
lower than those created from the burning of seasoned firewood;
         (b)   They are not used for waste disposal purposes; and
         (c)   They shall have a total fuel area of three feet or less in
diameter and two feet or less in height.
      (3)   Disposal of hazardous explosive materials, military munitions or
explosive devices that require immediate action to prevent endangerment of
human health, public safety, property or the environment and that are excluded
from the requirement to obtain a hazardous waste permit pursuant to O.A.C.
3745-50-45(D)(1)(d).
      (4)   Recognized training in the use of fire extinguishers for commercial
or industrial fire prevention.
      (5)   Fires set at the direction of federal, state, and local law
enforcement officials for the purpose of destruction of cannabis sativa
(marijuana) plant vegetation, processed marijuana material and/or other drugs
seized by federal, state, or local law enforcement officials.
      (6)   Fires allowed by divisions (B)(1), (B)(2), and (B)(4) of this
section shall not be used for waste disposal purposes and shall be of minimum
size sufficient for their intended purpose; the fuel shall be chosen to
minimize the generation and emission of air contaminants.
   (C)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes with prior
notification to the Ohio EPA in accordance with §
91.58(B):
      (1)   Prevention or control of disease or pests, with written or oral
verification to the Ohio EPA from the Ohio Department of Health or local health
department, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, cooperative
extension service, Ohio Department of Agriculture, or U.S. Department of
Agriculture, that open burning is the only appropriate disposal method.
      (2)   Bonfires or campfires used for ceremonial purposes that do not meet
the requirements of division (B)(2) of this section, provided the following
conditions are met:
         (a)   They have a total fuel area no greater than five feet in
diameter by five feet in height and burn no longer than three hours;
         (b)   They are not used for waste disposal purposes; and
         (c)   They are fueled with clean seasoned firewood, natural gas or
equivalent, or any clean burning fuel with emissions that are equivalent to or
lower than those created from the burning of seasoned firewood.
      (3)   Disposal of agricultural waste generated on the premises if the
following conditions are observed:
         (a)   The fire is set only when atmospheric conditions will readily
dissipate contaminants;
         (b)   The fire does not create a visibility hazard on the roadways,
railroad tracks, or air fields;
         (c)   The fire is located at a point on the premises no less than
1,000 feet from any inhabited building not located on said premises;
         (d)   The wastes are stacked and dried to provide the best practicable
condition for efficient burning; and
         (e)   No materials are burned which contain rubber, grease, asphalt,
liquid petroleum products, plastics or building materials.
      (4)   Recognized horticultural, silvicultural (fores-try), range
management, prairie and grassland management, invasive species management, or
wildlife management practices, if all of the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The fire shall be performed within 180 days of submitting the
notification.
         (b)   The fire shall be performed when it is anticipated weather
conditions will minimize the dispersion of smoke near populated areas and the
smoke does not create a visibility hazard on roadways, railroad tracks, or air
fields. Smoke dispersion conditions shall be evaluated before, during, and
after the fire and actions taken to minimize smoke impacts.
         (c)   The person making the notification shall notify the local fire
department having jurisdiction over the burn area at least 24 hours before the
fire is anticipated to occur.
         (d)   The person making the notification shall provide reasonable
notification to populations potentially impacted by the smoke before the fire
occurs. Populations potentially impacted shall include, at a minimum, those
within one-quarter mile of the burn site. Reasonable notification shall include
one of the following:
            1.   Posting notice of intent to burn, including contact
information for the person making the notification and the anticipated date
that the fire will occur, within open view from a public roadway adjacent to
and outside of the property on which the fire will occur.
            2.   Posting a notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the
local community in which the fire will occur. The notice shall include, at a
minimum, the address of the property at which the fire will occur, contact
information for the person making the notification and the anticipated date
that the fire will occur.
            3.   Delivering written notice directly to residences and
businesses within a minimum of one-quarter mile of the burn site. Notices shall
include, at a minimum, the address of the property at which the fire will
occur, contact information for the person making the notification and the
anticipated date that the fire will occur.
         (e)   The person making the notification shall document information on
the weather, smoke conditions, any air quality concerns before, during, and
after the fire, the actual number of acres burned, the time the fire was
initially kindled, the time when active kindling ceased and the time at which
mop up activities ceased. The person making the notification shall maintain
this information for a minimum of one year from the date of the fire and shall
provide this information to the appropriate Ohio EPA district office or local
air agency within ten days upon request.
         (f)   Reasonable access to the burn site shall be provided to Ohio EPA
representatives at any time during the fire.
   (D)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes upon receipt
of written permission from the Ohio EPA, in accordance with §
91.58(A), provided that any conditions specified in the permission are
followed:
      (1)   Disposal of ignitable or explosive materials where the Ohio EPA
determines that there is no practical alternate method of disposal, excluding
those materials identified in division (B)(3) of this section;
      (2)   Instruction in methods of fire fighting or for research in the
control of fires as recognized by the State Fire Marshal Division of the Ohio
Department of Commerce and the guidelines set forth in the National Fire
Protection Association’s (NFPA) publication 1403, Standard on Live Fire
Training Evolutions, Chapter 4, Acquired Structures, provided that the
application required in §
91.58(A)(1) is submitted by the commercial or public entity responsible for the
instruction;
      (3)   In emergency or other extraordinary circumstances for any purpose
determined to be necessary by the Director and performed as identified in the
appendix to O.A.C. § 3745-19-03. If deemed necessary, the open burning may be
authorized with prior oral approval by the Director followed by the issuance of
a written permission to open burn within seven working days of the oral
approval;
      (4)   Fires or pyrotechnic effects, for purposes other than waste
disposal, set as part of commercial film-making or video production activities
for motion pictures and television.
(O.A.C. § 3745-19-03) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.58 PERMISSION AND NOTICE TO OPEN BURN.
   (A)   Permission.
      (1)   An application for permission to open burn shall be submitted in
writing to Ohio EPA. The applicant shall allow Ohio EPA at least ten working
days to review the permit. Applicant may proceed with burn upon receipt of
written permission from Ohio EPA. Saturday, Sunday, and legal holidays shall
not be considered working days. The application shall be in such form and
contain such information as required by the Ohio EPA.
      (2)   Except as provided in divisions (A)(6) and (A)(7) of this section,
such applications shall contain, as a minimum, the following information:
         (a)   The purpose of the proposed burning;
         (b)   The quantity or acreage and the nature of the materials to be
burned;
         (c)   The date or dates when such burning will take place;
         (d)   The location of the burning site, including a map showing
distances to residences, populated areas, roadways, air fields, and other
pertinent landmarks; and
         (e)   The methods or actions which will be taken to reduce the
emissions of air contaminants.
      (3)   Permission to open burn shall not be granted unless the applicant
demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Ohio EPA that open burning is necessary
to the public interest; will be conducted in a time, place, and manner as to
minimize the emission of air contaminants, when atmospheric conditions are
appropriate; and will have no serious detrimental effect upon adjacent
properties or the occupants thereof. The Ohio EPA may impose such conditions as
may be necessary to accomplish the purpose of O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (A)(6) of this section, permission
to open burn must be obtained for each specific project. In emergencies where
public health or environmental quality will be seriously threatened by delay
while written permission is sought, the fire may be set with oral permission of
the Ohio EPA.
      (5)   Violations of any of the conditions set forth by the Ohio EPA in
granting permission to open burn shall be grounds for revocation of such
permission and refusal to grant future permission, as well as for the
imposition of other sanctions provided by law.
      (6)   The Ohio Department of Commerce, Division of State Fire Marshal,
may request permission to open burn on an annual basis for the purpose of
training firefighters on pre-flashover conditions using the Ohio Fire Academy’s
mobile training laboratory at either the academy or at other training sites in
Ohio. The annual application required pursuant to division (A)(1) of this
section shall contain information as required in division (A)(2) of this
section, except the information required in divisions (A)(2)(c) and (A)(2)(d)
of this section need not be provided unless it is available at the time of
submittal of the application. The Academy shall contact the appropriate Ohio
EPA District Office or local air agency at least five working days before each
training session of the date or dates when the training session will take place
and its location. Saturday, Sunday, and legal holidays shall not be considered
a working day.
      (7)   For open burning defined under §
91.57(D)(2) and O.A.C. 3745-19-04(C)(2), permission to open burn shall not be
granted unless the applicant provides proof of written notice of intent to
demolish received by the appropriate Ohio EPA field office in accordance with
O.A.C. 3745-20-03.
   (B)   Notification.
      (1)   Notification shall be submitted in writing at least ten working
days before the fire is to be set. Saturday, Sunday, and legal holidays shall
not be considered a working day. It shall be in such form and contain such
information as shall be required by the Ohio EPA.
      (2)   Such notification shall inform the Ohio EPA regarding the
following:
         (a)   The purpose of the proposed burning;
         (b)   The nature and quantities of materials to be burned;
         (c)   The date or dates when such burning will take place; and
         (d)   The location of the burning site.
      (3)   The Ohio EPA, after receiving notification, may determine that the
open burning is not allowed under O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19 and the Ohio EPA shall
notify the applicant to this effect.
(O.A.C. § 3745-19-05) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another
penalty is not specifically provided shall be subject to the penalty as
provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of
this section, whoever violates any provisions of §§
91.01 through
91.08 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of R.C. § 3743.60(I) or R.C. § 3743.61(I), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, a violation of §
91.04(E) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates §
91.06(A) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition to any
other penalties that may be imposed on a licensed exhibitor of fireworks under
this division and unless the third sentence of this division applies, the
person’s license as an exhibitor of fireworks or as an assistant exhibitor of
fireworks shall be suspended, and the person is ineligible to apply for either
type of licence, for a period of five years. If the violation of §
91.06(A) results in serious physical harm to persons or serious physical harm
to property, the person’s license as an exhibitor of fireworks or as an
assistant exhibitor of fireworks shall be revoked, and that person is
ineligible to apply for a license as or to be licensed as an exhibitor of
fireworks or as an assistant exhibitor of fireworks in this state.
      (4)   Whoever violates §
91.02(F) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. Notwithstanding any
other provision of law to the contrary, a person may be convicted at the same
trial or proceeding of a violation of §
91.02(F) and a violation of R.C. § 2917.11(B), or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, that constitutes the basis of the charge of the violation
of §
91.02(F).
      (5)   Whoever violates §
91.04(G) or (H) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (6)   Whoever violates §
91.02(G) is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3743.99(C), (D), (F) - (H))
Statutory reference:
Civil penalties for violations of State Fire Code, see R.C. § 3737.51(B)
through (H)
CHAPTER 92: VILLAGE PARKS
Section
   
92.01   Regulations governing use of park
   
92.02   Regulations governing camping
   
92.03   Restrictions
   
92.04   Care, supervision and management of all public parks
   
92.05   Swimming prohibited in certain village-owned bodies of water
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 REGULATIONS GOVERNING USE OF PARK.
   The following regulations governing the use of the village parks shall be
adopted and posted in conspicuous places throughout the parks.
   (A)   Speed limit shall not exceed ten mph for all vehicles.
   (B)   Opening and closing times for all through vehicular traffic shall be
sun up and sun down respectively.
   (C)   Discharge of weapons on any portion of the village parks is
prohibited. WEAPONS shall be defined to include rifles, shot guns, pistols, air
guns and bows and arrows; provided, however, that the use of any of the
foregoing weapons shall be permitted upon application as provided in §
92.03.
   (D)   Dogs shall be permitted on leash only.
   (E)   Littering and dumping of trash is prohibited and all refuse shall be
placed in barrels.
   (F)   The killing, injuring or trapping of wild life and wanton destruction
of vegetation is prohibited.
   (G)   All vehicular traffic shall limited to roads, drives and parking
areas. Horseback riding shall be limited to riding trails and roads and other
posted areas.
   (H)   The sale of beer is prohibited in all parks, except as provided in §
93.03.
(Ord. 4-78, passed 5-16-1978; Ord. 6-79, passed 4-17-1979; Ord. 1-82, passed 2-
2-1982; Ord. 10-87, passed 5-5-1987) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 REGULATIONS GOVERNING CAMPING.
   The following regulations governing camping at the village parks shall be
adopted and posted in conspicuous places throughout the parks.
   (A)   Camping is allowed only by registering with and obtaining a permit
from the village. At least one permit is required for each camping unit or
organized group. Permits may be obtained from the Police Department of the
village.
   (B)   All camp sites are restricted to the cleared portions of the
designated areas (AA, A, B, C, D) on the park map, unless otherwise authorized
by the Mayor.
   (C)   Recreational vehicles with plumbing fixtures may not discharge any
liquid wastes onto the ground surface or into any open container or bucket
outside the body of the vehicle. All drains protruding from the vehicle must be
sealed or capped.
   (D)   All liquid wastes from camping activities must be disposed in the park
toilet privy vault.
   (E)   All animals allowed in the park with campers must be on leash or line
at all times and in the control of the owner. Animal feces must be removed from
the ground surface at camp sites daily and disposed as garbage.
   (F)   All solid wastes (cans, glass, paper, garbage, trash and the like)
must be deposited in trash barrels or containers provided. Camp sites must be
kept clean and orderly at all times.
(Ord. 4-78, passed 5-16-1978; Ord. 6-79, passed 4-17-1979; Ord. 10-87, passed
5-5-1987) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 RESTRICTIONS.
   Discharge of weapons as provided in §
92.01(C), and the sale of beer as provided in §
92.01(H) shall be permitted by organizations or groups receiving prior approval
from the Mayor and Chief of Police. The fee for the application shall be $25
which shall be credited to the Park Fund.
(Ord. 10-87, passed 5-5-1987)
§ 92.04 CARE, SUPERVISION AND MANAGEMENT OF ALL PUBLIC PARKS.
   The responsibility for the care, supervision and management of any and all
public parks, baths and other institutions owned or established by the village
shall be vested in the executive power of this village, namely, the Mayor of
the village who shall exercise this authority as provided in this section as
follows.
   (A)   Any and all parks or recreation facilities owned by the village shall
be operated and managed by the Mayor of the village by virtue of his or her
executive authority.
   (B)   The Mayor, with the advice and consent of the Village Council, shall
appoint, hire and otherwise designate any and all employees for such park or
recreational facilities. The Mayor shall also, with the advice and consent of
the Village Council, make such regulations that are deemed necessary and
prudent for the efficient operation and public use of park and recreation
facilities.
   (C)   Compensation, benefits and rules of employment for such employees
shall be established by the Council and shall be determined by the village’s
annual pay ordinance, the village policy and procedures manual and such other
regulations as deemed necessary by the Council.
   (D)   The Mayor may designate any other employee of the village or any other
department of the village to provide for services for the parks or recreation
facilities of the village.
   (E)   The Mayor may, with the advice and consent of Council, appoint a
person to act as his or her designee for any of the operations of the parks
upon such terms and conditions as the Council shall establish.
   (F)   Unless otherwise set forth herein, the care, supervision and
management of any and all public parks, baths and other institutions owned or
established by the village shall be exercised by the executive and legislative
authorities of the village, as provided by law.
   (G)   The Council of the village finds and determines that input from
interested citizens is essential in assisting with decisions made by village
elected officials in setting priorities, planning and determining the best uses
of park and recreation facilities. Therefore, there will be established, a Park
and Recreation Advisory Board as set forth herein.
      (1)   The Park and Recreation Advisory Board shall consist of five
electors of the village who shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and
consent of the Village Council for a term of four years. Suggested membership
should include representation by groups and organizations that utilize the
parks and recreation facilities on a regular basis. Examples of these groups
include the Bluffton Exempted School District, Bluffton Family Recreation and
the like.
      (2)   The Park and Recreation Advisory Board’s initial membership shall
be made up of two members appointed for two years and three members appointed
for four years, thereafter, all terms shall be for a term of four years.
      (3)   The Park and Recreation Advisory Board shall meet not less than
once per quarter of each year and shall be encouraged to meet at least one time
per month. All meetings of the Park and Recreation Advisory Board shall be
public meetings and governed by the Ohio Public Meetings Laws, being R.C. §
121.22.
      (4)   The Park and Recreation Advisory Board may make recommendations to
the village, submit plans and suggestions for rules and regulations, propose
expansion and uses for park and recreation facilities of the village and act as
a primary liaison between the village government and the citizens of the
village as to parks and recreation facilities.
(Ord. 19-07, passed 11-12-2007)
§ 92.05 SWIMMING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN VILLAGE-OWNED BODIES OF WATER.
   Swimming is hereby prohibited in all village owned bodies of water known as
Cobb Lake (National Quarry), Village Park Pond and Buckeye Lake.
(Ord. 10-91, passed 8-20-1991) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates the provisions of §§
92.01 through
92.03 shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $50 for each offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of §
92.05 shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than
$100.
(Ord. 4-78, passed 5-16-1978; Ord. 6-79, passed 4-17-1979; Ord. 10-87, passed
5-5-1987; Ord. 10-91, passed 8-20-1991)
CHAPTER 93: VILLAGE TREES
Section
   
93.01   Creation of Tree Commission
   
93.02   Terms of office
   
93.03   Compensation
   
93.04   Organization, officers, meeting
   
93.05   Definitions
   
93.06   Designation of species for street trees
   
93.07   Spacing of street trees
   
93.08   Distance of trees from curbs and sidewalks
   
93.09   Distance of trees from street corners and fire hydrants
   
93.10   Care of public trees
   
93.11   Care of trees on private property
   
93.12   Other prohibited acts as to trees
   
93.13   General duties of the Tree Commission
   
93.14   Appeal to Village Council
   
93.15   Village departments to consult with Commission
   
93.16   Improvement projects to streets, sidewalks and other public ways
   
93.17   Special circumstances
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 CREATION OF TREE COMMISSION.
   There is hereby established and created a tree commission for the village
which may be referred to as the Tree Commission. The said Commission shall
consist of no less than five members and no more than seven members being
citizens and electors of the village. Each member shall be appointed by the
Mayor of the village with the advise and consent of the Village Council and
shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor and Council. The Tree Commission for
the village shall be a public body and all meetings thereof shall be conducted
in accordance with the laws of the state regarding open meetings. The Mayor of
the village shall be an ex officio member of the Tree Commission. One member of
the Village Council shall serve as a nonvoting liaison to the Tree Commission.
Such liaison shall be appointed annually by the Mayor from the elected members
of Council.
(Ord. 08-19, passed 9-23-2019)
§ 93.02 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   The terms of each member of the Tree Commission shall be for three years.
Successor members shall be appointed at the end of term pursuant to §
93.01. In the event of a vacancy, the Mayor shall appoint, with the advice and
consent of the Village Council, a qualified person to serve the unexpired term
of that member. Notwithstanding the repealment of Ord. 07-03, the members of
the Tree Commission serving at the time of the enactment of Ord. 08-19 shall
continue in their offices for the remainder of their unexpired terms.
(Ord. 08-19, passed 9-23-2019)
§ 93.03 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Commission shall serve without compensation. The Mayor shall
not receive additional compensation for his or her service as ex officio member
and the member of Council appointed as liaison shall not receive additional
compensation for his or her service.
(Ord. 08-19, passed 9-23-2019)
§ 93.04 ORGANIZATION, OFFICERS, MEETING.
   (A)   The Tree Commission shall choose a Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson.
The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the Tree Commission, execute
all notices on behalf of the Commission, issue summonses on behalf of the
Commission and shall preside at any hearings of the Commission. In the
Chairperson’s absence, the Vice-Chairperson shall perform these duties. The
Tree Commission shall make its own rules and regulations and keep a journal of
its proceedings. A quorum will be required for the transaction of business, for
purposes of the Tree Commission and quorum shall exist when at least 15% of the
current members are in attendance.
   (B)   Actions of the Commission shall be upon motion made by a member,
seconded and passed by a simple majority of those members present at the time
of the vote. No vote shall be made by proxy and each member must vote upon each
question or motion presented unless there is a claim of personal conflict of
interest.
(Ord. 08-19, passed 9-23-2019)
§ 93.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK TREES. Trees on land owned, controlled or maintained by the village.
   PRIVATE TREES. Trees on land not owned, controlled or maintained by the
village.
   PUBLIC TREES. All street trees, park trees or other trees designated as
PUBLIC TREES by this chapter.
   STREET TREES. Trees on land within the rights-of-way of any village road,
street, avenue, alley or way within the village.
(Ord. 08-19, passed 9-23-2019)
§ 93.06 DESIGNATION OF SPECIES FOR STREET TREES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the Tree Commission to
designate the official street tree species that may be planted or remain as
street trees in the village. Such species shall be designated by list compiled
and published not less than annually by the Tree Commission. The planting or
maintaining of any other species than designated by the Tree Commission shall
be deemed a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   The Tree Commission may grant permission to plant another species of
tree in writing by majority affirmative vote of the Commission.
(Ord. 08-19, passed 9-23-2019) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 SPACING OF STREET TREES.
   (A)   Street trees shall be spaced in accordance with regulations
established by the Tree Commission. Any planting in violation of a regulation
of the Tree Commission shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   In establishing spacing of street trees, the Tree Commission shall
require at least the following minimum spacing:
      (1)   Small tree species, 15 feet of space between the small tree and any
other tree;
      (2)   Medium tree species, 25 feet of space between the medium tree and
any other tree; and
      (3)   Large tree species, 40 feet of space between the large tree and any
other tree.
   (C)   The Tree Commission may grant permission to plant at variance with its
regulations in writing by majority affirmative vote of the Commission.
(Ord. 08-19, passed 9-23-2019) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.08 DISTANCE OF TREES FROM CURBS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Street trees may be planted in any right-of-way of the village
including those areas between the curb or curb line of any street, alley or
public way and a sidewalk in accordance with the regulations established by the
Tree Commission. Any planting in violation of a regulation of the Tree
Commission shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   In establishing distance of trees from curbs and sidewalks for street
trees, the Tree Commission shall require at least the following minimums:
      (1)   Small tree species, two feet of space between the small tree and
both the curb or curb line and sidewalk (minimum four foot tree lawn);
      (2)   Medium tree species, three feet of space between the medium tree
and both the curb or curb line and sidewalk (minimum six-foot tree lawn); and
      (3)   Large tree species, four feet of space between the small tree and
both the curb or curb line and sidewalk (minimum eight-foot tree lawn).
   (C)   The Tree Commission may grant permission to plant at variance with its
regulations in writing by majority affirmative vote of the Commission.
(Ord. 08-19, passed 9-23-2019) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.09 DISTANCE OF TREES FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   The Tree Commission shall make no regulation nor allow or suffer any
street tree to be planted within ten linear feet of any fire hydrant.
   (B)   The Tree Commission shall make no regulation nor allow or suffer any
street tree to be planted within 35 linear feet of any street corner. Said
corner being measured from the point nearest intersecting curb or curb line of
any street, alley or public way.
(Ord. 08-19, passed 9-23-2019)
§ 93.10 CARE OF PUBLIC TREES.
   (A)   The Tree Commission shall be the conservator, and agent for the
village for the care of any public tree as defined in this chapter. The Tree
Commission shall, subject to this chapter, have the right to plant, maintain
and remove trees, plants and shrubs within the right-of-way of any street,
alley or public way of the village including, but not limited to, any other
public grounds.
   (B)   The Tree Commission shall have the right to cause to be removed all or
part of any tree that by reason of its condition or location is unsafe to
persons or property, interferes with any utility or public improvement, or
which is affected by any injurious fungus, insect or other pest.
   (C)   In executing its duty as conservator of the public trees of the
village and exercising the powers granted in this section, the Tree Commission
shall be guided by two overriding principles:
      (1)   Ensure public safety at all times; and
      (2)   The symmetry and beauty of public grounds and ways.
(Ord. 08-19, passed 9-23-2019)
§ 93.11 CARE OF TREES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Tree Commission shall, by written notice to the owner of private
property, cause said owner, or if the owner fails to do so within a reasonable
period of time, cause the village to prune any branch or branches of any tree
so that the branches do not obstruct the light from any street lamp, obstruct
the view of any traffic control device, street sign or directional marker,
obstruct any intersection of streets or public ways by not having a clear space
of at least eight feet above the surface of any street or public way.
   (B)   The Tree Commission shall, by written notice to the owner of private
property, cause said owner, or if the owner fails to do so within a reasonable
period of time, cause the village to remove any tree that is dead or diseased
on private property when such dead or diseased tree constitutes a danger to
public safety, or is infested with disease or insects that present a danger and
threat to other trees within the village.
   (C)   Should removal or care of a tree that is the responsibility of a
property owner be undertaken by the village due to the owner’s failure to
remedy the situation within a reasonable time, then any and all expenses
incurred by the village shall be assessed to the property owner and shall be
placed upon the real property tax duplicate according to law.
   (D)   Notice to the owners shall be as set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 08-19, passed 9-23-2019)
§ 93.12 OTHER PROHIBITED ACTS AS TO TREES.
   (A)   No person, other than recognized members of the Public Works
Department, shall prune, remove, top, disfigure, mutilate or damage any public
tree of the village without the express consent of the Tree Commission.
   (B)   No person shall attach or place any rope, wire, sign, poster, handbill
or other thing to any public tree of the village without the express consent of
the Tree Commission.
   (C)   No person shall place or discharge any gaseous, liquid or solid
substance which is harmful to trees upon any public tree, its roots or its
leaves of the village without the express consent of the Tree Commission.
   (D)   No person shall, after removing a public tree, fail to remove the
stump of that tree to a level below the surface of the surrounding ground and
backfill the area to an even grade.
   (E)   No person shall interfere, obstruct or delay the Tree Commission or
its agents in the performance of its functions under this chapter.
(Ord. 08-19, passed 9-23-2019) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.13 GENERAL DUTIES OF THE TREE COMMISSION.
   In addition to the duties and responsibilities set forth herein, the Tree
Commission shall do all of the following:
   (A)   Create, update, develop and administer a written plan for the care,
preservation, planting, replanting, removal, pruning and disposition of public
trees in the village and present such a plan or revisions thereof to the
Council of the village for its approval on or before March 1, of each year;
   (B)   Make investigations, reports and findings to the Village Council, the
Mayor or department heads as to any matter within its jurisdiction upon
request;
   (C)   Provide written notice to owners of private trees and notice to
adjoining landowners of public trees when the Tree Commission considers
planting, moving, replanting or removing any tree within its jurisdiction;
   (D)   Provide an opportunity to be heard at a public meeting of the Tree
Commission by the property owner, the public, and the village administration
when the Tree Commission considers planting, moving, replanting or removing any
tree within its jurisdiction. Notice of the date, time and place of this
hearing shall be provided in the notice to the owners not less than 20 days
prior to the meeting and a copy provided to the Village Administrator;
   (E)   Provide counsel, guidance and recommendations to the village
administration on any public work, street project or the like that may affect
any tree within the Tree Commission’s jurisdiction;
   (F)   Approve the tree plan for any new subdivision of the village; and
   (G)   Any notice issued by the Tree Commission shall be in substantially the
following form:
 
   BY THE TREE COMMISSION OF THE VILLAGE OF BLUFFTON, OHIO
DATE:
TO: [property owner or adjacent property owner]
   This is to advise that the Tree Commission of the Village of Bluffton, Ohio
has determined that a tree on [ ] public property adjacent to your property or
[ ] on your property is subject to action by the village as follows:
   You are advised that the Tree Commission will meet on __________ day of
__________, 20_____ at _____M. to consider this matter. You are invited to be
present at that time to express your views to the Commission.
 
(Ord. 08-19, passed 9-23-2019)
§ 93.14 APPEAL TO VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   (A)   Any person who, after hearing before the Tree Commission, disagrees
with the determination of the Tree Commission’s decision as to any issue shall
have a right to appeal to the Council of the village.
   (B)   Such appeal shall be perfected by delivering a written request for
appeal to the Clerk of Council within ten business days of the date of the Tree
Commission’s decision.
   (C)   Upon appeal, the Chairperson of the Tree Commission shall reduce to
writing, the decision of the Tree Commission and file the same with the Clerk
of Council within five business days of the perfection of the appeal.
   (D)   The matter will then be scheduled for a hearing before the Village
Council at a regularly scheduled meeting. The Fiscal Officer shall cause notice
of the date and time of the hearing to be sent to the property owner involved,
the Village Administration and the Chairperson of the Tree Commission.
   (E)   After a hearing and opportunity to be heard by the interested parties,
the Village Council shall vote on the question by motion. Said motion shall be
substantially in the following form: “Moved, that the decision of the Tree
Commission of the village shall be affirmed.”
   (F)   In order to affirm the actions of the Tree Commission, a majority vote
is necessary. If the motion fails to pass by a majority vote, the decision of
the Tree Commission shall be set aside and the Village Council shall then
determine the issue before it on appeal. Such decision of the Village Council
shall be final.
   (G)   In voting to affirm or overrule the decision of the Tree Commission,
the Council shall be guided by the same principles as the Tree Commission and
unless undue hardship is demonstrated, abuse of authority by the Commission is
evident or evidence is presented that the Tree Commission exceeded its
authority, the determination of the Tree Commission should be affirmed.
(Ord. 08-19, passed 9-23-2019)
§ 93.15 VILLAGE DEPARTMENTS TO CONSULT WITH COMMISSION.
   (A)   In order to complete its mandate, it is necessary that all village
officials, departments and employees coordinate their activities with the Tree
Commission where any activity of the village will impact public trees.
   (B)   Each department, official or employee of the village shall report to
the Tree Commission any activity undertaken that involves the pruning, cutting,
removal or potential removal of any public tree. No activity that affects any
public tree shall be commenced without reference to the Tree Commission and it
has issued its decision regarding the public tree in question. It shall be the
specific duty of any department head of the village to advise the Tree
Commission of any project or work that might affect a public tree at least 30
days prior to the commencement of any project or, if an emergency exists, as
soon as practicable.
   (C)   Only where there is an imminent threat to the safety of persons or
property may the administration take action regarding a public tree without the
consent of the Tree Commission.
(Ord. 08-19, passed 9-23-2019)
§ 93.16 IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS TO STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC WAYS.
   When the village undertakes any improvement project for roads, sidewalks and
public areas wherein a public tree is impacted, the Tree Commission shall be
advised of the project and make a report to the Council as to any possible
alternative measures that could be used to limit the impact to public trees.
Such a report shall be considered by the Council prior to approval of such
project.
(Ord. 08-19, passed 9-23-2019)
§ 93.17 SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES.
   Where public improvement or construction results in the need for removal of
public trees by the village and no alternative plan is available to keep the
public tree, the Tree Commission may recommend to Council, that a tree be
planted on private property, at public expense, as a replacement tree. Council
shall review each recommendation made by the Tree Commission and no expenditure
of funds for a tree under this section shall be made without the approval of
Council.
(Ord. 08-19, passed 9-23-2019)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed
$100 for each tree affected by the violation. In addition to any other penalty
imposed, a person found guilty of violation, shall provide restitution to the
village in an amount equal to the cost of a replacement tree.
(Ord. 08-19, passed 9-23-2019)
CHAPTER 94: VILLAGE CEMETERY
Section
Maple Grove Cemetery
   
94.01   Deed required
   
94.02   Care of cemetery
   
94.03   Flowers
   
94.04   Notice required
   
94.05   Bases and monuments
   
94.06   Foundations
   
94.07   Entry through gate
   
94.08   Automobile traffic
   
94.09   Rules and regulations adopted by reference
Indigent Burials
   
94.20   Purpose
   
94.21   Application of policy
   
94.22   Determining indigence
   
94.23   Determining legal residency
   
94.24   Burial policy
   
94.25   Limitations
 
   
94.99   Penalty
MAPLE GROVE CEMETERY
§ 94.01 DEED REQUIRED.
   No person shall be permitted to occupy a lot unless in possession of a deed
therefor.
   (A)   The caretaker is expressly charged with the duty of enforcing the
statutes enacted for the protection of cemeteries and he or she is required to
arrest and prosecute all persons violating said enactments in or around the
cemetery grounds.
   (B)   The rules of this cemetery shall not be deviated from without the
consent of the Board of Cemetery Trustees.
   (C)   Persons desirous of purchasing a lot may go to the Clerk of the
Cemetery who will show them the lots for sale.
   (D)   After a lot is selected and the Clerk of the Cemetery has been paid,
an order for interment may at any time be given.
   (E)   Prospective purchasers of a lot may, upon application at the office of
the Cemetery Clerk, secure a reservation of any one lot for a period not to
exceed 30 days.
   (F)   Lots in this cemetery are exempt from taxation and cannot be seized
for debt, nor attached by any process of law; neither can they be mortgaged.
   (G)   The courts have held that a deed to a cemetery lot represents personal
property, not real estate, and that a widow has no dower right therein; but her
right of burial in the lot may not be denied.
   (H)   The deed to a lot conveys only burial rights and the title to the land
remains in the corporation of the village.
   (I)   Sale of lots by the lot owners cannot be permitted except by the
consent of the Board of Cemetery Trustees.
   (J)   No lot can be exchanged for another unless the difference in value is
$25 and when such exchange is made, the original deed must be surrendered by
proper assignment. No lot can be transferred unless permission is obtained from
the Board; the expense of transfer or exchange, paid by the party applying for
the same. Proprietors shall not allow interment to be made in their lots for a
remuneration.
   (K)   All lots shall be held subject to the laws of the state, also subject
to all rules and regulations which may from time to time be adopted for the
government of said cemetery.
   (L)   The boundaries of all lots in this cemetery are designated by
cornerstones and numbers. These stones are set even with the surface of the
ground and no others are permitted.
   (M)   Owners of lots can have bodies removed from such graves by paying
additional cost of reinterment. Where bodies are to be removed to other
cemeteries the regular charge for disinterment shall be made.
(Ord. 15-95, passed 7-3-1995) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 CARE OF CEMETERY.
   (A)   To secure a good effect in the cemetery, it is essential that every
portion of it should be well cared for, as partial neglect would mar the beauty
of the entire surroundings; therefore, the care of all lots is assumed by the
Trustees; the avenues and walks will be kept in good condition; trees and
shrubbery will be trimmed and pruned, and the turf will be kept mowed.
   (B)   No persons other than the employees will be permitted to perform any
work on any lot without a permit from the caretaker.
      (1)   All grading or improvement of lots must be done by the employees of
the cemetery. Moderate estimates will be given by the caretaker, and all
charges must be paid before the work is begun.
      (2)   If any trees or shrubs situated in said lot, shall by means of
their roots, branches or otherwise, become detrimental to the adjacent lots or
avenues, or dangerous or inconvenient, it shall be the duty of said Trustees
and they shall have the right to remove said trees or shrubs or such parts
thereof as are detrimental or dangerous.
      (3)   The placing of boxes, unsecured toys, shepherd hooks and similar
articles upon the graves or lots, or flowers planted in the sod is prohibited.
The Board of Trustees reserve the right to remove all flowers, potted plants or
wreaths and the like, when frosted, faded or withered.
      (4)   Rusty, unpainted or broken benches, seats or urns, will be removed
from the lots and not be allowed to be replaced.
      (5)   Flowers growing on graves will not be permitted to remain unless
properly cultivated and kept continually free from weeds or grass.
      (6)   When permission for special planting has been obtained, the trees
or shrubs planted become the property of the cemetery.
(Ord. 15-95, passed 7-3-1995; Ord. 5-98, passed 5-11-1998) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 FLOWERS.
   (A)   Flowers may only be planted upon graves and must be kept in a proper
state of cultivation at all times.
   (B)   Failure to keep this rule will imply that the owner takes no further
interest in the flowers and they shall be removed by the caretaker and the
grave leveled even with the turf and grass seed planted and permission to
remake the grave into a flower bed will be forever denied.
      (1)   No grave that has been sodded over will be permitted to be
disturbed for the purpose of planting flowers, bushes, trees or any other type
of plants.
      (2)   No decorations are to be placed on the ground if the lot has an
upright monument, if the lot has a flat monument the decorations are to be
placed in line with and between monuments during mowing season.
      (3)   All winter decorations must be removed by April 1 for spring clean-
up. After April 1, cemetery personnel will remove and discard any remaining
decorations. All summer decorations must be removed by November 1 for fall
clean-up. After November 1, cemetery personnel will remove and discard any
remaining decorations. There are to be no decorations on the ground from April
1 through November 1 to accommodate the proper maintenance (mowing and
trimming) of the grounds. Any decorations or other items placed on the ground
during this restricted period will be removed by cemetery personnel and held
for approximately one month to allow the owners to claim the property, then
discarded if not claimed.
(Ord. 15-95, passed 7-3-1995; Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 NOTICE REQUIRED.
   Whenever a burial is to be made, notice thereof must be given to the Clerk
of the Cemetery no less than 24 hours previous to the interment with the name
of the deceased and the location of the burial lot.
   (A)   No funeral will be permitted on the following holidays except in the
case of contagious disease, or where ordered by the Board of Health: Memorial
Day; Labor Day; Thanksgiving; Christmas; or Easter. Saturday funerals must
arrive at the cemetery no later than 3:30 p.m. Sunday funerals will not be
permitted except in the case of contagious disease, or where ordered by the
Board of Health.
   (B)   The arrangement of the location of graves upon a lot is determined by
the caretakers, as it is necessary that some uniformity shall prevail.
   (C)   No interment will be allowed until all changes are paid.
   (D)   No grave shall be opened for interment or for removal by any person
not authorized by the Board.
   (E)   Funerals on reaching the cemetery will be under the charge of the
caretaker and each driver will be required to carefully observe and obey all
directions given.
   (F)   All interments in lots for which deeds or certificates of ownership
have been issued, shall be restricted to the members of the family and
immediate relatives of the proprietors thereof, except special permission to
the contrary, burials of automobiles or animals is strictly forbidden.
   (G)   No more than two cremain urns will be allowed to be buried on a single
lot. In the case of a cremain burial an urn constructed of metal, cement or
plastic must be used or burial will not be permitted.
   (H)   In the case of a regular burial, a vault constructed of metal or
cement must be used or burial will not be permitted.
(Ord. 15-95, passed 7-3-1995; Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 BASES AND MONUMENTS.
   (A)   No base stone shall be set other than level. The work must be cut so
as to fit properly on a level base. All foundations shall be finished true and
level. All stone work shall have the surface next to the foundations bedded
off, or squared sufficiently true and level to allow every part to be in
contact with the foundation.
   (B)   The use of sprawls between base stones and foundations or the removal
of any part of the foundation to accommodate irregularities or other defective
workmanship in the base stone will not be allowed.
      (1)   Every lot owner shall keep in good repair any monument or any other
structure which he or she may have on their lot. Should they fail to do so, the
Trustees may either repair same at the expense of the owner or remove it from
the lot.
      (2)   Granite is recommended as the best and most durable material for
monuments and grave markers. The use of any other material will not be
permitted.
      (3)   To prevent the excessive and unsightly crowding of monuments, not
more than one monument will be allowed on a lot and must be placed near the
center. Veterans plaques must be mounted on monuments if one is to be erected
or already in place.
      (4)   Soliciting of work in this cemetery or the placing of designers’,
dealers’ or agents’, or contractors’ names or advertisements upon any work is
prohibited.
      (5)   Obnoxious, reflective or otherwise unpopular inscriptions will not
be allowed on any monument, block or grave marker.
(Ord. 15-95, passed 7-3-1995) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 FOUNDATIONS.
   (A)   No foundation of any kind may be installed between May 15 and June 1,
nor in the winter, between December 1 and March 1.
   (B)   All foundations must be built by persons authorized to do so by the
Board at the expense of the lot owner. They must be built to the specifications
set by the Trustees of the cemetery.
   (C)   All foundations for monuments, blocks and markers, must not be less
than three feet deep. All foundations must have a four-inch border beyond the
base of the monument.
(Ord. 15-95, passed 7-3-1995) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 ENTRY THROUGH GATE.
   (A)   No person will be permitted to enter the cemetery but through the
gate.
   (B)   Children will not be permitted to enter the cemetery unless attended
by competent persons, who will be responsible for their conduct.
   (C)   No person will be permitted to bring refreshments into the cemetery.
   (D)   Scattering or leaving discarded flowers, paper, cans, jars, bottles,
baskets or any rubbish whatsoever upon lots, roadways or grounds is strictly
prohibited. The cemetery has provided receptacles for such rubbish and visitors
are required to use them.
   (E)   All persons are prohibited from gathering any flowers, either wild or
cultivated, or breaking any trees or shrubs or plants, either wild or
cultivated.
   (F)   Except at military funerals, discharging firearms is prohibited in and
around the cemetery grounds, to the distance of 100 yards.
   (G)   The caretaker is instructed to refuse admission to all improper
persons and to those who are known to have at any time caused a disturbance, or
otherwise transgressed the regulations of the cemetery, until proper amends
have been made.
   (H)   Any person disturbing the quiet and good order of the place by noise
or improper conduct, or who shall violate any of the foregoing rules, will be
compelled instantly to leave the cemetery.
   (I)   The officers and employees of this cemetery having been appointed
under an act of the legislature of the state, special police officers, with
power to arrest on sight and prosecute all those who violate the ordinance, or
commit trespass, all persons therefore, are reminded that the grounds are
sacredly devoted to the burial of the dead, and that the provisions and
penalties of the law will be strictly enforced in all cases of wanton injury,
disturbance and disregard of the rules.
   (J)   It is of the utmost importance that there should be a strict
observance of all proprieties due to the place, whether embraced in these
regulations or not.
(Ord. 15-95, passed 7-3-1995) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08 AUTOMOBILE TRAFFIC.
   (A)   Admission of automobiles upon the roads of this cemetery is restricted
to those persons who observe the traffic rules adopted by the cemetery
officials.
   (B)   All automobiles are requested to keep to the right and observe one way
drive avenues.
   (C)   The speed of automobiles is limited to 15 mph and vehicles are not
permitted to turn upon roads.
   (D)   Visitors upon foot have the primary right to the use of the roads and
all vehicle drivers are required to observe their right by careful driving and
a strict adherence to the rules.
   (E)   Any driver who runs an automobile or other vehicle upon the lawns,
where damage results therefrom, shall be required to make good such damage.
   (F)   Automobiles are reminded that this is a cemetery and not a park; that
the roads herein are not public highways; that unnecessary use of the roads
entails a large expense upon the taxpayers for their maintenance and that the
privilege to drive thereon must not be abused.
   (G)   Failure to comply with the rules renders the offender liable to
arrest. Habitual offenders may be denied permission to bring their automobiles
into the cemetery.
(Ord. 15-95, passed 7-3-1995) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.09 RULES AND REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Maple Grove Cemetery Rules and Regulations are adopted by reference and
incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out in
length herein.
(Ord. 15-95, passed 7-3-1995)
INDIGENT BURIALS
§ 94.20 PURPOSE.
   This indigent burial policy is enacted to comply with the provisions of R.C.
§ 9.15 pertaining to the burial of indigent persons found within the village
who are not claimed by any person for private interment or cremation at the
person’s own expense, or interment or cremation when the body of an indigent
person is claimed by an indigent person. The purpose of this policy is to
provide for the burial of indigents, or the burial of an indigent person
claimed by an indigent person, for reasons of public health and sensibilities.
(Ord. 15-16, passed 10-17-2017)
§ 94.21 APPLICATION OF POLICY.
   (A)   Unclaimed. When the body of a dead person is found within the village
and such person was not an inmate of a correctional, benevolent or charitable
institution of this state; and the body is not claimed by any person for
private interment or cremation at the person’s own expense; or delivered for
the purpose of medical or surgical study or dissection in accordance with R.C.
§ 1713.34, the village shall be liable for the cremation and inurnment
expenses, in the amounts set forth herein, if:
      (1)   The deceased is determined to be an indigent person; and
      (2)   The person was a legal resident of the village at the time of
death.
   (B)   Claimed. When the body is claimed by an indigent person simply as that
of a loved one, without undertaking to arrange and pay for private interment,
the village shall be liable for the cremation and inurnment expenses, in the
amounts set forth herein, if:
      (1)   The deceased is determined to be an indigent person;
      (2)   The person was a legal resident of the village at the time of
death; and
      (3)   The claimant is determined to be an indigent person.
   (C)   Village officer. The Village Administrator is hereby appointed as the
proper officer of the village, in accordance with R.C. § 9.15, to be
responsible for the administration of this indigent burial policy. If the next-
of-kin of the deceased are not available or are unknown, the Village
Administrator shall have the authority to sign all documents necessary for the
cremation.
(Ord. 15-16, passed 10-17-2017)
§ 94.22 DETERMINING INDIGENCE.
   (A)   Determination. Prior to the cremation authorization, the Village
Administrator shall make reasonable attempt to determine whether the deceased
person is in fact indigent and, where the deceased person is claimed by an
indigent person, whether the claimant is in fact indigent.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      INDIGENT CLAIMANT. Encompasses individuals who are poor, needy, destitute
or in poverty. The criteria for determining whether an individual is indigent
include the ready availability of real or personal property owned; employment
benefits; pensions; annuities; Social Security; unemployment compensation;
inheritances; number and age of dependents; outstanding debts, obligations and
liabilities; and any other relevant considerations concerning the financial
condition of the individual.
      INDIGENT DECEDENT. A person who dies without leaving an ascertainable
estate sufficient to pay part or all of the person’s burial expenses and whose
burial expenses are not payable by the state or county Veteran’s
Administration. The estate of the decedent shall include, but is not limited
to, the ready availability of real or personal property owned; employment
benefits; pensions; annuities; Social Security; unemployment compensation;
inheritances; number and age of dependents; outstanding debts, obligations and
liabilities; and any other relevant considerations concerning the financial
condition of the individual.
(Ord. 15-16, passed 10-17-2017)
§ 94.23 DETERMINING LEGAL RESIDENCY.
   (A)   Determination. Prior to the cremation authorization, the Village
Administrator shall make reasonable attempt to determine whether the deceased
person was a legal resident of the village.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      LEGAL RESIDENCY. A physical presence in a particular location, coupled
with the present intent to make that place a permanent residence for a period
of time.
   (C)   Nursing homes. In cases where the decedent was living in a nursing
home or hospital located within the village, legal residence shall mean an
intent to make the nursing home or hospital a permanent residence.
(Ord. 15-16, passed 10-17-2017)
§ 94.24 BURIAL POLICY.
   (A)   Authorization. Upon finding that the deceased was a legal resident of
the village and an indigent person, and where the deceased person is claimed by
an indigent person, that the claimant is indigent, the Village Administrator
shall authorize the funeral director or other party to cremate the decedent.
   (B)   Cost of cremation. The village shall dispose of the remains of
indigent persons by cremation only. The village shall pay a maximum of $500 for
the cremation and inurnment of the remains of the deceased. Said services shall
include transportation of the deceased to the funeral home, necessary supplies
and procedures, and provide a temporary urn for the storage of the deceased’s
cremated remains. The Finance Director is hereby authorized to pay such
expenses upon certification from the Village Administrator and receipt of an
invoice or bill from the funeral director.
   (C)   Release to family. The cremated remains of the deceased may be
released to the decedent’s family.
   (D)   Burial for unclaimed. If the cremated remains are not claimed, the
village shall cause the remains to be buried, and the Finance Director is
hereby authorized to pay such expenses, upon certification from the Village
Administrator and receipt of an invoice or bill for the burial. The village
shall also provide at the grave of the person’s cremated remains, if such
remains are buried, a metal stone or concrete marker on which the person’s
name, date of birth (if known), age (if known) and date of death shall be
inscribed.
(Ord. 15-16, passed 10-17-2017)
§ 94.25 LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   No payment for funeral expenses. If the body of an indigent person is
claimed by relatives or friends who arrange for the funeral according to their
wishes, the village shall not pay all or any part of the expenses for the same.
   (B)   Not supplemental. The village’s indigent burial policy is not
supplemental. The funeral director or funeral home personnel shall not ask for
nor accept any funds above the amounts set forth herein. Upon completion of the
cremation, the funeral director shall submit an itemized bill to the Village
Administrator containing the following information:
      (1)   Name and age of the deceased;
      (2)   Place of burial;
      (3)   Services performed;
      (4)   Total costs of services;
      (5)   Amount received from other sources; and
      (6)   Amount due from the village.
   (C)   Refund by funeral director when funds are otherwise received. The
funeral director or funeral home shall reduce the cost to the village by the
amount of funds received from any other source. If additional funds are paid to
the funeral director or funeral home after the village has paid as herein
provided, the village shall be refunded the exact amount of the additional
funds paid to the funeral director or funeral home within 30 days of the
receipt thereof. The funeral director shall submit a notarized statement to the
Village Administrator indicating his or her understanding and compliance with
the provisions of this policy.
   (D)   Reimbursement for expenses. In the event that it is found after the
cremation of the deceased and payment of the cremation and/or burial expenses
by the village, that such indigent decedent and/or indigent claimant had means,
assets, insurance or other benefits or allowances available for the payment of
all or part of such expenses, such proceedings may be taken to recover such
costs and expenses as may be authorized by law.
(Ord. 15-16, passed 10-17-2017)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, or persons violating any of the provisions of §§
94.01 through
94.09 or the rules therein stated, upon conviction thereof, be fined any sum
not less than $10, nor more than $100 for each and every offense, and the costs
of prosecution.
(Ord. 15-95, passed 7-3-1995)
CHAPTER 95: SIDEWALKS AND STREETS
Section
Sidewalk Obstructions
   
95.01   Use of skateboards
   
95.02   Use of roller skates, roller blades and other such skating items
   
95.03   Reckless disregard
   
95.04   Sidewalk cafés
Sidewalk Construction and Maintenance
   
95.15   Maintained and repaired in good order
   
95.16   New subdivision developments
   
95.17   Residential block
   
95.18   Overall plan and implementation
   
95.19   Village action
   
95.20   Assessment
   
95.21   Report
Access Management/Driveways
   
95.30   Purpose
   
95.31   Applicability
   
95.32   Variance of standards
   
95.33   Permit application process
   
95.34   Street access
   
95.35   Intersection visibility
   
95.36   Traffic impact analysis (TIA)
 
   
95.99   Penalty
SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 95.01 USE OF SKATEBOARDS.
   The use of skateboards, in the village shall be, and is hereby prohibited as
to the following public places:
   (A)   Any and all streets and roadways within the village;
   (B)   Any and all sidewalks located on Main Street between College Avenue
and Elm Street within the village; and
   (C)   Any and all recreational surfaces in parks owned or operated by the
village. This includes, but is not limited to any and all shuffleboard courts,
pool and pool deck, basketball courts and the like at all times. The village
shall provide warning signage near those recreational surfaces to advise the
public of this prohibition.
(Ord. 16-08, passed 6-9-2008) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 USE OF ROLLER SKATES, ROLLER BLADES AND OTHER SUCH SKATING ITEMS.
   (A)   The use of roller skates, roller blades and other such street skating
items except skateboards as set forth above is hereby restricted as follows.
   (B)   The use of roller skates, roller blades and other such street skating
items except skateboards is prohibited on all public streets, roadways and
sidewalks within the village during the night-time hours, unless the operator/
user of said roller skates, roller blades and other such street skating items
except skateboards is equipped with retro-reflective material on the clothing
that shall be visible on the front and back of said operator/user from a
distance of 600 feet when directly in from of lawful lower beams of head lamps
on a motor vehicle.
(Ord. 16-08, passed 6-9-2008) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 RECKLESS DISREGARD.
   No person shall operate or use any skateboard, roller skates, roller blades
and other such street skating items in any manner within the village with
reckless disregard for the safety of himself or herself, other persons or
property.
(Ord. 16-08, passed 6-9-2008) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 SIDEWALK CAFÉS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, sidewalk cafés
may be permitted in the Village of Bluffton in accordance with the rules and
regulations as promulgated by the Village Administrator and Zoning Department.
See Exhibit 95.04(1) which is attached to Ordinance 03-21 and is incorporated
herein by reference.
   (B)   No person or entity shall operate a sidewalk café without first
obtaining a valid permit from the Zoning Department, and no person or entity
shall operate said sidewalk café in violation of any rule or regulation
promulgated by the Village Administrator of the Village of Bluffton. Any such
violation may result in revocation of said sidewalk café permit.
(Ord. 03-21, passed - -)
SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE
§ 95.15 MAINTAINED AND REPAIRED IN GOOD ORDER.
   Any and all existing sidewalks within the village shall be maintained and
repaired in good order pursuant to the standards and designs as specified in
Exhibit “A” as attached to the ordinance codified herein and adopted by
reference as if set out in full herein, which may be amended from time to time
upon recommendation of the Village Administrator to the Village Council or by
the Village Council at its discretion.
(Ord. 08-18, passed 7-23-2018)
§ 95.16 NEW SUBDIVISION DEVELOPMENTS.
   The village requires that any and all new subdivision developments or other
construction developments within the village corporation limit shall have
sidewalks as specified in the subdivision regulations for the village.
(Ord. 08-18, passed 7-23-2018)
§ 95.17 RESIDENTIAL BLOCK.
   The village intends to have sidewalks in every residential block, meaning a
length of street between two intersections on which there is at least one
residential structure; to that end, the village will designate, according to
its financial ability and construction schedule, which sidewalks to construct.
Following their construction, maintenance of the sidewalks will be the
responsibility of the property owner.
(Ord. 08-18, passed 7-23-2018)
§ 95.18 OVERALL PLAN AND IMPLEMENTATION.
   (A)   Existing sidewalk repair and replacement.
      (1)   Any and all existing sidewalks within the village will be reviewed
by the Village Administrator or his or her designee to determine if the said
existing sidewalk is in need of repair or replacement. Should that sidewalk
need repair or replacement, the same shall be completed within the times and
manner as set forth in this subchapter. Any sidewalk constructed of brick that
exists in the village as of January 1, 2014 shall be considered a grandfathered
sidewalk. Such grandfathered sidewalk may be maintained, repaired and rebuilt
in brick; but, except for its composition in other than concrete, such sidewalk
shall be subject to the same surface standards as set forth in Exhibit “A”, as
attached to the ordinance codified herein.
      (2)   Any person who undertakes to replace or repair any existing
sidewalk within the village when required by order under this subchapter shall
obtain from the village a sidewalk permit. Said permits shall be issued at no
cost; however, the applicant for such a permit shall provide the village the
following information: name of the contractor; anticipated completion date; and
any other relevant information as may be requested by the Village
Administrator.
   (B)   Construction and installation of connecting sidewalks.
      (1)   CONNECTING SIDEWALK is defined as that section of sidewalk required
to complete and make continuous existing sidewalk sections that have gaps in
them. The Village Administrator or his or her designee shall designate missing
sidewalks as either connecting sidewalks or new sidewalks based on the length
of the gap between existing sidewalks, or the non-existence of sidewalks
altogether.
      (2)   The Village Administrator shall provide a list and map of the
parcels and areas where he or she believes connecting sidewalks should be built
to the Streets and Alleys Committee of Council for its review and
recommendation. Within 45 days of the Village Administrator providing a list
and map, the Streets and Alleys Committee of Council shall forward its
recommendations and amendments to the Village Council as a whole for review and
public comment. The owner of any parcel that is considered for installation of
a connecting sidewalk shall be notified by regular mail not less than 30 days
prior to a public hearing of Council. Council shall accept any and all comments
from those parcel owners submitted in writing before the date of the public
hearing and any comments from parcel owners or the public at the public
hearing. After the close of the public hearing, the Council shall determine, by
majority vote, which parcels should have a connecting sidewalk pursuant to this
subchapter.
   (C)   Construction and installation new sidewalks.
      (1)   New sidewalks consist of areas where sidewalk would benefit the
village but the gap between existing sidewalks is long or sidewalks do not
exist. The Village Administrator or his or her designee shall identify those
residential areas of the village where new sidewalks should be installed.
      (2)   The Village Administrator shall provide a list and map of the
parcels and areas where he or she believes new sidewalk should be installed to
the Streets and Alleys Committee of Council for its review and recommendation.
Within 45 days of the Village Administrator providing a list and map, the
Streets and Alleys Committee of Council shall forward its recommendations and
amendments to the Village Council as a whole for review and public comment. The
owner of any parcel that is considered for installation of a new sidewalk shall
be notified by regular mail not less than 30 days prior to a public hearing of
Council. Council shall accept any and all comments from those parcel owners
submitted in writing before the date of the public hearing and any comments
from parcel owners or the public at the public hearing. After the close of the
public hearing, the Council shall determine, by majority vote, which parcels
should have a new sidewalk pursuant to this subchapter.
   (D)   Installation of sidewalks by the village. The village, after notice
and hearings set forth herein, shall construct sidewalks on and in those areas
as determined by the Council with the cost of the same to be divided equally
between the village and the property owner in proportion to the front footage
of that property owner to the total installation costs.
      (1)   New construction of sidewalks shall be in compliance with the
specification that are made a part of this subchapter.
      (2)   The village shall remain responsible for any defect in installation
and workmanship for a period of one year from the date of construction.
      (3)   Thereafter, the parcel owner shall be responsible for any repair
and replacement of any sidewalk installed by the village in the future.
      (4)   The installation of sidewalks for each fiscal year, shall be
determined by the Streets and Alleys Committee based upon the funding
appropriated by the Village Council for that year.
      (5)   Installation of new sidewalks by the village shall be designed by
the village and shall typically include removal of obstructions, grading and
grass reseeding.
      (6)   Installation of curbs and gutters on any street of the village
shall also be paid 50% by the property owner and 50% by the village. Curbs and
gutters will be installed and replaced according to specifications provided by
the Village Administrator.
(Ord. 08-18, passed 7-23-2018)
§ 95.19 VILLAGE ACTION.
   When a property owner fails to undertake the repair or replacement of a
sidewalk as required above, the village shall thereafter undertake procedures
pursuant to R.C. Chapters 727, 729 or any other means provided by current or
future law to finance and engage contractors to complete sidewalk repairs or
replacement according to designs set forth in Exhibit “A”, as attached to the
ordinance codified herein.
(Ord. 08-18, passed 7-23-2018)
§ 95.20 ASSESSMENT.
   When a property owner undertakes construction to repair or replace their
sidewalk pursuant to notice above; and without excuse of Acts of God or other
factors beyond his or her control the owner does not complete repair or
replacement within the time required; and as a direct result of such tardiness
the village fails to include that project in its contracted projects, the
village may assess that owner for front footage, a sum equal to an additional
10% of the total cost to the village for that frontage to compensate for the
additional change orders and amendments to the village contracts.
(Ord. 08-18, passed 7-23-2018)
§ 95.21 REPORT.
   The Village Administrator or his or her designee shall provide a report to
the Village Council on a quarterly basis regarding the progress of the master
sidewalk repair and improvement plan.
(Ord. 08-18, passed 7-23-2018)
ACCESS MANAGEMENT/DRIVEWAYS
§ 95.30 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this standard is to regulate access to public streets. These
standards are designed to minimize safety hazards, traffic congestion, and
other negative impacts which can result when land use development is not
carefully coordinated with the street and roadway system.
(Ord. 11-18, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 95.31 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply to all development within the village.
(Ord. 11-18, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 95.32 VARIANCE OF STANDARDS.
   (A)   These standards may be varied by the Administrator or designee, in the
following situations:
      (1)   To accommodate unique safety or design situations; or
      (2)   If indicated by a traffic impact analysis (see §
95.36).
   (B)   The applicant shall be responsible for providing sufficient
information to the Administrator or designee, to document a need for such
modification.
   (C)   The standards in this section shall not be used to totally prohibit
access to a site that meets all other standards for development under the
provisions of this section; however, any access point which is permitted shall
meet these access control standards to the maximum extent possible and shall
meet all minimum design specifications for access points on arterials.
(Ord. 11-18, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 95.33 PERMIT APPLICATION PROCESS.
   Application for permit for access to roadways within the village will be
completed with the submission of the required application for zoning and
building permit which may be obtained from the Village Administration.
(Ord. 11-18, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 95.34 STREET ACCESS.
   (A)   Permitted access.
      (1)   All residential uses are permitted to take direct access to local
access streets or minor collector streets.
      (2)   Nonresidential uses in a residential zoning district may be
permitted direct access to a local access street only if such access would, in
the opinion of the Administrator or designee, improve traffic safety, as, for
example, on sites located at the intersection of a local access and any type of
collector street, or if a traffic impact analysis conducted pursuant to the
provisions of §
95.36 indicates that such use would have no negative impact on the residential
street.
      (3)   Where a new use will be located on a corner lot, the Administrator
or designee shall have the authority to determine where the driveway may access
the adjacent street system.
      (4)   If there are single-family or two-family dwellings located on a
corner lot as of the effective date of this subchapter that have driveway
access to a major collector, such use is encouraged to relocate the driveway
access to a lower volume side street (e.g., to a local access street or minor
collector street), closing off the driveway that accesses the major collector
wherever possible.
   (B)   Alignment and separation of driveways.
      (1)   Driveways shall either be directly opposite other driveways or
street intersections or shall be offset by the minimum driveway spacing
distances shown in
Table 95.34, except in locations where there is a raised median in the street.
      (2)   A driveway shall intersect a cross-street at, or nearly at, a
right, 90 degree angle. In no case shall any intersection have an angle less
than 75 degrees.
      (3)   The spaces established in
Table 95.34 shall be measured from edge of pavement to edge of pavement between
the two closest edges of the driveways. See
Figure 95.34-E.
      (4)   Single-family and two-family residential uses shall be exempt from
this provision.
TABLE 95.34: MINIMUM DRIVEWAY SPACING
Posted Speed Limit Minimum Driveway
(Miles Per Hour)   Spacing (Feet)
TABLE 95.34: MINIMUM DRIVEWAY SPACING
Posted Speed Limit Minimum Driveway
(Miles Per Hour)   Spacing (Feet)
25                 105
30                 125
35                 150
40                 185
45                 230
50                 275
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7cfcbf05c23fdf794b21a7e11b988ad740652023/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3790.png]
Figure 95.34-E: Illustration of minimum driveway spacing requirements
   (C)    Driveway setbacks.
      (1)    Driveways for residential dwellings shall be set back a minimum of
three feet from all shared lot lines.
      (2)   Driveways for nonresidential uses shall be set back a minimum of
ten feet from all shared lot lines unless shared parking or joint parking
arrangements are made. This setback shall be increased to 25 feet if the use is
adjacent to a lot in a residential zoning district.
      (3)   All driveways that access vehicular use areas where there is
parking for five or more vehicles shall be set back a minimum of 100 feet from
any stop sign as measured from the sign pole to the closest edge of the
driveway pavement.
   (D)   Dimensions of a driveway.
      (1)   Multi-family dwellings and nonresidential uses.
         (a)   All driveways shall have a minimum five-foot flare.
         (b)   In no case shall any driveway exceed 30 feet in width.
      (2)   Single-family dwellings.
         (a)   All driveways shall have a minimum width of eight feet and a
minimum three-foot flare.
         (b)   In no case shall a driveway exceed 30 feet in width along its
full length with the exception of any turnaround areas used for
maneuverability.
   (E)   Additional standards.
      (1)   All driveways shall be constructed to the latest versions of the
Ohio Department of Transportation design and construction standards, and shall
be approved by the Village Administrator or designee prior to drive
construction.
      (2)   Driveways shall be set back from an intersection of two roadways to
the maximum extent feasible.
(Ord. 11-18, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 95.35 INTERSECTION VISIBILITY.
   (A)   In order to provide a clear view to the motorist there shall be a
triangular area of clear visibility that is free of any obstructions where
there is an intersection of two or more streets and/or where a driveway
intersects with a street.
   (B)   Where a street intersects with another street, the triangular areas
shall be defined by measuring 35 feet from the intersection of the extension of
the front and side street curb lines (or the edge of pavement where there is no
curb) and connecting the lines across the property. See
Figure 95.35-F.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7cfcbf05c23fdf794b21a7e11b988ad740652023/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3788.png]
Figure 95.35-F: Intersection visibility area for two intersecting streets.
   (C)   Where a driveway intersects a street, the triangular areas shall be
defined by measuring 25 feet from the edge of the driveway along the street and
20 feet along the driveway, perpendicular from the street. See
Figure 95.35-G.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7cfcbf05c23fdf794b21a7e11b988ad740652023/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3786.png]
Figure 95.35-G: Traffic safety visibility triangle for driveway and street
intersections.
   (D)   Division (C) of this section shall not apply to driveways for single-
family or two-family dwellings.
   (E)   The Administrator or designee may reduce the distance requirement
where it is determined that a narrow parcel frontage would excessively reduce
buildable area.
   (F)   No structure, sign, or landscape element shall exceed 36 inches in
height, measured from the top of the curb, within the area established above,
unless approved by the Administrator or designee. Trees may be located within
these areas provided they are pruned and/or the canopy is trimmed to provide
clear visibility (with the exception of the tree trunk) up to ten feet above
the top of the curb.
   (G)   Where no curb exists, the height shall be measured from the top of the
pavement.
(Ord. 11-18, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 95.36 TRAFFIC IMPACT ANALYSIS (TIA).
   (A)   Intent. A traffic impact analysis (TIA) is intended to identify the
transportation impacts which are likely to be generated by a proposed use and
to identify improvements required to ensure safe ingress to and egress from a
proposed development, maintenance of adequate street capacity, and elimination
of hazardous conditions.
   (B)   Applicability. A TIA shall be required in the following cases:
      (1)   Any use, re-use, expansion, or new development that at its access
point will generate, or add more than 60 peak hour trips.
      (2)   The development is expected to reduce the level of service (LOS) on
adjacent roadways and/or intersections to below a level of service below D, as
noted or defined in the Highway Capacity Manual; as determined by the Village
Administrator or designee.
      (3)   Any use that due to its size, density, traffic generation rates, or
location can reasonably be expected to create traffic issues, as determined by
the Administrator or designee are required to submit a TIA. As determined by
the Village Administrator or designee.
   (C)   Contents of a TIA. The TIA shall be prepared and certified by a
professional engineer and shall include, at a minimum, the following data and
information. Information and statistics required by this section may, when
available, be obtained from the village.
      (1)   Study area. The minimum study area shall include all proposed and
existing site access locations and major intersections (signalized and
unsignalized) adjacent to the site. Depending on the overall size of the
development, as well as the nature of the development, the Administrator may
require that additional areas be included in the study, based upon, but not
limited to, local or site-specific issues, local policy, and impacts that are
likely to occur to residential areas. Final determination of the study area
shall be agreed upon by the Administrator and the developer.
      (2)   Existing conditions. The report shall contain information clearly
describing, in written or graphic form, the existing and proposed conditions
including:
         (a)   The proposed land use of the site and anticipated stages of
construction;
         (b)   The existing street system including major intersections,
ingress and egress locations, roadway and right-of-way widths, traffic signals
and traffic control devices and public transportation facilities;
         (c)   Any proposed changes in the street system; and
         (d)   The highest average peak hour volume for any weekday hour
between 3:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m.
      (3)   Development impact. The report shall include information on the
average weekday trip generation rate (trip ends) and the highest average hourly
weekday trip generation rate between 3:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m. for the proposed
use as determined from figures provided by a professional engineer.
      (4)   Determination of the capacity of the roadway.
         (a)   Data and procedures contained in the Ohio Department of
Transportation's Access Management Manual (latest edition) and ITE Trip
Generation Manual (latest edition) shall be utilized to calculate the level of
service of roadways as required for this TIA. Roadway service volumes shall be
calculated at level of service D for roads identified as collectors.
         (b)   All collector roadways operating below level of service D
(inclusive of levels E and F) shall be identified as congested locations.
      (5)   Conclusions. The projected total future peak hour traffic demand
shall be calculated for all roads fronting on a proposed site and all
intersections within the study area. This demand shall consist of an assumed
normal increase of traffic volume of 1% per year (or the Lima Allen County
Regional Planning Commission projections, whichever is less) and the
anticipated traffic that will be generated by the proposed development. An
analysis shall be undertaken to determine if roadways and intersections will
operate at the appropriate level of service following completion of the
development, given the future peak hour traffic that will be generated by the
proposed development. This analysis consists of the comparison of the total
future peak hour intersection and roadway traffic demand with the service
volumes for level D computed in division (C)(4) above. All roadways and
intersections that would operate below the required level of service following
completion of the development shall be considered deficient.
   (D)   Mitigating traffic impacts. If the TIA results in the conclusion that
the level of service of adjacent roadways and/or intersections is or will
become deficient prior to the proposed development and will not be able to
accommodate the increased traffic load generated by the proposed development,
any or all of the following mitigating steps may be required, at the
developer's expense, by the Administrator or designee. The Administrator or
designee shall make their determination prior to approval of a site plan or
zoning permit.
      (1)   Limitation of the number and/or location of access points;
      (2)   Design of access points to prevent certain turn movements;
      (3)   Dedication of and/or improvement to the right-of-way abutting the
development of improvements in the immediate vicinity of the development to add
turn lane, through traffic lanes or allow redesign of intersections or access
points to accommodate additional traffic or turning movements;
      (4)   Installation of traffic signals or other traffic control devices as
may be warranted by the Ohio Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices
(OMUTCD).
      (5)   Development of the site at a lower intensity than originally
proposed.
   (E)   Responsibility for improvements. The developer shall be responsible
for all proposed improvements. The responsibility includes (but not limited to)
planning, financial commitment, and construction of the proposed improvements.
Additionally, the developer will be required to provide a performance bond in
the amount of the proposed project's final engineers estimate plus a minimum of
20% (total amount of performance bond shall be a minimum of 120% of project
estimate). Furthermore, right-of-way dedication shall be required in all cases.
   (F)   Appeals procedure.
      (1)   Any and all appeals from the Village Administrator's decision may
be taken by any person aggrieved by any decision of the Administrator or
designee to the Village of Bluffton, Ohio's Board of Building and Zoning
Appeals.
      (2)   Such appeal shall be taken within 20 days after the decision, by
filing with the Village of Bluffton, a written notice of appeal specifying the
grounds thereof and otherwise comply with the appeals process set forth in
Article 26 of the Zoning Ordinance.
      (3)   The Administrator or designee shall review the appeal and take into
consideration the grounds of the appeal. If, upon review of the grounds of the
appeal, the Village Administrator or designee and the appealing party can craft
a solution that addresses the appeal, then, the Village Administrator and the
party appealing shall sign a document setting forth the solution and file the
same with the records of the village and the appeal shall be dismissed.
      (4)   If an equitable solution to the appeal is not reached, the matter
will be forwarded to the Board of Building and Zoning Appeals for hearing and
decision. The Board of Building and Zoning Appeals shall conduct a public
hearing on the appeal. The Board of Building and Zoning Appeals shall reduce
their decision in writing signed by Chair of the said Board. Further appeals,
if any, shall be had, according to law, with the Common Pleas Court of Allen
County, Ohio.
(Ord. 11-18, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates §
95.01 shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   In addition, the following shall be mandatory penalties for
violation hereof.
         (a)   For a first offense, the skateboards, roller skates, roller
blades and other such street skating item shall be immediately seized and
impounded by the Village Police Department for a period of not to exceed ten
days.
         (b)   For a second offense, the skateboards, roller skates, roller
blades and other such street skating item shall be immediately seized and
impounded by the Village Police Department for a period of not to exceed 30
days. The court shall fine the violator not less than $50 none of which may be
suspended.
         (c)   For a third or subsequent offense, the skateboards, roller
skates, roller blades and other such street skating item shall be immediately
seized and impounded by the Village Police Department for a period of not to
exceed 60 days. The court shall fine the violator not less than $75 none of
which may be suspended.
(Ord. 16-08, passed 6-9-2008)
CHAPTER 96: NUISANCES
Section
Removal of Trash and Rubbish
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Nuisance declared
   
96.03   Order for removal
   
96.04   Exceptions
   
96.05   Garbage
   
96.06   Keeping down weeds and litter
   
96.07   Notice to owner
   
96.08   Procedure when owner fails to comply with notice
Noise
   
96.20   Regulation of use of loud amplification systems
   
96.21   Noise limitations
Regulations for the Mowing and Maintenance of Properties and Adjoining Areas
   
96.35   Purpose
   
96.36   Definitions
   
96.37   Cutting specifications and standards of practice
   
96.38   Uniform height specifications
   
96.39   Publication of notice
   
96.40   Failure to comply
   
96.41   Abatement by village
   
96.42   Collection of costs
 
   
96.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Building Maintenance Code, see §§
150.15 through
150.18
   Garbage and Recycling, see
Ch. 50
REMOVAL OF TRASH AND RUBBISH
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE PARTS. Includes any portion or part of any motor driven vehicle
as detached from the vehicle as a whole.
   GARBAGE AND OFFAL. Includes all refuse and waste of animals, fish, fowl,
fruit and vegetable matter, and any other material or materials so designated
by the Lima-Allen County Board of Health or the state, which accumulated in the
use and preparation of food for the table, either commercially or for family
purposes, that has been discarded and abandoned and is no longer of value to
the owner for ordinary purposes of domestic consumption, and shall also include
all refuse arising from the dealing in, storing of or preparation of the
aforesaid substances.
   LITTER. Includes any garbage, waste, peelings of vegetables or fruits,
rubbish, ashes, cans, bottles, wire, paper, cartons, boxes, parts of
automobiles, wagons, furniture, glass, oil of an unsightly or unsanitary
nature, or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
   MOTOR VEHICLE IN AN INOPERATIVE CONDITION. Includes any style or type of
motor driven vehicle used or useful for the conveyance of persons or property
which in unable to move under its own power due to defective or missing parts,
and which has remained in such condition for a period of not less than ten
consecutive days.
   MOTOR VEHICLE UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE. Includes any style or type of motor
driven vehicle used for conveyance of persons or property which is in the
dangerous condition as defective or missing parts or is in such a condition
generally as to be unfit for further use as a conveyance.
   REFUSE. Embraces only such matters as was either in fact noxious or has been
refused and abandoned by its owner as worthless.
   RUBBISH. Includes wire, chips, shavings, bottles, broken glass, crockery,
tin, cast or wooden ware, boxes, rags, dead weeds, paper circulars, handbills,
boots, shoes, ashes or any waste material other than garbage or offal.
   SCRAP METAL. Includes pieces of or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper,
aluminum or any alloy thereof whether covered with porcelain or other material,
whether in tact or in parts which has served its usefulness in its original
form and can no longer be used or useful for its originally intended purpose.
   USED BUILDING MATERIALS. Includes any materials such as wood, stone, brick,
cement blocks or any composition or combination thereof used or useful in the
erection of any building or structure which have been used previously for
erection or construction by the same person or other persons.
(Ord. 16-67, passed 6-6-1967; Ord. 21-88, passed 1-3-1989)
§ 96.02 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Except as provided in §
96.04, it shall be unlawful and hereby is declared a nuisance for any person to
store, place or allow to remain used building materials, motor vehicles in an
inoperative condition, motor vehicles unfit for further use, automobile parts,
scrap metal, refuse or rubbish on any lot, lots, parts of lots or parcel of
land within the corporate limits of the village.
(Ord. 16-67, passed 6-6-1967; Ord. 21-88, passed 1-3-1989) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.03 ORDER FOR REMOVAL.
   (A)   In the event of a violation of any section of this subchapter, the
Mayor shall give notice to the owner, occupant or person having charge of the
premises upon which the violation occurs to cease such violation. Such notice
shall be in writing and shall be served upon the owner, occupant or person
having charge of the premises either personally by a member of the Village
Police Department or at the usual place of residency of such owner, occupant or
person having charge of such premises by registered or certified mail addressed
to such person’s last place of residence.
   (B)   If the person served with the notice as provided in division (A)
above, fails to cause such violation be cease within ten days of the date upon
which the notice was issued, he or she shall be subject to the penalty provided
in §
96.99, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each and every day
during or on which the violation occurs or continues beyond such ten-day
period; provided, however, that no additional notice of violation is required
to be given for such subsequent days.
(Ord. 16-67, passed 6-6-1967; Ord. 21-88, passed 1-3-1989) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
96.02, it shall not be unlawful for any person to purchase used building
materials and place or store them on any lot, lots, parts of lots or parcels of
land when such materials are to be used by the purchaser or owner in later
construction on the same lot or any lot owned or controlled by such person;
provided that such materials shall not remain on said lot, lots, parts of lots
or parcel of land for a period of more than 30 days unless the construction or
erection plan for the use of said materials has commenced; and provided further
that such materials are used or consumed in the construction or removed from
the premises when the period of four months from the time said material are
first placed on the lot, lots, parts of lots or parcel of land, has elapsed. It
shall be unlawful for any person or persons to move any materials so stored or
placed to another location within the village for the purpose of avoiding the
intent of this section, except that any such materials may be moved to another
lot, lots, parts of lots or parcels of land when the same have been sold to a
bona fide purchaser for value for such purchaser’s own use. It shall also not
be unlawful for any person operating an automobile junk yard as a bona fide
business arrangement in an area properly zoned therefor as of the effective
date of this subchapter to continue such business.
(Ord. 16-67, passed 6-6-1967; Ord. 21-88, passed 1-3-1989) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05 GARBAGE.
   (A)   No garbage or offal shall be permitted or remain exposed in any
building or on any premises for a period longer than shall be reasonably
necessary to remove and deposit the same in a waste container of substantial
water type construction with a tight-fitting lid.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of any person producing or having garbage or
offal to cause it to be removed by persons properly authorized to places
permitted or provided by the village.
(Ord. 16-67, passed 6-6-1967; Ord. 21-88, passed 1-3-1989) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.06 KEEPING DOWN WEEDS AND LITTER.
   (A)   Any person owning or having charge of land within the village shall
keep said property free and clear of all noxious weeds and rank vegetation on
the lots owned or controlled by him or her at least twice every year; once
between June 1 and July 1 and once between August 1 and September 1.
   (B)   Any person owning or having charge of land within the village shall
keep said property free and clear of all litter on the lots owned or controlled
by him or her at all times.
(Ord. 16-67, passed 6-6-1967; Ord. 21-88, passed 1-3-1989) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.07 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   Upon information that noxious weeds are growing on lands in the
village and are about to spread or mature seeds, the Village Council shall
cause written notice to be served on the owner or person having charge of such
land that such weeds must be cut and destroyed within five days after service
of such notice.
   (B)   Upon a finding by the Village Council that litter has been placed on
lands in the village, and has not been removed, and constitutes a detriment to
public health, the Village Council shall cause a written notice to be served
upon the owner and, if different, upon the lessee, agent or tenant having
charge of the littered land, notifying him or her that litter is on the land,
and that it must be collected and removed within 15 days after the service of
the notice.
   (C)   Said notice may be served by a member of the Village Police Department
by personally serving such owner or person having charge of such land or if
such owner of person having charge of such land is a nonresident of the village
and his or her address in known, such notice shall be sent to his or her
address by certified mail; if such person’s address is unknown, it shall be
sufficient to publish such notice once in a newspaper of general circulation in
the county.
(Ord. 16-67, passed 6-6-1967; Ord. 21-88, passed 1-3-1989)
§ 96.08 PROCEDURE WHEN OWNER FAILS TO COMPLY WITH NOTICE.
   (A)   If the owner of person having charge of such land fails to comply with
such notice within ten days after the service of such notice or after the
publication of such notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the county,
such owner or person shall be subject to the penalty as may be provided in §
96.99. In addition thereto, the Village Council may cause the noxious weeds to
be cut and destroyed or such litter removed and all expenses and labor incurred
in such operation, shall, when approved by Council, be paid out of village
funds not otherwise appropriated.
   (B)   The Village Council shall make a written return to the County Auditor
of their actions under §
96.07 and division (A) above inclusive with a statement of the charges for its
services, the amount paid for labor, the fees of the officers serving said
notices and a proper description of the premises. Such amounts, when allowed,
shall be entered upon the tax duplicate and be a lien upon such lands from and
after the date of entry and to be collected as other taxes and returned to the
village with the General Fund.
(Ord. 16-67, passed 6-6-1967; Ord. 21-88, passed 1-3-1989) Penalty, see §
96.99
NOISE
§ 96.20 REGULATION OF USE OF LOUD AMPLIFICATION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   No person operating or occupying a motor vehicle on a street, highway,
alley, parking lot or driveway shall operate or permit the operation of any
sound amplification system from within the vehicle so that the sound is plainly
audible at a distance of 50 or more feet from the vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall operate or permit the operation of any sound
amplification system so that the sound is plainly audible at a distance of 50
feet or more from the location of said sound amplification system.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PLAINLY AUDIBLE. Any sound produced by a sound amplification system which
can be heard at a distance of 50 feet or more. Measurement standards shall be
by the auditory senses, based upon direct line of sight. Word or phrases need
not be discernible and base reverberations are included.
      SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEM. Any radio, tape player, compact disc player,
loud speaker or other electronic device used for the amplification of the human
voice.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
operator was not otherwise prohibited by law from operating the sound
amplification system, and that any of the following apply:
      (1)   The system was being operated to request medical or vehicular
assistance or to warn of a hazardous road condition;
      (2)   The vehicle was an emergency or public safety vehicle;
      (3)   The vehicle was owned and operated by the village or a gas,
electric, communications or refuse company;
      (4)   The system was used for the purpose of giving instructions,
directions, talks, addresses, lectures or transmitting music to any persons or
assemblages of persons;
      (5)   The vehicle was used in authorized public activities, such as
parades, fireworks, sports events, musical productions and other activities
which have the approval of the department of the village authorized to grant
such approval.
(Ord. 17-96, passed 4-22-1996; Ord. 11-99, passed 6-14-1999; Ord. 02-18, passed
2-12-2018) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.21 NOISE LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The following acts, or the causing or permitting thereof, are declared
to be in violation of this section:
      (1)   Restriction. No person shall operate or permit the operation or
playing of any radio, television, phonographic, amplified musical instrument,
loudspeaker, music or voice reproduction device, or any device, including, but
not limited to, animals, vehicles, explosive devices and equipment, which
produces, reproduces or amplifies sound:
         (a)   In such a manner as to create a noise disturbance across a
boundary of property;
         (b)   In such a manner as to create a noise disturbance in or at a
public place; or
         (c)   In such a manner as to create a noise disturbance with willful
or wanton disregard for others.
      (2)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to the following:
         (a)   Functions specifically permitted by the Ohio Revised Code or
other village ordinances;
         (b)   Construction, repair or property maintenance (including, but not
limited to, mowers, trimmers, edgers, blowers, snow blowers, pool pumps and
power tools) when conducted between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.;
         (c)   Infrequent repair, rebuilding, reconstruction or dismantling of
any motor vehicle between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.;
         (d)   Trash collection vehicle operation;
         (e)   Emergency operations: sound generated in the performance of
emergency operations including, but not limited to, audible signal devices
which are employed as warning or alarm signals in case of fire, collision or
imminent danger;
         (f)   Sound sources typically associated with residential uses
(including, but not limited to, children at play, and air conditioners in good
working order);
         (g)   Safety, warning and alarm devices, including house and car
alarms, and other warning devices that are designed to protect health, safety
and welfare, provided such devices are not negligently maintained or operated;
         (h)   Sounds generated from public or private schools and athletic
contests or practices, and other school activities;
         (i)   Transient sounds generated by transportation including, but not
limited to, public and private airports, aircraft, railroads and other means of
public transit;
         (j)   Emergencies, involving the execution of the duties of duly
authorized governmental personnel and others providing emergency response to
the general public, including, but not limited to, sworn peace officers,
emergency personnel, utility personnel and the operation of emergency response
vehicles and equipment;
         (k)   Sounds generated from the operation of a public facility or
public use;
         (l)   Sound sources associated with agricultural operations on
agricultural land which are carried out in any manner consistent with the
practice and within standards of the agricultural industry;
         (m)   Sounds generated by church bells or chimes or other church
activities;
         (n)   Sound emanating from a civic or public function for which a
special event permit has been issued by the village;
         (o)   Any other lawful activity which constitutes protected expression
pursuant to the First Amendment of the United States Constitution, but not
amplified expression; and
         (p)   The exceptions mentioned in this section shall not be effective
if the act is determined to be a willful or wanton disregard for others.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, a NOISE DISTURBANCE means any
unreasonably loud, raucous, disturbing or unnecessary noise; and noise of such
character, intensity or duration as to disturb the peace, quiet and good order
of the municipality or which is likely to be detrimental to or cause
inconvenience or annoyance to a person of ordinary sensibilities; or any other
noise or sound created in such a manner as to disturb the peace and quiet of
residents or of a neighborhood in the municipality.
   (C)   (1)   Except for division (C)(2) below, no person shall be charged
with a violation of this section unless a minimum of two complaining parties
residing in separate residences complain about the same noise or annoyance in
the same time frame. Law enforcement officials shall record the complaining
parties’ information and include the information as a matter of course with the
filing of the complaint.
      (2)   When a violation is committed in the presence of a police officer,
such officer shall have the authority to initiate all necessary proceedings to
enforce this section.
(Ord. 06-09, passed 5-26-2009) Penalty, see §
96.99
REGULATIONS FOR THE MOWING AND MAINTENANCE OF PROPERTIES
AND ADJOINING AREAS
§ 96.35 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to beautify and preserve the appearance of
the village by requiring property owners and occupants to maintain grass lawns
at a uniform height within the boundaries of their property and on abutting
street right-of-way in order to prevent unsightly, offensive or nuisance
conditions.
(Ord. 24-13, passed 11-25-2013)
§ 96.36 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CURB, CURB LINE or CURBING. The outer boundaries of a street at the edge of
that portion of the street usually traveled by vehicular traffic.
   CUT or MOW. To mechanically maintain the growth of grass, weeds or brush at
a uniform height.
   OWNER. A person owning private property in the village and any person
occupying private property in the village.
   PARKING. The part of a street in the village not covered by a sidewalk and
lying between the lot line or property line and the curb line; or on unpaved
streets, that part of the street lying between the lot line or property line
and that portion of the street usually traveled by vehicular traffic.
(Ord. 24-13, passed 11-25-2013)
§ 96.37 CUTTING SPECIFICATIONS AND STANDARDS OF PRACTICE.
   (A)   Every owner shall cut, mow and maintain all grass, weeds and brush
upon the owner’s property and adjacent to the curb line or outer boundary of
any street, which includes the parking area abutting the owner’s property, to a
uniform height as defined in §
96.38.
   (B)   Every owner shall cut, mow and maintain all grass, weeds and brush
adjacent to the curb line, including the parking area abutting the owner’s
property, in such a manner so as to be in conformity with and at an even height
with all other grass, weeds or brush growing on the remainder of the owner’s
property.
(Ord. 24-13, passed 11-25-2013) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.38 UNIFORM HEIGHT SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Grass, weeds or brush shall be cut, mowed and maintained so as not to
exceed the following height specifications:
      (1)   Developed residential areas: not to exceed seven inches;
      (2)   Undeveloped residential areas: not to exceed seven inches;
      (3)   Business and industrial areas: not to exceed seven inches; and
      (4)   Agriculture areas: not to exceed 15 inches.
   (B)   Grass, weeds and brush which are allowed to grow in excess of the
above specified limitations are deemed to be violations of this subchapter. Any
property within the village, whether vacated or nonvacated, is required to
conform to these specifications.
(Ord. 24-13, passed 11-25-2013) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.39 PUBLICATION OF NOTICE.
   Annual spring publication of this subchapter in an official newspaper shall
serve as notice to property owners. The village will be authorized to respond
to violations without additional written notice being given; provided, however,
that the Village Administrator may, prior to the village abating the nuisance
pursuant to this notice, will attempt to provide notice to the property owner
providing a final notification that the village will take action within seven
days. Said notice shall not be a prerequisite for village action but is
proposed as a courtesy to property owners.
(Ord. 24-13, passed 11-25-2013)
§ 96.40 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   If the property owner fails to comply with this subchapter, the Council or
its appointee shall cause the property to be mowed. The fee for this service
will be set by resolution and will be assessed against the property.
(Ord. 24-13, passed 11-25-2013)
§ 96.41 ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE.
   If the property owner neglects or fails to abate as directed by this
subchapter, the village may perform the required action to abate. The Council
finds that the costs for the village to abate the nuisance herein are hereby
set at $100 per hour with a minimum charge of two hours per occurrence.
(Ord. 24-13, passed 11-25-2013) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.42 COLLECTION OF COSTS.
   The Village Fiscal Officer shall send a statement of the total expense
incurred to the property owner who has failed to abide by the publication
notice. If the amount shown by the statement has not been paid within one
month, the Fiscal Officer provide notice to the Village Council and thereafter,
the Village Council shall certify the costs to the County Auditor and such
costs shall then be collected with, and in the same manner as general property
taxes as provided by law.
(Ord. 24-13, passed 11-25-2013)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever shall violate or fail to comply with any of the provisions
contained in §§
96.01 through
96.08 shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $50. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed upon each day during or on which the violation occurs
or continues.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of §
96.20 is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the
offender has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of §
96.20, the violation is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   Parental notification: if the offender is a juvenile and is
receiving a warning for violating §
96.20, the parents of such juvenile will be contacted and informed of the
violation and warning.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates §
96.21 shall be fined $100 for the first conviction, $250 for the second
conviction within two years of the first conviction, and $500 for a third or
subsequent conviction within two years of the first conviction.
      (2)   No part of any such fine shall be suspended or otherwise reduced.
   (E)   In addition to any other assessment or costs recovered in §§
96.35 through
96.42, any person causing or maintaining a nuisance as defined by §§
96.35 through
96.42, who shall fail or refuse to abate or remove the same is in violation of
§§
96.35 through
96.42 and shall be fined not more than $100 per occurrence.
(Ord. 16-67, passed 6-6-1967; Ord. 21-88, passed 1-3-1989; Ord. 17-96, passed
4-22-1996; Ord. 11-99, passed 6-14-1999; Ord. 24-13, passed 11-25-2013; Ord.
02-18, passed 2-12-2018)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   SPECIAL EVENTS
      
111.   CABLE TELEVISION
CHAPTER 110: SPECIAL EVENTS
Section
Regulation of Special Events that Require Use of Village Property,
Village Services or Special Liquor Permits
   
110.01   Definition
   
110.02   Exceptions
   
110.03   Application for special event permit
   
110.04   Fee
   
110.05   Approval of permit
   
110.06   Reasons for denial
   
110.07   Certificate or documentation
   
110.08   Application language
 
   
110.99   Penalty
REGULATION OF SPECIAL EVENTS THAT REQUIRE USE OF VILLAGE
PROPERTY, VILLAGE SERVICES OR SPECIAL LIQUOR PERMITS
§ 110.01 DEFINITION.
   For purposes of this subchapter, a SPECIAL EVENT shall mean an activity of
any person, business, association or group that meets any one of the following
criteria:
   (A)   The activity substantially restricts the public from the normal use of
and access to all or part of a public roadway, alley, right-of-way, sidewalk,
park, pool or any other property owned or controlled by the village;
   (B)   The activity is anticipated to attract persons to a particular
location, public or private, in such numbers or concentration that special
parking, traffic, police or security measures are needed to protect the public
safety, peace and good order of the village; or
   (C)   The activity includes the sale and consumption of beer, wine or liquor
of any kind for the invitees to the event, whether on public or private
property, that necessitate the obtaining of a special or temporary liquor
permit, but if and only if consumption of any beer, wine or liquor of any kind
is anticipated to take place outside of any building or permanent structure.
(Ord. 28-02, passed 11-25-2002)
§ 110.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Any private social gathering to the extent that the same does not
involve the use of any public property or public streets; and
   (B)   Any athletic event organized or sanctioned by a public school or a
private college or university for which a schedule of such events is regularly
published.
(Ord. 28-02, passed 11-25-2002)
§ 110.03 APPLICATION FOR SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT.
   Any person, individual, business, association or group sponsoring a special
event, as defined in §
110.01, shall make application with the village for a special event permit not
less than 20 days prior to the date of the event.
(Ord. 28-02, passed 11-25-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.04 FEE.
   There shall be no fee charged for making such application.
(Ord. 28-02, passed 11-25-2002)
§ 110.05 APPROVAL OF PERMIT.
   A special event permit shall be approved by the Mayor, or the person legally
acting in the Mayor’s stead. Such approval shall be freely granted unless the
Mayor, or the person legally acting in the Mayor’s stead, finds and states in
writing, that the proposed event would create an unreasonable risk of harm to
the safety, peace or good order of the village that is incapable of a practical
solution. Such finding of an unreasonable risk must state one of the reasons
listed in §
110.06. Should the Mayor, or the person legally acting in the Mayor’s stead
make such a finding, the matter shall be referred immediately to the Council of
the village which may, by a majority vote, uphold the finding, modify the
finding, require additional matters be undertaken before approval or overrule
the finding and grant the application forthwith. It is further provided that if
the Mayor, or the person legally acting in the Mayor’s stead, fails to approve
or deny the application within seven days of the application date, such a
failure shall be deemed to be an approval by the Mayor.
(Ord. 28-02, passed 11-25-2002)
§ 110.06 REASONS FOR DENIAL.
   The reasons for denial of the permit must include one of the following:
   (A)   The applicant has made false statements on the application for the
permit;
   (B)   The applicant fails to agree to the terms or conditions of the
subchapter;
   (C)   The size or duration of the event will not allow for a practical
rerouting of traffic to maintain reasonable traffic flow;
   (D)   The size or duration of the event will cause such a diversion of
police, fire and other safety personnel as to prevent reasonable police, fire
and safety services to the village;
   (E)   The event will prevent or substantially impair access of police, fire
and safety personnel to the event site or to adjacent property; or
   (F)   The event will prevent access to public, private or business places
for an unreasonable period of time without the consent of the owners of such
private or business places.
(Ord. 28-02, passed 11-25-2002)
§ 110.07 CERTIFICATE OR DOCUMENTATION.
   (A)   Issuance of a special event permit upon application requires a
certificate or other documentation that the sponsoring person, business,
association or group has insurance in an amount not less than $1,000,000 per
occurrence for the special event with the village named as an additional
insured.
   (B)   Such insurance will be waived when the Village Council, by a majority
vote, deems that the event applied for is of such a nature that the potential
risk of harm or injury is slight or minimal.
(Ord. 28-02, passed 11-25-2002)
§ 110.08 APPLICATION LANGUAGE.
   The application for special events shall contain the following language:
“The applicant and his/her organization agrees by signature below to hold the
village harmless from any and all injury, damage or occurrence in connection
with the event applied for, and shall indemnify the Village of Bluffton, Ohio
for such occurrences at all times. The Village of Bluffton, Ohio assumes no
liability whatsoever for the event applied for.”
(Ord. 28-02, passed 11-25-2002)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, individual, business, association or group who fails to comply
with §§
110.01 through
111.08 shall, for each violation, be fined not to exceed $100.
(Ord. 28-02, passed 11-25-2002)
CHAPTER 111: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
111.01   Rule
   
111.02   Village as franchising authority
   
111.03   Public notice
   
111.04   Right to conduct public hearings
   
111.05   Purpose and intent
§ 111.01 RULE.
   The village hereby adopts a rule that it will follow the regulations
established by the FCC regarding regulation by the franchising authority of
cable television basic service and equipment rates, as contained in 47 C.F.R.
part 76, subpart N (a copy of which, as it appeared in the Federal Register of
May 21, 1993, is attached as Attachment 1 to the ordinance codified herein and
hereby incorporated by reference as if set out in full herein).
(Ord. 18-93, passed 12-7-1993)
§ 111.02 VILLAGE AS FRANCHISING AUTHORITY.
   The Council of the village is hereby deemed to be the franchising authority
for purposes of regulation pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 18-93, passed 12-7-1993)
§ 111.03 PUBLIC NOTICE.
   Whenever the cable operator (or operators) providing basic service within
and subject to regulation by the village submits for review its existing rates
for basic service and associated equipment costs, or a proposed increase in
these rates, the village shall issue public notice of such rate submittal by
posting a notice in the place used for public notices in the municipal
building, and interested parties shall be allowed to submit their views in
writing or in person according to the time schedule and procedures specified in
Attachment 2 attached to the ordinance codified herein, which is hereby
incorporated by reference as if set out in full herein. The cable operator and
all interested parties must follow the schedule and procedures of Attachment 2
attached to the ordinance codified herein or the Council may not give due
consideration to their submittals.
(Ord. 18-93, passed 12-7-1993)
§ 111.04 RIGHT TO CONDUCT PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   The Council shall have the right to conduct public hearings and receive
testimony regarding any rate proposal submitted by a cable operator and may by
motion delegate to any specified village official the right to oversee such
proceeding or to undertake any of the ministerial duties of the Council (for
example, issuing notices) regarding the review and regulation of rates under
this chapter.
(Ord. 18-93, passed 12-7-1993)
§ 111.05 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose and intent of this chapter is to enable the Council to meet the
FCC’s requirements for regulating cable television basic service and equipment
rates to the fullest extent allowed by the Act and the FCC’s regulations, and
this chapter shall be interpreted pursuant to that purpose and intent.
(Ord. 18-93, passed 12-7-1993)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
      
133.   SEX OFFENSES
      
134.   GAMBLING OFFENSES
      
135.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
      
136.   OFFENSES AGAINST JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
      
137.   WEAPONS CONTROL
      
138.   DRUG OFFENSES
      
139.   CURFEW; VANDALISM
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Application of Title XIII
   
130.02   Definitions
   
130.03   Classification of offenses
   
130.04   Common law offenses abrogated
   
130.05   Rules of construction
   
130.06   Limitation of criminal prosecutions
   
130.07   Requirements for criminal liability; voluntary intoxication
   
130.08   Culpable mental states
   
130.09   Organizational criminal liability
   
130.10   Personal accountability for organizational conduct
   
130.11   Attempt
   
130.12   Complicity
   
130.13   Presumption of innocence; proof of offense; affirmative defense
   
130.14   Battered woman syndrome
   
130.15   Delinquency adjudications deemed convictions
   
130.16   Criminal law jurisdiction
   
130.17   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property held by Police
Department
   
130.18   Imposing sentence for misdemeanor
   
130.19   Multiple sentences
   
130.20   Apprehension, detention, or arrest of persons on bond
   
130.21   Self defense: limitations on duty to retreat prior to using force
 
   
130.99   Penalty for Title XIII
Statutory reference:
   Mayor’s Court generally, see R.C. Chapter 1905
   Municipal Court generally, see R.C. Chapter 1901
   Trials, Magistrate Courts, see R.C. Chapter 2938
§ 130.01 APPLICATION OF TITLE XIII.
   (A)   Title XIII of this code of ordinances embodies and prescribes
penalties for offenses against the municipality not classifiable in previous
titles and chapters. The word “misdemeanors”, as used in this title, is not
exhaustive and does not imply that offenses found elsewhere in this code of
ordinances are not also misdemeanors and punishable as such.
   (B)   Each act or omission for which a fine, imprisonment, or both is
provided under this Title or elsewhere in this code, or each act or omission
which is declared a violation of this code, is unlawful and is hereby made a
misdemeanor. Upon conviction, the penalty or penalties so provided shall be
imposed by the court.
§ 130.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTRABAND. Any property that is illegal for a person to acquire or possess
under a statute, ordinance, or rule, or that a trier of fact lawfully
determines to be illegal to possess by reason of the property’s involvement in
an offense. The term includes but is not limited to all of the following:
      (1)   Any controlled substance, as defined in R.C. § 3719.01, or any
device or paraphernalia related thereto;
      (2)   Any unlawful gambling device or paraphernalia;
      (3)   Any dangerous ordnance or obscene material.
   DANGEROUS OFFENDER. A person who has committed an offense, whose history,
character and condition reveal a substantial risk that he or she will be a
danger to others, and whose conduct has been characterized by a pattern of
repetitive, compulsive or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to the
consequences.
   DEADLY FORCE. Any force that carries a substantial risk that it will
proximately result in the death of any person.
   FORCE. Any violence, compulsion, or constraint physically exerted by any
means upon or against a person or thing.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any of the following:
      (1)   A Sheriff, deputy sheriff, constable, police officer of a township
or joint police district, Marshal, deputy marshal, municipal police officer,
member of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under
R.C. § 3735.31(D) or state highway patrol trooper.
      (2)   An officer, agent, or employee of the state or any of its agencies,
instrumentalities, or political subdivisions, upon whom, by statute, a duty to
conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain laws is imposed and the
authority to arrest violators is conferred, within the limits of such statutory
duty and authority.
      (3)   The Mayor, in a capacity as chief conservator of the peace within
the municipality.
      (4)   A member of an auxiliary police force organized by the county,
township, or municipal law enforcement authorities, within the scope of the
member’s appointment or commission.
      (5)   A person lawfully called pursuant to R.C. § 311.07 to aid a sheriff
in keeping the peace, for the purposes and during the time when the person is
called.
      (6)   A person appointed by a Mayor pursuant to R.C. § 737.01 as a
special patrolling officer during a riot or emergency, for the purposes and
during the time when the person is appointed.
      (7)   A member of the organized militia of this state or the armed forces
of the United States, lawfully called to duty to aid civil authorities in
keeping the peace or protect against domestic violence.
      (8)   A prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, secret
service officer, or municipal prosecutor.
      (9)   A veterans’ home police officer appointed under R.C. § 5907.02.
      (10)   A member of a police force employed by a regional transit
authority under R.C. § 306.35(Y).
      (11)   A special police officer employed by a port authority under R.C. §
4582.04 or 4582.28.
      (12)   The House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms if the House of
Representatives Sergeant at Arms has arrest authority pursuant to R.C. §
101.311(E)(1) and an Assistant House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms.
      (13)   The Senate Sergeant at Arms and an Assistant Senate Sergeant at
Arms;
      (14)   A special police officer employed by a municipal corporation at a
municipal airport, or other municipal air navigation facility, that has
scheduled operations, as defined in 14 C.F.R. § 119.3, as amended, and that is
required to be under a security program and is governed by aviation security
rules of the Transportation Security Administration of the United States
Department of Transportation as provided in 49 C.F.R. parts 1542 and 1544, as
amended.
   NOT GUILTY BY REASON OF INSANITY. A person is “not guilty by reason of
insanity” relative to a charge of an offense only if the person proves, in the
manner specified in R.C. § 2901.05, that at the time of the commission of the
offense, he or she did not know, as a result of a severe mental disease or
defect, the wrongfulness of his or her acts.
   OFFENSE OF VIOLENCE.
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02, 2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.11,
2903.12, 2903.13, 2903.15, 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22, 2905.01, 2905.02,
2905.11, 2905.32, 2907.02, 2907.03, 2907.05, 2909.02, 2909.03, 2909.24,
2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2917.01, 2917.02, 2917.03, 2917.31, 2919.25,
2921.03, 2921.04, 2921.34, or 2923.161, of division (A)(1) of R.C. § 2903.34,
of division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) of R.C. § 2911.12, or of division (B)(1),
(B)(2), (B)(3) or (B)(4) of R.C. § 2919.22, or felonious sexual penetration in
violation of former R.C. § 2907.12;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States, substantially equivalent to
any section, division or offense listed in division (1) of this definition;
      (3)   An offense, other than a traffic offense, under an existing or
former municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or of the United
States, committed purposely or knowingly, and involving physical harm to
persons or a risk of serious physical harm to persons;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   PERSON.
      (1)   (a)   Subject to division (2) of this definition, as used in any
section contained in Title XIII of this code that sets forth a criminal
offense, the term includes all of the following:
            1.   An individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership and association.
            2.   An unborn human who is viable.
         (b)   As used in any section contained in Title XIII of this code that
does not set forth a criminal offense, the term includes an individual,
corporation, business trust, estate, partnership and association.
         (c)   As used in division (1)(a)2. of this definition, “unborn human”
means an individual organism of the species Homo sapiens from fertilization
until live birth. “Viable” means the stage of development of a human fetus at
which there is a realistic probability of maintaining and nourishing of a life
outside the womb with or without temporary artificial life-sustaining support.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (1)(a) of this definition, in no case
shall the portion of the definition of the term “person” that is set forth in
division (1)(a)2. of this definition be applied or construed in any section
contained in Title XIII of this code that sets forth a criminal offense in any
of the following manners:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (2)(a) of this
definition, in a manner so that the offense prohibits or is construed as
prohibiting any pregnant woman or her physician from performing an abortion
with the consent of the pregnant woman, with the consent of the pregnant woman
implied by law in a medical emergency, or with the approval of one otherwise
authorized by law to consent to medical treatment on behalf of the pregnant
woman. An abortion that violates the conditions described in the immediately
preceding sentence may be punished as a violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02,
2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.05, 2903.06, 2903.08, 2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13,
2903.14, 2919.15, 2903.21 or 2903.22, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, as applicable. An abortion that does not violate the conditions
described in the second immediately preceding sentence but that does violate
R.C. § 2919.12, 2919.13(B), 2919.151, 2919.17 or 2919.18, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, may be punished as a violation of such section,
as applicable. Consent is sufficient under this division if it is of the type
otherwise adequate to permit medical treatment to the pregnant woman, even if
it does not comply with R.C. § 2919.12.
         (b)   In a manner so that the offense is applied or is construed as
applying to a woman based on an act or omission of the woman that occurs while
she is or was pregnant and that results in any of the following:
            1.   Her delivery of a stillborn baby;
            2.   Her causing, in any other manner, the death in utero of a
viable, unborn human that she is carrying;
            3.   Her causing the death of her child who is born alive but who
dies from one or more injuries that are sustained while the child is a viable,
unborn human;
            4.   Her causing her child who is born alive to sustain one or more
injuries while the child is a viable, unborn human;
            5.   Her causing, threatening to cause, or attempting to cause, in
any other manner, an injury, illness, or other psychological illness or
condition, regardless of its duration or gravity, to a viable, unborn human
that she is carrying.
   PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS. Any injury, illness, or other physiological
impairment, regardless of its gravity or duration.
   PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY. Any tangible or intangible damage to property
that, in any degree, results in loss to its value or interferes with its use or
enjoyment. The term does not include wear and tear occasioned by normal use.
   PRIVILEGE. An immunity, license, or right conferred by law, or bestowed by
express or implied grant, or arising out of status, position, office, or
relationship, or growing out of necessity.
   PROPERTY.
      (1)   Any property, real or personal, tangible or intangible, and any
interest or license in that property. The term includes but is not limited to
cable television service, other telecommunications service, telecommunications
devices, information service, computers, data, computer software, financial
instruments associated with computers, other documents associated with
computers, or copies of the documents, whether in machine or human-readable
form, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, patents, and property protected by
a trademark, copyright or patent. “Financial instruments associated with
computers” include but are not limited to checks, drafts, warrants, money
orders, notes of indebtedness, certificates of deposit, letters of credit,
bills of credit or debit cards, financial transaction authorization mechanisms,
marketable securities, or any computer system representations of any of them.
      (2)   As used in this definition, “trade secret” has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 1333.61, and “telecommunications service” and “information service”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (3)   As used in this definition and in the definition of “contraband” in
this section, “cable television service,” “computer,” “computer network,”
“computer software,” “computer system,” “data,” and “telecommunications device”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   REPEAT OFFENDER. A person who has a history of persistent criminal activity
and whose character and condition reveal a substantial risk that he or she will
commit another offense. It is prima facie evidence that a person is a repeat
offender if any of the following applies:
      (1)   Having been convicted of one or more offenses of violence, as
defined in R.C. § 2901.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent offense of
violence;
      (2)   Having been convicted of one or more sexually oriented offenses, as
defined in R.C. § 2950.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent sexually oriented
offense;
      (3)   Having been convicted of one or more theft offenses, as defined in
R.C. § 2913.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for one or more
of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent theft offense;
      (4)   Having been convicted of one or more felony drug abuse offenses, as
defined in R.C. § 2925.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent felony drug abuse
offense;
      (5)   Having been convicted of two or more felonies, and having been
imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such offense, he or she commits a
subsequent offense;
      (6)   Having been convicted of three or more offenses of any type or
degree other than traffic offenses, alcoholic intoxication offenses, or minor
misdemeanors, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such
offense, he or she commits a subsequent offense.
   RISK. A significant possibility, as contrasted with a remote possibility,
that a certain result may occur or that certain circumstances may exist.
   SCHOOL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL ACTIVITY. Any activity held under the auspices of a board of
education of a city, local, exempted village, joint vocational, or cooperative
education school district; a governing authority of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314; a governing board of an educational
service center; or the governing body of a nonpublic school for which the State
Board of Education prescribes minimum standards under R.C. § 3301.07.
   SCHOOL BUILDING. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL BUS. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   SCHOOL PREMISES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL SAFETY ZONE. Consists of a school, school building, school premises,
school activity, and school bus.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any mental illness or condition of such gravity as would normally
require hospitalization or prolonged psychiatric treatment;
      (2)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death;
      (3)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent incapacity, whether
partial or total, or that involves some temporary, substantial incapacity;
      (4)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent disfigurement, or
that involves some temporary, serious disfigurement;
      (5)   Any physical harm that involves acute pain of such duration as to
result in substantial suffering, or that involves any degree of prolonged or
intractable pain.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY. Any physical harm to property that does
either of the following:
      (1)   Results in substantial loss to the value of the property, or
requires a substantial amount of time, effort, or money to repair or replace;
      (2)   Temporarily prevents the use or enjoyment of the property, or
substantially interferes with its use or enjoyment for an extended period of
time.
   SUBSTANTIAL RISK. A strong possibility, as contrasted with a remote or
significant possibility, that a certain result may occur or that certain
circumstances may exist.
(R.C. §§ 2901.01, 2935.36(E))
§ 130.03 CLASSIFICATION OF OFFENSES.
   As used in this Title:
   (A)   Offenses include misdemeanors of the first, second, third, and fourth
degree, minor misdemeanors, and offenses not specifically classified.
   (B)   Regardless of the penalty that may be imposed, any offense
specifically classified as a misdemeanor is a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Any offense not specifically classified is a misdemeanor if
imprisonment for not more than one year may be imposed as a penalty.
   (D)   Any offense not specifically classified is a minor misdemeanor if the
only penalty that may be imposed is one of the following:
      (1)   For an offense committed prior to January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding $100;
      (2)   For an offense committed on or after January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding $150, community service under R.C. § 2929.27(D), or a financial
sanction other than a fine under R.C. § 2929.28.
(R.C. § 2901.02)
§ 130.04 COMMON LAW OFFENSES ABROGATED.
   (A)   No conduct constitutes a criminal offense against the municipality
unless it is defined as an offense in this code.
   (B)   An offense is defined when one or more sections of this code state a
positive prohibition or enjoin a specific duty, and provide a penalty for
violation of such prohibition or failure to meet such duty.
   (C)   This section does not affect the power of a court to punish for
contempt or to employ any sanction authorized by law to enforce an order, civil
judgment or decree.
(R.C. § 2901.03)
§ 130.05 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) or (D) of this section,
sections of this code defining offenses or penalties shall be strictly
construed against the municipality and liberally construed in favor of the
accused.
   (B)   Rules of criminal procedure and sections of this code providing for
criminal procedure shall be construed so as to effect the fair, impartial,
speedy, and sure administration of justice.
   (C)   Any provision of a section of this code that refers to a previous
conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of a section of this code, the
Ohio Revised Code or a division of a section of this code or the Ohio Revised
Code shall be construed to also refer to a previous conviction of or plea of
guilty to a substantially equivalent offense under an existing or former law of
this municipality, state, another state, or the United States or under an
existing or former municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Any provision of this code that refers to a section, or to a division
of a section, of this code that defines or specifies a criminal offense shall
be construed to also refer to an existing or former law of this state, another
state, or the United States, to an existing or former municipal ordinance, or
to an existing or former division of any such existing or former law or
ordinance that defines or specifies, or that defined or specified, a
substantially equivalent offense.
(R.C. § 2901.04)
§ 130.06 LIMITATION OF CRIMINAL PROSECUTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2), (A)(3) or (A)(4) of this
section or as otherwise provided in this section, a prosecution shall be barred
unless it is commenced within the following periods after an offense is
committed:
         (a)   For a felony, six years;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor other than a minor misdemeanor, two years;
         (c)   For a minor misdemeanor, six months.
      (2)   There is no period of limitation for the prosecution of a violation
of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (B) through (J) of this
section, a prosecution of any of the following offenses shall be barred unless
it is commenced within 20 years after the offense is committed:
         (a)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.03, 2903.04, 2905.01, 2905.32,
2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.21, 2909.02, 2909.22, 2909.23, 2909.24, 2909.26,
2909.27, 2909.28, 2909.29, 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12, or 2917.02, a
violation of R.C. § 2903.11 or 2903.12 if the victim is a peace officer, a
violation of R.C. § 2903.13 that is a felony, or a violation of former R.C. §
2907.12.
         (b)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing a violation set forth in division (A)(3)(a) of this section.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (D) to (L) of this
section, a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 or a
conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in committing a
violation of either section shall be barred unless it is commenced within 25
years after the offense is committed.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) of this section,
if the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this
section has expired, prosecution shall be commenced for an offense of which an
element is fraud or breach of fiduciary duty within one year after discovery of
the offense either by an aggrieved person or by the aggrieved person’s legal
representative who is not a party to the offense.
      (2)   If the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)(3)
of this section has expired, prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 2913.49
shall be commenced within five years after discovery of the offense either by
an aggrieved person or the aggrieved person’s legal representative who is not a
party to the offense.
   (C)   (1)   If the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)
(3) of this section has expired, prosecution shall be commenced for the
following offenses during the following specified periods of time:
         (a)   For an offense involving misconduct in office by a public
servant at any time while the accused remains a public servant, or within two
years thereafter;
         (b)   For an offense by a person who is not a public servant but whose
offense is directly related to the misconduct in office of a public servant, at
any time while that public servant remains a public servant, or within two
years thereafter.
      (2)   As used in this division:
         OFFENSE IS DIRECTLY RELATED TO THE MISCONDUCT IN OFFICE OF A PUBLIC
SERVANT. The phrase includes but is not limited to a violation of R.C. §
101.71, 101.91, 121.61 or 2921.13, 102.03(F) or (H), 2921.02(A), 2921.43(A) or
(B), or 3517.13(F) or (G), that is directly related to an offense involving
misconduct in office of a public servant, or a violation of any municipal
ordinance substantially equivalent to those Ohio Revised Code sections listed
in this division (C)(2).
         PUBLIC SERVANT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.01.
   (D)   (1)   If a DNA record made in connection with the criminal
investigation of the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 is
determined to match another DNA record that is of an identifiable person and if
the time of the determination is later than 25 years after the offense is
committed, prosecution of that person for a violation of the section may be
commenced within five years after the determination is complete.
      (2)   If a DNA record made in connection with the criminal investigation
of the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 is determined to
match another DNA record that is of an identifiable person and if the time of
the determination is within 25 years after the offense is committed,
prosecution of that person for a violation of the section may be commenced
within the longer of 25 years after the offense is committed or five years
after the determination is complete.
      (3)   As used in this division, DNA RECORD has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 109.573.
   (E)   An offense is committed when every element of the offense occurs. In
the case of an offense of which an element is a continuing course of conduct,
the period of limitation does not begin to run until such course of conduct or
the accused’s accountability for it terminates, whichever occurs first.
   (F)   A prosecution is commenced on the date an indictment is returned or an
information filed, or on the date a lawful arrest without a warrant is made, or
on the date a warrant, summons, citation, or other process is issued, whichever
occurs first. A prosecution is not commenced by the return of an indictment or
the filing of an information unless reasonable diligence is exercised to issue
and execute process on the same. A prosecution is not commenced upon issuance
of a warrant, summons, citation, or other process unless reasonable diligence
is exercised to execute the same.
   (G)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the corpus
delicti remains undiscovered.
   (H)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the
accused purposely avoids prosecution. Proof that the accused departed this
municipality or conceals the accused’s identity or whereabouts is prima facie
evidence of the accused’s purpose to avoid prosecution.
   (I)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time a prosecution
against the accused based on the same conduct is pending in this state, even
though the indictment, information, or process that commenced the prosecution
is quashed or the proceedings on the indictment, information, or process are
set aside or reversed on appeal.
   (J)   The period of limitation for a violation of this Title XIII or Title
XXIX of the Ohio Revised Code that involves a physical or mental wound, injury,
disability, or condition of a nature that reasonably indicates abuse or neglect
of a child under 18 years of age or of a child with a developmental disability
or physical impairment under 21 years of age shall not begin to run until
either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The victim of the offense reaches the age of majority.
      (2)   A public children services agency, or a municipal or county peace
officer that is not the parent or guardian of the child, in the county in which
the child resides or in which the abuse or neglect is occurring or has occurred
has been notified that abuse or neglect is known, suspected, or believed to
have occurred.
   (K)   As used in this section, PEACE OFFICER has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2935.01.
   (L)   The amendments to divisions (A) and (D) of this section apply to a
violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 committed on and after July 16, 2015,
and apply to a violation of either of those sections committed prior to July
16, 2015, if prosecution for that violation was not barred under this section
as it existed on July 15, 2015.
(R.C. § 2901.13)
Statutory reference:
   Limitation for income tax violations, see R.C. § 718.12
§ 130.07 REQUIREMENTS FOR CRIMINAL LIABILITY; VOLUNTARY INTOXICATION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, a person is not
guilty of an offense unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person’s liability is based on conduct that includes either a
voluntary act, or an omission to perform an act or duty that the person is
capable of performing;
      (2)   The person has the requisite degree of culpability for each element
as to which a culpable mental state is specified by the language defining the
offense.
   (B)   When the language defining an offense does not specify any degree of
culpability, and plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict criminal
liability for the conduct described in the section, then culpability is not
required for a person to be guilty of the offense. The fact that one division
of a section plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict liability for an
offense defined in that division does not by itself plainly indicate a purpose
to impose strict criminal liability for an offense defined in other divisions
of the section that do not specify a degree of culpability.
   (C)   (1)   When language defining an element of an offense that is related
to knowledge or intent or to which mens rea could fairly be applied neither
specifies culpability nor plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict
liability, the element of the offense is established only if a person acts
recklessly.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to offenses defined
in R.C. Title XLV.
      (3)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not relieve the prosecution of
the burden of proving the culpable mental state required by any definition
incorporated into the offense.
   (D)   Voluntary intoxication may not be taken into consideration in
determining the existence of a mental state that is an element of a criminal
offense. Voluntary intoxication does not relieve a person of a duty to act if
failure to act constitutes a criminal offense. Evidence that a person was
voluntarily intoxicated may be admissible to show whether or not the person was
physically capable of performing the act with which the person is charged.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      CULPABILITY. Means purpose, knowledge, recklessness, or negligence, as
defined in R.C. § 2901.22.
      INTOXICATION. Includes but is not limited to intoxication resulting from
the ingestion of alcohol, a drug, or alcohol and a drug.
      INVOLUNTARY ACTS. Means reflexes, convulsions, body movements during
unconsciousness or sleep, and body movements that are not otherwise a product
of the actor’s volition are involuntary acts.
      POSSESSION. Means a voluntary act if the possessor knowingly procured or
received the thing possessed, or was aware of the possessor’s control of the
thing possessed for a sufficient time to have ended possession.
(R.C. § 2901.21)
§ 130.08 CULPABLE MENTAL STATES.
   (A)   A person acts purposely when it is the person’s specific intention to
cause a certain result, or, when the gist of the offense is a prohibition
against conduct of a certain nature, regardless of what the offender intends to
accomplish thereby, it is the offender’s specific intention to engage in
conduct of that nature.
   (B)   A person acts knowingly, regardless of purpose, when the person is
aware that the person’s conduct will probably cause a certain result or will
probably be of a certain nature. A person has knowledge of circumstances when
the person is aware that such circumstances probably exist. When knowledge of
the existence of a particular fact is an element of an offense, such knowledge
is established if a person subjectively believes that there is a high
probability of its existence and fails to make inquiry or acts with a conscious
purpose to avoid learning the fact.
   (C)   A person acts recklessly when, with heedless indifference to the
consequences, the person disregards a substantial and unjustifiable risk that
the person’s conduct is likely to cause a certain result or is likely to be of
a certain nature. A person is reckless with respect to circumstances when, with
heedless indifference to the consequences, the person disregards a substantial
and unjustifiable risk that such circumstances are likely to exist.
   (D)   A person acts negligently when, because of a substantial lapse from
due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that the person’s
conduct may cause a certain result or may be of a certain nature. A person is
negligent with respect to circumstances when, because of a substantial lapse
from due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that such
circumstances may exist.
   (E)   When the section defining an offense provides that negligence suffices
to establish an element thereof, then recklessness, knowledge, or purpose is
also sufficient culpability for such element. When recklessness suffices to
establish an element of an offense, then knowledge or purpose is also
sufficient culpability for such element. When knowledge suffices to establish
an element of an offense, then purpose is also sufficient culpability for such
element.
(R.C. § 2901.22)
§ 130.09 ORGANIZATIONAL CRIMINAL LIABILITY.
   (A)   An organization may be convicted of an offense under any of the
following circumstances:
      (1)   The offense is a minor misdemeanor committed by an officer, agent,
or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s office or employment, except that if the
section defining the offense designates the officers, agents, or employees for
whose conduct the organization is accountable or the circumstances under which
it is accountable, those provisions shall apply.
      (2)   A purpose to impose organizational liability plainly appears in the
section defining the offense, and the offense is committed by an officer,
agent, or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the
scope of the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s office or employment, except
that if the section defining the offense designates the officers, agents, or
employees for whose conduct the organization is accountable or the
circumstances under which it is accountable, those provisions shall apply.
      (3)   The offense consists of an omission to discharge a specific duty
imposed by law on the organization.
      (4)   If, acting with the kind of culpability otherwise required for the
commission of the offense, its commission was authorized, requested, commanded,
tolerated, or performed by the board of directors, trustees, partners, or by a
high managerial officer, agent, or employee acting in behalf of the
organization and within the scope of such a board’s or person’s office or
employment.
   (B)   If strict liability is imposed for the commission of an offense, a
purpose to impose organizational liability shall be presumed, unless the
contrary plainly appears.
   (C)   In a prosecution of an organization for an offense other than one for
which strict liability is imposed, it is a defense that the high managerial
officer, agent, or employee having supervisory responsibility over the subject
matter of the offense exercised due diligence to prevent its commission. This
defense is not available if it plainly appears inconsistent with the purpose of
the section defining the offense.
   (D)   As used in this section, ORGANIZATION means a corporation for profit
or not for profit, partnership, limited partnership, joint venture,
unincorporated nonprofit association, estate, trust, or other commercial or
legal entity. The term does not include an entity organized as or by a
governmental agency for the execution of a governmental program.
(R.C. § 2901.23)
§ 130.10 PERSONAL ACCOUNTABILITY FOR ORGANIZATIONAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   An officer, agent, or employee of an organization, as defined in R.C.
§ 2901.23, may be prosecuted for an offense committed by such organization, if
he or she acts with the kind of culpability required for the commission of the
offense, and any of the following apply:
      (1)   In the name of the organization or in its behalf, he or she engages
in conduct constituting the offense, or causes another to engage in such
conduct, or tolerates such conduct when it is of a type for which he or she has
direct responsibility;
      (2)   He or she has primary responsibility to discharge a duty imposed on
the organization by law, and such duty is not discharged.
   (B)   When a person is convicted of an offense by reason of this section, he
or she is subject to the same penalty as if he or she had acted in his or her
own behalf.
(R.C. § 2901.24)
§ 130.11 ATTEMPT.
   (A)   No person, purposely or knowingly, and when purpose or knowledge is
sufficient culpability for the commission of an offense, shall engage in
conduct that, if successful, would constitute or result in the offense.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that, in retrospect,
commission of the offense that was the object of the attempt was either
factually or legally impossible under the attendant circumstances, if that
offense could have been committed had the attendant circumstances been as the
actor believed them to be.
   (C)   No person who is convicted of committing a specific offense, of
complicity in the commission of an offense, or of conspiracy to commit an
offense, shall be convicted of an attempt to commit the same offense in
violation of this section.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
actor abandoned his or her effort to commit the offense or otherwise prevented
its commission, under circumstances manifesting a complete and voluntary
renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an attempt to commit an
offense. An attempt to commit aggravated murder, murder, or an offense for
which the maximum penalty is imprisonment for life is a felony of the first
degree, to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to commit a
drug abuse offense for which the penalty is determined by the amount or number
of unit doses of the controlled substance involved in the drug abuse offense is
an offense of the same degree as the drug abuse offense attempted would be if
that drug abuse offense had been committed and had involved an amount or number
of unit doses of the controlled substance that is within the next lower range
of controlled substance amounts than was involved in the attempt. An attempt to
commit any other offense is an offense of the next lesser degree than the
offense attempted. In the case of an attempt to commit an offense other than a
violation of R.C. Chapter 3734 that is not specifically classified, an attempt
is a misdemeanor of the first degree if the offense attempted is a felony, and
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the offense attempted is a misdemeanor.
In the case of an attempt to commit a violation of any provision of R.C.
Chapter 3734, other than R.C. § 3734.18, that relates to hazardous wastes, an
attempt is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to
commit a minor misdemeanor, or to engage in conspiracy, is not an offense under
this section.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
(R.C. § 2923.02)
Statutory reference:
   Conspiracy, see R.C. § 2923.01
   Solid and hazardous wastes, see R.C. Chapter 3734
§ 130.12 COMPLICITY.
   (A)   No person, acting with the kind of culpability required for the
commission of an offense, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Solicit or procure another to commit the offense;
      (2)   Aid or abet another in committing the offense;
      (3)   Conspire with another to commit the offense in violation of R.C. §
2923.01;
      (4)   Cause an innocent or irresponsible person to commit the offense.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that no person with
whom the accused was in complicity has been convicted as a principal offender.
   (C)   No person shall be convicted of complicity under this section unless
an offense is actually committed, but a person may be convicted of complicity
in an attempt to commit an offense in violation of R.C. § 2923.02 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   If an alleged accomplice of the defendant testifies against the
defendant in a case in which the defendant is charged with complicity in the
commission of or an attempt to commit an offense, an attempt to commit an
offense, or an offense, the court shall charge the jury in accordance with R.C.
§ 2923.03(D).
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that,
prior to the commission of or attempt to commit the offense, the actor
terminated his or her complicity, under circumstances manifesting a complete
and voluntary renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of complicity in the
commission of an offense, and shall be prosecuted and punished as if he or she
were a principal offender. A charge of complicity may be stated in terms of
this section, or in terms of the principal offense.
(R.C. § 2923.03)
Statutory reference:
   Conspiracy, see R.C. § 2923.01
§ 130.13 PRESUMPTION OF INNOCENCE; PROOF OF OFFENSE; AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE.
   (A)   Every person accused of an offense is presumed innocent until proven
guilty beyond a reasonable doubt, and the burden of proof for all elements of
the offense is upon the prosecution. The burden of going forward with the
evidence of an affirmative defense, and the burden of proof by a preponderance
of the evidence, for an affirmative defense other than self-defense, defense of
another, or defense of the accused's residence presented as described in
division (B)(1) of this section, is upon the accused.
   (B)   (1)   A person is allowed to act in self-defense, defense of another,
or defense of that person’s residence. If, at the trial of a person who is
accused of an offense that involved the person’s use of force against another,
there is evidence presented that tends to support that the accused person used
the force in self-defense, defense of another, or defense of that person’s
residence, the prosecution must prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the
accused person did not use the force in self-defense, defense of another, or
defense of that person’s residence, as the case may be.
      (2)   Subject to division (B)(3) of this section, a person is presumed to
have acted in self-defense or defense of another when using defensive force
that is intended or likely to cause death or great bodily harm to another if
the person against whom the defensive force is used is in the process of
unlawfully and without privilege to do so entering, or has unlawfully and
without privilege to do so entered, the residence or vehicle occupied by the
person using the defensive force.
      (3)   The presumption set forth in division (B)(2) of this section does
not apply if either of the following is true:
         (a)   The person against whom the defensive force is used has a right
to be in, or is a lawful resident of, the residence or vehicle.
         (b)   The person who uses the defensive force uses it while in a
residence or vehicle and the person is unlawfully, and without privilege to be,
in that residence or vehicle.
      (4)   The presumption set forth in division (B)(2) of this section is a
rebuttable presumption and may be rebutted by a preponderance of the evidence,
provided that the prosecution’s burden of proof remains proof beyond a
reasonable doubt as described in divisions (A) and (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   As part of its charge to the jury in a criminal case, the court shall
read the definitions of "reasonable doubt" and "proof beyond a reasonable
doubt", contained in division (E) of this section.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE. An affirmative defense is either of the following:
         (a)   A defense expressly designated as affirmative;
         (b)   A defense involving an excuse or justification peculiarly within
the knowledge of the accused, on which the accused can fairly be required to
adduce supporting evidence.
      DWELLING. Means a building or conveyance of any kind that has a roof over
it and that is designed to be occupied by people lodging in the building or
conveyance at night, regardless of whether the building or conveyance is
temporary or permanent or is mobile or immobile. As used in this division, a
building or conveyance includes but is not limited to an attached porch, and a
building or conveyance with a roof over it includes but is not limited to a
tent.
      RESIDENCE. Means a dwelling in which a person resides either temporarily
or permanently or is visiting as a guest.
      VEHICLE. Means a conveyance of any kind, whether or not motorized, that
is designed to transport people or property.
   (E)   "Reasonable doubt" is present when the jurors, after they have
carefully considered and compared all the evidence, cannot say they are firmly
convinced of the truth of the charge. It is a doubt based on reasonable and
common sense. Reasonable doubt is not mere possible doubt, because everything
relating to human affairs or depending on moral evidence is open to some
possible or imaginary doubt. "Proof beyond a reasonable doubt" is proof of such
character that an ordinary person would be willing to rely and act upon it in
the most important of the person's own affairs
(R.C. § 2901.05)
§ 130.14 BATTERED WOMAN SYNDROME.
   (A)   The municipality hereby declares that it recognizes both of the
following, in relation to the “battered woman syndrome”: that the syndrome
currently is a matter of commonly accepted scientific knowledge, and that the
subject matter and details of the syndrome are not within the general
understanding or experience of a person who is a member of the general populace
and are not within the field of common knowledge.
   (B)   If a person is charged with an offense involving the use of force
against another and the person, as a defense to the offense charged, raises the
affirmative defense of self defense, the person may introduce expert testimony
of the “battered woman syndrome” and expert testimony that the person suffered
from that syndrome as evidence to establish the requisite belief of an imminent
danger of death or great bodily harm that is necessary, as an element of the
affirmative defense, to justify the person’s use of force in question. The
introduction of any expert testimony under this division shall be in accordance
with the Ohio Rules of Evidence.
(R.C. § 2901.06)
§ 130.15 DELINQUENCY ADJUDICATIONS DEEMED CONVICTIONS.
   (A)   If a person is alleged to have committed an offense and if the person
previously has been adjudicated a delinquent child or juvenile traffic offender
for a violation of a law or ordinance, except as provided in division (B) of
this section, the adjudication as a delinquent child or as a juvenile traffic
offender is a conviction for a violation of the law for purposes of determining
the offense with which the person should be charged and, if the person is
convicted of or pleads guilty to an offense, the sentence to be imposed upon
the person relative to the conviction or guilty plea.
   (B)   A previous adjudication of a person as a delinquent child or juvenile
traffic offender for a violation of a law or ordinance is not a conviction for
a violation of the law or ordinance for purposes of determining any of the
following:
      (1)   Whether the person is a repeat violent offender, as defined in R.C.
§ 2929.01, or whether the person should be sentenced as a repeat violent
offender under R.C. § 2929.14(B)(2) and R.C. § 2941.149;
      (2)    Whether the person is a violent career criminal as defined in R.C.
§ 2923.132, whether the person has committed unlawful use of a weapon by a
violent career criminal in violation of R.C. § 2923.132 or should be sentenced
for that offense under that section, or whether the person should be sentenced
under R.C. § 2929.14(K) as a violent career criminal who had a firearm on or
about the person’s person or under the person’s control while committing a
violent felony offense and displayed or brandished the firearm, indicated that
the offender possessed a firearm, or used the firearm to facilitate the
offense.
(R.C. § 2901.08)
§ 130.16 CRIMINAL LAW JURISDICTION.
   (A)   A person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in this
municipality if any of the following occur:
      (1)   The person commits an offense under the laws of this municipality,
any element of which takes place in this municipality;
      (2)   While in this municipality, the person attempts to commit, or is
guilty of complicity in the commission of, an offense in another jurisdiction,
which offense is an offense under both the laws of this municipality and the
other jurisdiction, or, while in this municipality, the person conspires to
commit an offense in another jurisdiction, which offense is an offense under
both the laws of this municipality and the other jurisdiction, and a
substantial overt act in furtherance of the conspiracy is undertaken in this
municipality by the person or another person involved in the conspiracy,
subsequent to the person’s entrance into the conspiracy. In any case in which a
person attempts to commit, is guilty of complicity in the commission of, or
conspires to commit an offense in another jurisdiction as described in this
division, the person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in this
municipality for the attempt, complicity, or conspiracy, and for any resulting
offense that is committed or completed in the other jurisdiction;
      (3)   While out of this municipality, the person conspires or attempts to
commit, or is guilty of complicity in the commission of, an offense in this
municipality;
      (4)   While out of this municipality, the person omits to perform a legal
duty imposed by the laws of this municipality, which omission affects a
legitimate interest of the municipality in protecting, governing or regulating
any person, property, thing, transaction, or activity in this municipality;
      (5)   While out of this municipality, the person unlawfully takes or
retains property and subsequently brings any of the unlawfully taken or
retained property into this municipality;
      (6)   While out of this municipality, the person unlawfully takes or
entices another person and subsequently brings the other person into this
municipality;
      (7)   The person, by means of a computer, computer system, computer
network, telecommunication, telecommunications device, telecommunications
service, or information service, causes or knowingly permits any writing, data,
image or other telecommunication to be disseminated or transmitted into this
municipality in violation of the law of this state or municipality.
   (B)   In homicide, the element referred to in division (A)(1) of this
section includes the act that causes death, the physical contact that causes
death, the death itself, or any other element that is set forth in the offense
in question. If any part of the body of a homicide victim is found in this
municipality, the death is presumed to have occurred within this municipality.
   (C)   (1)   This municipality includes the land and water within its
boundaries and the air space above that land and water, with respect to which
this municipality has either exclusive or concurrent legislative jurisdiction.
Where the boundary between this municipality and another jurisdiction is
disputed, the disputed territory is conclusively presumed to be within this
municipality for purposes of this section.
      (2)   The courts of common pleas of Adams, Athens, Belmont, Brown,
Clermont, Columbiana, Gallia, Hamilton, Jefferson, Lawrence, Meigs, Monroe,
Scioto, and Washington counties have jurisdiction beyond the north or northwest
shore of the Ohio River extending to the opposite shore line, between the
extended boundary lines of any adjacent counties or adjacent state. Each of
those courts of common pleas has concurrent jurisdiction on the Ohio River with
any adjacent court of common pleas that borders on that river and with any
court of Kentucky or of West Virginia that borders on the Ohio River and that
has jurisdiction on the Ohio River under the law of Kentucky or the law of West
Virginia, whichever is applicable, or under federal law.
   (D)   When an offense is committed under the laws of this municipality, and
it appears beyond a reasonable doubt that the offense or any element of the
offense took place either in this municipality or in another jurisdiction or
jurisdictions, but it cannot reasonably be determined in which it took place,
the offense or element is conclusively presumed to have taken place in this
municipality for purposes of this section.
   (E)   When a person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in
this municipality for an offense committed or completed outside this
municipality, the person is subject to all specifications for that offense that
would be applicable if the offense had been committed within this municipality.
   (F)   Any act, conduct, or element that is a basis of a person being subject
under this section to criminal prosecution and punishment in this municipality
need not be committed personally by the person as long as it is committed by
another person who is in complicity or conspiracy with the person.
   (G)   This section shall be liberally construed, consistent with
constitutional limitations, to allow this municipality the broadest possible
jurisdiction over offenses and persons committing offenses in, or affecting,
this municipality.
   (H)   For purposes of division (A)(2) of this section, an overt act is
substantial when it is of a character that manifests a purpose on the part of
the actor that the object of the conspiracy should be completed.
   (I)   As used in this section, COMPUTER, COMPUTER SYSTEM, COMPUTER NETWORK,
INFORMATION SERVICE, TELECOMMUNICATION, TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE,
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE, DATA and WRITING have the same meanings as in R.C.
§ 2913.01.
(R.C. § 2901.11)
Statutory reference:
   State criminal law jurisdiction, see R.C. § 2901.11
§ 130.17 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED OR FORFEITED PROPERTY HELD BY POLICE
DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Safekeeping of property in custody.
      (1)   (a)   Any property that has been lost, abandoned, stolen, seized
pursuant to a search warrant, or otherwise lawfully seized or forfeited and
that is in the custody of the Police Department shall be kept safely by the
Police Department, pending the time it no longer is needed as evidence or for
another lawful purpose, and shall be disposed of pursuant to this section or
R.C. §§ 2981.12 and 2981.13.
         (b)   This section does not apply to the custody and disposal of any
of the following:
            1.   Vehicles subject to forfeiture under R.C. Title 45, except as
provided in division (B)(1)(f) of this section;
            2.   Abandoned junk motor vehicles or other property of negligible
value;
            3.   Property held by a department of rehabilitation and correction
institution that is unclaimed, that does not have an identified owner, that the
owner agrees to dispose of, or that is identified by the department as having
little value;
            4.   Animals taken, and devices used in unlawfully taking animals,
under R.C. § 1531.20;
            5.   Controlled substances sold by a peace officer in the
performance of the officer’s official duties under R.C. § 3719.141;
            6.   Property recovered by a township law enforcement agency under
R.C. §§ 505.105 to 505.109;
            7.   Property held and disposed of under an ordinance of the
municipality or under R.C. §§ 737.29 to 737.33, except that if the municipality
has received notice of a citizens’ reward program as provided in division (B)
(5) of this section and disposes of property under an ordinance shall pay 25%
of any moneys acquired from any sale or auction to the citizens’ reward
program.
      (2)   (a)   The Police Department shall adopt and comply with a written
internal control policy that does all of the following:
            1.   Provides for keeping detailed records as to the amount of
property acquired by the Police Department and the date property was acquired;
            2.   Provides for keeping detailed records of the disposition of
the property, which shall include but not be limited to both of the following:
               a.   The manner in which it was disposed, the date of
disposition, detailed financial records concerning any property sold, and the
name of any person who received the property. The record shall not identify or
enable identification of the individual officer who seized any item of
property.
               b.   An itemized list of the specific expenditures made with
amounts that are gained from the sale of the property and that are retained by
the agency, including the specific amount expended on each expenditure, except
that the policy shall not provide for or permit the identification of any
specific expenditure that is made in an ongoing investigation.
            3.   Complies with R.C. § 2981.13 if the Police Department has a
Law Enforcement Trust Fund or similar fund created under that section.
         (b)   The records kept under the internal control policy shall be open
to public inspection during the Police Department’s regular business hours. The
policy adopted under this section is a public record open for inspection under
R.C. § 149.43.
      (3)   The Police Department, with custody of property to be disposed of
under this section or R.C. §§ 2981.12 or 2981.13, shall make a reasonable
effort to locate persons entitled to possession of the property, to notify them
of when and where it may be claimed, and to return the property to them at the
earliest possible time. In the absence of evidence identifying persons entitled
to possession, it is sufficient notice to advertise in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county and to briefly describe the nature of the property in
custody and inviting persons to view and establish their right to it.
      (4)   As used in this section:
         CITIZENS’ REWARD PROGRAM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 9.92.
         LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. Includes correctional institutions.
         TOWNSHIP LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. Means an organized police department
of a township, a township police district, a joint police district, or the
office of a township constable.
(R.C. § 2981.11)
   (B)   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property.
      (1)   Unclaimed or forfeited property in the custody of the Police
Department, other than property described in division (A)(1)(b) of this
section, shall be disposed of by order of any court of record that has
territorial jurisdiction over the municipality, as follows:
         (a)   Drugs shall be disposed of pursuant to R.C. § 3719.11 or placed
in the custody of the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States for
disposal or use for medical or scientific purposes under applicable federal
law.
         (b)   Firearms and dangerous ordnance suitable for police work may be
given to a law enforcement agency for that purpose. Firearms suitable for
sporting use or as museum pieces or collectors’ items may be sold at public
auction pursuant to division (B)(2) of this section. The Police Department may
sell other firearms and dangerous ordnance to a federally licensed firearms
dealer in a manner that the court considers proper. The Police Department shall
destroy any firearms or dangerous ordnance not given to a law enforcement
agency or sold or shall send them to the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation for destruction by the Bureau.
         (c)   Obscene materials shall be destroyed.
         (d)   Beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol seized from a person who
does not hold a permit issued under R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303 or otherwise
forfeited to the state for an offense under R.C. § 4301.45 or R.C. § 4301.53
shall be sold by the Division of Liquor Control if the Division determines that
it is fit for sale or shall be placed in the custody of the Investigations Unit
in the Ohio Department of Public Safety and be used for training relating to
law enforcement activities. The Ohio Department of Public Safety, with the
assistance of the Division of Liquor Control, shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 to provide for the distribution to state or local law
enforcement agencies upon their request. If any tax imposed under R.C. Title 43
has not been paid in relation to the beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol, any
moneys acquired from the sale shall first be used to pay the tax. All other
money collected under this division (B)(1)(d) shall be paid into the State
Treasury. Any beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol that the Division
determines to be unfit for sale shall be destroyed.
         (e)   Money received by an inmate of a correctional institution from
an unauthorized source or in an unauthorized manner shall be returned to the
sender, if known, or deposited in the Inmates’ Industrial and Entertainment
Fund of the institution if the sender is not known.
         (f)   1.   Any mobile instrumentality forfeited under R.C. Chapter
2981 may be given to the law enforcement agency that initially seized the
mobile instrumentality for use in performing its duties, if the agency wants
the mobile instrumentality. The agency shall take the mobile instrumentality
subject to any security interest or lien on the mobile instrumentality.
            2.   Vehicles and vehicle parts forfeited under R.C. §§ 4549.61 to
4549.63 may be given to a law enforcement agency for use in performing its
duties. Those parts may be incorporated into any other official vehicle. Parts
that do not bear vehicle identification numbers or derivatives of them may be
sold or disposed of as provided by rules of the Director of Public Safety.
Parts from which a vehicle identification number or derivative of it has been
removed, defaced, covered, altered, or destroyed and that are not suitable for
police work or incorporation into an official vehicle shall be destroyed and
sold as junk or scrap.
         (g)   Computers, computer networks, computer systems, and computer
software suitable for police work may be given to a law enforcement agency for
that purpose or disposed of under division (B)(2) of this section.
         (h)   Money seized in connection with a violation of R.C. § 2905.32,
2907.21, or 2907.22 shall be deposited in the Victims of Human Trafficking Fund
created by R.C. § 5101.87.
      (2)   Unclaimed or forfeited property that is not described in division
(B)(1) of this section or division (A)(1)(b) of this section, with court
approval, may be used by the law enforcement agency in possession of it. If it
is not used by the agency, it may be sold without appraisal at a public auction
to the highest bidder for cash or disposed of in another manner that the court
considers proper.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(5) of this section
and after compliance with division (B)(4) of this section when applicable, any
moneys acquired from the sale of property disposed of pursuant to this section
shall be placed in the General Revenue Fund of the state, or the General Fund
of the municipality.
      (4)   If the property was in the possession of the Police Department in
relation to a delinquent child proceeding in a juvenile court, 10% of any
moneys acquired from the sale of property disposed of under this section shall
be applied to one or more community addiction services providers, as defined in
R.C. § 5119.01. A juvenile court shall not specify a services provider, except
as provided in this division, unless the services provider is in the same
county as the court or in a contiguous county. If no services provider is
located in any of those counties, the juvenile court may specify a services
provider anywhere in Ohio. The remaining 90% of the proceeds or cash shall be
applied as provided in division (B)(3) of this section.
      (5)   (a)   If the Board of County Commissioners recognizes a citizens’
reward program under R.C. § 9.92, the Board shall notify the Police Department
of the recognition by filing a copy of its resolution conferring that
recognition with the Police Department. When the Board recognizes a citizens’
reward program and the county includes a part, but not all, of the territory of
the municipality, the Board shall so notify the Police Department of the
recognition of the citizens’ reward program only if the county contains the
highest percentage of the municipality’s population.
         (b)   Upon being so notified, the Police Department shall pay 25% of
any forfeited proceeds or cash derived from each sale of property disposed of
pursuant to this section to the citizens’ reward program for use exclusively to
pay rewards. No part of the funds may be used to pay expenses associated with
the program. If a citizens’ reward program that operates in more than one
county or in another state in addition to this state receives funds under this
section, the funds shall be used to pay rewards only for tips and information
to law enforcement agencies concerning offenses committed in the county from
which the funds were received.
      (6)   Any property forfeited under R.C. Chapter 2981 not be used to pay
any fine imposed upon a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty to an
underlying criminal offense or a different offense arising out of the same
facts and circumstances.
      (7)   Any moneys acquired from the sale of personal effects, tools, or
other property seized because the personal effects, tools, or other property
were used in the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2905.32, 2907.21, or
2907.22 or derived from the proceeds of the commission of a violation of R.C. §
2905.32, 2907.21, or 2907.22 and disposed of pursuant to this division (B)
shall be placed in the Victims of Human Trafficking Fund created by R.C. §
5101.87.
(R.C. § 2981.12)
   (C)   Disposition of contraband, proceeds, or instrumentalities. Except as
otherwise provided in R.C. § 2981.13, property ordered forfeited as contraband,
proceeds, or an instrumentality pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2981 shall be disposed
of, used, or sold pursuant to division (B) of this section or R.C. § 2981.12.
If the property is to be sold under division (B) of this section or R.C. §
2981.12, the prosecutor shall cause notice of the proposed sale to be given in
accordance with law.
(R.C. § 2981.13(A))
Statutory reference:
   Forfeiture of property generally, see R.C. Chapter 2981
§ 130.18 IMPOSING SENTENCE FOR MISDEMEANOR.
   (A)   (1)   Unless a mandatory jail term is required to be imposed by R.C. §
1547.99(G), 4510.14(B), or 4511.19(G), or any other provision of the Ohio
Revised Code, or any municipal ordinance, a court that imposes a sentence under
this chapter upon an offender for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor has
discretion to determine the most effective way to achieve the purposes and
principles of sentencing set forth in §
130.99(B).
      (2)   Unless a specific sanction is required to be imposed or is
precluded from being imposed by the section setting forth an offense or the
penalty for an offense or by any provision of §
130.99 or 133.99 of this code or R.C. §§ 2929.23 through 2929.28, a court that
imposes a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor may impose on the
offender any sanction or combination of sanctions under §
130.99(C) through (G). The court shall not impose a sentence that imposes an
unnecessary burden on local government resources.
   (B)   (1)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, the
court shall consider all of the following factors:
         (a)   The nature and circumstances of the offense or offenses;
         (b)   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense
or offenses indicate that the offender has a history of persistent criminal
activity and that the offender’s character and condition reveal a substantial
risk that the offender will commit another offense;
         (c)   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense
or offenses indicate that the offender’s history, character, and condition
reveal a substantial risk that the offender will be a danger to others and that
the offender’s conduct has been characterized by a pattern of repetitive,
compulsive, or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to the
consequences;
         (d)   Whether the victim’s youth, age, disability, or other factor
made the victim particularly vulnerable to the offense or made the impact of
the offense more serious;
         (e)   Whether the offender is likely to commit future crimes in
general, in addition to the circumstances described in divisions (B)(1)(b) and
(B)(1)(c) of this section;
         (f)   Whether the offender has an emotional, mental, or physical
condition that is traceable to the offender’s service in the armed forces of
the United States and that was a contributing factor in the offender’s
commission of the offense or offenses;
         (g)   The offender’s military service record.
      (2)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, in
addition to complying with division (B)(1) of this section, the court may
consider any other factors that are relevant to achieving the purposes and
principles of sentencing set forth in §
130.99(B).
   (C)   Before imposing a jail term as a sentence for a misdemeanor, a court
shall consider the appropriateness of imposing a community control sanction or
a combination of community control sanctions under §
130.99(D), (E), (F), and (G). A court may impose the longest jail term
authorized under §
130.99(C) only upon offenders who commit the worst forms of the offense or upon
offenders whose conduct and response to prior sanctions for prior offenses
demonstrate that the imposition of the longest jail term is necessary to deter
the offender from committing a future crime.
   (D)   (1)   A sentencing court shall consider any relevant oral or written
statement made by the victim, the defendant, the defense attorney, or the
prosecuting authority regarding sentencing for a misdemeanor. This division
does not create any rights to notice other than those rights authorized by R.C.
Chapter 2930.
      (2)   At the time of sentencing for a misdemeanor or as soon as possible
after sentencing, the court shall notify the victim of the offense of the
victim’s right to file an application for an award of reparations pursuant to
R.C. §§ 2743.51 through 2743.72.
(R.C. § 2929.22)
§ 130.19 MULTIPLE SENTENCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, R.C. § 2929.14(C),
or R.C. § 2971.03(D) or (E), a prison term, jail term, or sentence of
imprisonment shall be served concurrently with any other prison term, jail
term, or sentence of imprisonment imposed by a court of this municipality, this
state, another state, or the United States. Except as provided in division (B)
(2) of this section, a jail term or sentence of imprisonment for misdemeanor
shall be served concurrently with a prison term or sentence of imprisonment for
felony served in a state or federal correctional institution.
   (B)   (1)   A jail term or sentence of imprisonment for a misdemeanor shall
be served consecutively to any other prison term, jail term, or sentence of
imprisonment when the trial court specifies that it is to be served
consecutively or when it is imposed for a misdemeanor violation of R.C. §
2907.322, 2921.34 or 2923.131. When consecutive sentences are imposed for
misdemeanors under this division, the term to be served is the aggregate of the
consecutive terms imposed, except that the aggregate term to be served shall
not exceed 18 months.
      (2)   A jail term or sentence of imprisonment imposed for a misdemeanor
violation of R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.14, 4510.16, 4510.21, or 4511.19, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be served consecutively to
a prison term that is imposed for a felony violation of R.C. § 2903.06,
2903.07, 2903.08 or 4511.19 or a felony violation of R.C. § 2903.04 involving
the operation of a motor vehicle by the offender and that is served in a state
correctional institution when the trial court specifies that it is to be served
consecutively. When consecutive jail terms or sentences of imprisonment and
prison terms are imposed for one or more misdemeanors and one or more felonies
under this division, the term to be served is the aggregate of the consecutive
terms imposed, and the offender shall serve all terms imposed for a felony
before serving any term imposed for a misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2929.41)
§ 130.20 APPREHENSION, DETENTION, OR ARREST OF PERSON ON BOND.
   (A)   No person, other than a law enforcement officer, shall apprehend,
detain, or arrest a principal on bond, wherever issued, unless that person
meets all of the following criteria:
      (1)   The person is any of the following:
         (a)   Qualified, licensed, and appointed as a surety bail bond agent
under R.C. §§ 3905.83 through 3905.95;
         (b)   Licensed as a surety bail bond agent by the state where the bond
was written;
         (c)   Licensed as a private investigator under R.C. Chapter 4749;
         (d)   Licensed as a private investigator by the state where the bond
was written;
         (e)   An off-duty peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 2921.51.
      (2)   The person, prior to apprehending, detaining, or arresting the
principal, has entered into a written contract with the surety or with a
licensed surety bail bond agent appointed by the surety, which contract sets
forth the name of the principal who is to be apprehended, detained, or
arrested. For purposes of this division (A)(2), SURETY has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 3905.83.
      (3)   The person, prior to apprehending, detaining, or arresting the
principal, has notified the local law enforcement agency having jurisdiction
over the area in which such activities will be performed and has provided any
form or identification or other information requested by the law enforcement
agency.
   (B)   No person shall represent the person’s self to be a bail enforcement
agent or bounty hunter, or claim any similar title, in this municipality.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal bail bond agent
practices.
      (1)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of division (A) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of division (B) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.27)
§ 130.21 SELF DEFENSE: LIMITATIONS ON DUTY TO RETREAT PRIOR TO USING FORCE.
   (A)   As used in this section, RESIDENCE has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2901.05.
   (B)   For purposes of any section of this code that sets forth a criminal
offense, a person has no duty to retreat before using force in self-defense,
defense of another, or defense of that person's residence if that person is in
a place in which the person lawfully has a right to be.
   (C)   A trier of fact shall not consider the possibility of retreat as a
factor in determining whether or not a person who used force in self-defense,
defense of another, or defense of that person's residence reasonably believed
that the force was necessary to prevent injury, loss, or risk to life or
safety.
(R.C. § 2901.09)
§ 130.99 PENALTY FOR TITLE XIII.
   (A)   Generally. Except where otherwise specifically classified within the
body of the section of a chapter of this title, a violation of such section
shall be deemed a misdemeanor punishable upon conviction by a fine of not more
than $500, imprisonment of not more than six months, or both.
(R.C. § 715.67)
   (B)   Considerations in misdemeanor sentencing.
      (1)   A court that sentences an offender for a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, or of any
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised Code, shall be guided
by the overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing. The overriding purposes
of misdemeanor sentencing are to protect the public from future crime by the
offender and others and to punish the offender. To achieve those purposes, the
sentencing court shall consider the impact of the offense upon the victim and
the need for changing the offender’s behavior, rehabilitating the defender, and
making restitution to the victim of the offense, the public, or the victim and
the public.
      (2)   A sentence imposed for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation
of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a violation of a municipal ordinance
that is subject to division (B)(1) of this section shall be reasonably
calculated to achieve the two overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing set
forth in division (B)(1) of this section, commensurate with and not demeaning
to the seriousness of the offender’s conduct and its impact upon the victim,
and consistent with sentences imposed for similar offenses committed by similar
offenders.
      (3)   A court that imposes a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor
or minor misdemeanor violation of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a
violation of a municipal ordinance that is subject to division (B)(1) of this
section shall not base the sentence upon the race, ethnic background, gender,
or religion of the offender.
      (4)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) of this section shall not apply to any
offense that is disposed of by a traffic violations bureau of any court
pursuant to Traffic Rule 13 and shall not apply to any violation of any
provision of the Ohio Revised Code that is a minor misdemeanor and that is
disposed of without a court appearance. Divisions (B)(1) through (B)(3) of this
section do not affect any penalties established by the municipality for a
violation of its ordinances that are not substantially equivalent to a
misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised
Code.
(R.C. § 2929.21)
   (C)   Misdemeanor jail terms.
      (1)   Except as provided in §
130.18 or
133.99 of this code or R.C. § 2929.22 or 2929.23 or division (C)(5) or (C)(6)
of this section and unless another term is required or authorized pursuant to
law, if the sentencing court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a
misdemeanor elects or is required to impose a jail term on the offender
pursuant to this chapter, the court shall impose a definite jail term that
shall be one of the following:
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than 180 days;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than 90 days;
         (c)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than 60 days;
         (d)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than 30 days.
      (2)   (a)   A court that sentences an offender to a jail term under
division (C) of this section may permit the offender to serve the sentence in
intermittent confinement or may authorize a limited release of the offender as
provided in division (E)(2) of this section. The court retains jurisdiction
over every offender sentenced to jail to modify the jail sentence imposed at
any time, but the court shall not reduce any mandatory jail term.
         (b)   1.   If a prosecutor, as defined in R.C. § 2935.01, has filed a
notice with the court that the prosecutor wants to be notified about a
particular case and if the court is considering modifying the jail sentence of
the offender in that case, the court shall notify the prosecutor that the court
is considering modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case. The
prosecutor may request a hearing regarding the court’s consideration of
modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, and, if the
prosecutor requests a hearing, the court shall notify the eligible offender of
the hearing.
            2.   If the prosecutor requests a hearing regarding the court’s
consideration of modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, the
court shall hold the hearing before considering whether or not to release the
offender from the offender’s jail sentence.
      (3)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under division (C)
of this section and the court assigns the offender to a county jail that has
established a county jail industry program pursuant to R.C. § 5147.30, the
court shall specify, as part of the sentence, whether the offender may be
considered for participation in the program. During the offender’s term in the
county jail, the court retains jurisdiction to modify its specification
regarding the offender’s participation in the county jail industry program.
      (4)   If a person sentenced to a jail term pursuant to division (C) of
this section, the court may impose as part of the sentence pursuant to R.C. §
2929.28 a reimbursement sanction, and, if the local detention facility in which
the term is to be served is covered by a policy adopted pursuant to R.C. §
307.93, 341.14, 341.19, 341.21, 341.23, 753.02, 753.04, 753.16, 2301.56, or
2947.19 and R.C. § 2929.37, both of the following apply:
         (a)   The court shall specify both of the following as part of the
sentence:
            1.   If the person is presented with an itemized bill pursuant to
R.C. § 2929.37 for payment of the costs of confinement, the person is required
to pay the bill in accordance with that section.
            2.   If the person does not dispute the bill described in division
(C)(4)(a)1. of this section and does not pay the bill by the times specified in
R.C. § 2929.37, the clerk of the court may issue a certificate of judgment
against the person as described in that section.
         (b)   The sentence automatically includes any certificate of judgment
issued as described in division (C)(4)(a)2. of this section.
      (5)   If an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation
of R.C. § 4511.19(B), or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, also
is convicted of or also pleads guilty to a specification of the type described
in R.C. § 2941.1414 and if the court imposes a jail term on the offender for
the underlying offense, the court shall impose upon the offender an additional
definite jail term of not more than six months. The additional jail term shall
not be reduced pursuant to any provision of the Ohio Revised Code. The offender
shall serve the additional jail term consecutively to and prior to the jail
term imposed for the underlying offense and consecutively to any other
mandatory term imposed in relation to the offense.
      (6)   (a)   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
misdemeanor violation of R.C. § 2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241, or 2907.25, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and to a specification of the
type described in R.C. § 2941.1421 and if the court imposes a jail term on the
offender for the misdemeanor violation, the court may impose upon the offender
an additional definite jail term as follows:
            1.   Subject to division (C)(6)(a)2. of this section, an additional
definite jail term of not more than 60 days;
            2.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one or more misdemeanor or felony violations of R.C. § 2907.22,
2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241, or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and also was convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1421 regarding one or more
of those violations, an additional definite jail term of not more than 120
days.
         (b)   In lieu of imposing an additional definite jail term under
division (C)(6)(a) of this section, the court may directly impose on the
offender a sanction that requires the offender to wear a real-time processing,
continual tracking electronic monitoring device during the period of time
specified by the court. The period of time specified by the court shall equal
the duration of an additional jail term that the court could have imposed upon
the offender under division (C)(6)(a) of this section. A sanction imposed under
this division shall commence on the date specified by the court, provided that
the sanction shall not commence until after the offender has served the jail
term imposed for the misdemeanor violation of R.C. § 2907.23, 2907.24,
2907.241, or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
any residential sanction imposed for the violation under division (E) of this
section or R.C. § 2929.26. A sanction imposed under this division shall be
considered to be a community control sanction for purposes of division (D) or
this section or R.C. § 2929.25, and all provisions of this code and the Ohio
Revised Code that pertain to community control sanctions shall apply to a
sanction imposed under this division, except to the extent that they would by
their nature be clearly inapplicable. The offender shall pay all costs
associated with a sanction imposed under this division, including the cost of
the use of the monitoring device.
      (7)   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor
violation of R.C. § 2903.13 and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1423 that charges that the
victim of the violation was a woman whom the offender knew was pregnant at the
time of the violation, the court shall impose on the offender a mandatory jail
term that is a definite term of at least 30 days.
      (8)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under this division
(C), the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender and the jail
term. Upon motion of either party or upon the court’s own motion, the court, in
the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may substitute
one or more community control sanctions under division (E) or (F) of this
section for any jail days that are not mandatory jail days.
(R.C. § 2929.24)
   (D)   Misdemeanor community control sanctions.
      (1)   (a)   Except as provided in §§
130.18 and
133.99 of this code or R.C. §§ 2929.22 and 2929.23 or when a jail term is
required by law, in sentencing an offender for a misdemeanor, other than a
minor misdemeanor, the sentencing court may do either of the following:
            1.   Directly impose a sentence that consists of one or more
community control sanctions authorized by divisions (E), (F), or (G) of this
section. The court may impose any other conditions of release under a community
control sanction that the court considers appropriate. If the court imposes a
jail term upon the offender, the court may impose any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions in addition to the jail
term.
            2.   Impose a jail term under division (C) of this section from the
range of jail terms authorized under that division for the offense, suspend all
or a portion of the jail term imposed, and place the offender under a community
control sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
divisions (E), (F), or (G) of this section.
         (b)   The duration of all community control sanctions imposed upon an
offender and in effect for an offender at any time shall not exceed five years.
         (c)   At sentencing, if a court directly imposes a community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (D)
(1)(a)1. of this section, the court shall state the duration of the community
control sanctions imposed and shall notify the offender that if any of the
conditions of the community control sanctions are violated the court may do any
of the following:
            1.   Impose a longer time under the same community control sanction
if the total time under all of the offender’s community control sanctions does
not exceed the five-year limit specified in division (D)(1)(b) of this section;
            2.   Impose a more restrictive community control sanction under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, but the court is not required to
impose any particular sanction or sanctions;
            3.   Impose a definite jail term from the range of jail terms
authorized for the offense under division (C) of this section.
      (2)   If a court sentences an offender to any community control sanction
or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (D)(1)(a)1.
of this section, the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender
and the period of community control for the duration of the period of community
control. Upon the motion of either party or on the court’s own motion, the
court, in the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may
modify the community control sanctions or conditions of release previously
imposed, substitute a community control sanction or condition of release for
another community control sanction or condition of release previously imposed,
or impose an additional community control sanction or condition of release.
      (3)   (a)   If a court sentences an offender to any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, the court shall place the offender
under the general control and supervision of the court or of a department of
probation in the jurisdiction that serves the court for purposes of reporting
to the court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. If
the offender resides in another jurisdiction and a department of probation has
been established to serve the municipal court or county court in that
jurisdiction, the sentencing court may request the municipal court or the
county court to receive the offender into the general control and supervision
of that department of probation for purposes of reporting to the sentencing
court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. The
sentencing court retains jurisdiction over any offender whom it sentences for
the duration of the sanction or sanctions imposed.
         (b)   The sentencing court shall require as a condition of any
community control sanction that the offender abide by the law and not leave the
state without the permission of the court or the offender’s probation officer.
In the interests of doing justice, rehabilitating the offender, and ensuring
the offender’s good behavior, the court may impose additional requirements on
the offender. The offender’s compliance with the additional requirements also
shall be a condition of the community control sanction imposed upon the
offender.
      (4)   (a)   If the court imposing sentence upon an offender sentences the
offender to any community control sanction or combination of community control
sanctions authorized under division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, and the
offender violates any of the conditions of the sanctions, the public or private
person or entity that supervises or administers the program or activity that
comprises the sanction shall report the violation directly to the sentencing
court or to the department of probation or probation officer with general
control and supervision over the offender. If the public or private person or
entity reports the violation to the department of probation or probation
officer, the department or officer shall report the violation to the sentencing
court.
         (b)   If an offender violates any condition of a community control
sanction, the sentencing court may impose upon the violator one or more of the
following penalties:
            1.   A longer time under the same community control sanction if the
total time under all of the community control sanctions imposed on the violator
does not exceed the five-year limit specified in division (D)(1)(b) of this
section;
            2.   A more restrictive community control sanction;
            3.   A combination of community control sanctions, including a jail
term.
         (c)   If an offender was acting pursuant to R.C. § 2925.11(B)(2)(b),
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and in so doing violated
the conditions of a community control sanction based on a minor drug possession
offense, as defined in R.C. § 2925.11, the sentencing court may consider the
offender’s conduct in seeking or obtaining medical assistance for another in
good faith or for self or may consider the offender being the subject of
another person seeking or obtaining medical assistance in accordance with that
division as a mitigating factor before imposing any of the penalties described
in division (D)(4)(b) of this section.
         (d)   If the court imposes a jail term upon a violator pursuant to
division (D)(4)(b) of this section, the total time spent in jail for the
misdemeanor offense and the violation of a condition of the community control
sanction shall not exceed the maximum jail term available for the offense for
which the sanction that was violated was imposed. The court may reduce the
longer period of time that the violator is required to spend under the longer
sanction or the more restrictive sanction imposed under division (D)(4)(b) of
this section by all or part of the time the violator successfully spent under
the sanction that was initially imposed.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if an offender, for
a significant period of time, fulfills the conditions of a community control
sanction imposed pursuant to division (E), (F), or (G) of this section in an
exemplary manner, the court may reduce the period of time under the community
control sanction or impose a less restrictive community control sanction.
Fulfilling the conditions of a community control sanction does not relieve the
offender of a duty to make restitution under division (G) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.25)
   (E)   Community residential sanction.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any community residential sanction or combination of
community residential sanctions under this division (E). Community residential
sanctions include but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   A term of up to 180 days in a halfway house or a term in a
halfway house not to exceed the longest jail term available for the offense,
whichever is shorter, if the political subdivision that would have
responsibility for paying the costs of confining the offender in a jail has
entered into a contract with the halfway house for use of the facility for
misdemeanor offenders;
         (b)   If the offender is an eligible offender, as defined in R.C. §
307.932, a term in a community alternative sentencing center or district
community alternative sentencing center established and operated in accordance
with that section, in the circumstances specified in that section, with one of
the conditions of the sanction being that the offender successfully complete
the portion of the sentence to be served in the center.
      (2)   A sentence to a community residential sanction under division (E)
(1)(b) of this section shall be in accordance with R.C. § 307.932. In all other
cases, the court that sentences an offender to a community residential sanction
under this division (E) may do either or both of the following:
         (a)   Permit the offender to serve the offender’s sentence in
intermittent confinement, overnight, on weekends or at any other time or times
that will allow the offender to continue at the offender’s occupation or care
for the offender’s family;
         (b)   Authorize the offender to be released so that the offender may
seek or maintain employment, receive education or training, receive treatment,
perform community service, or otherwise fulfill an obligation imposed by law or
by the court. A release pursuant to this division shall be only for the
duration of time that is needed to fulfill the purpose of the release and for
travel that reasonably is necessary to fulfill the purposes of release.
      (3)   The court may order that a reasonable portion of the income earned
by the offender upon a release pursuant to division (E)(2) of this section be
applied to any financial sanction imposed under division (G) of this section.
      (4)   No court shall sentence any person to a prison term for a
misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor or to a jail term for a minor misdemeanor.
      (5)   If a court sentences a person who has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a misdemeanor to a community residential sanction as described in
division (E)(1) of this section, at the time of reception and at other times
the person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community
alternative sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing
center, or other place at which the offender will serve the residential
sanction determines to be appropriate, the person in charge of the operation of
the halfway house, community alternative sentencing center, district community
alternative sentencing center, or other place may cause the convicted offender
to be examined and tested for tuberculosis, HIV infection, hepatitis, including
but not limited to hepatitis A, B, and C, and other contagious diseases. The
person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community alternative
sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing center, or other
place at which the offender will serve the residential sanction may cause a
convicted offender in the halfway house, community alternative sentencing
center, district community alternative sentencing center, or other place who
refuses to be tested or treated for tuberculosis, HIV infection, hepatitis,
including but not limited to hepatitis A, B, and C, or another contagious
disease to be tested and treated involuntarily.
      (6)   The municipality may enter into a contract with a halfway house for
use of the halfway house to house misdemeanor offenders under a sanction
imposed under division (E)(1)(a) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.26)
   (F)   Nonresidential sanction where jail term is not mandatory.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any nonresidential sanction or combination of
nonresidential sanctions authorized under this division. Nonresidential
sanctions include but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   A term of day reporting;
         (b)   A term of house arrest with electronic monitoring or continuous
alcohol monitoring or both electronic monitoring and continuous alcohol
monitoring, a term of electronic monitoring or continuous alcohol monitoring
without house arrest, or a term of house arrest without electronic monitoring
or continuous alcohol monitoring;
         (c)   A term of community service of up to 500 hours for misdemeanor
of the first degree or 200 hours for a misdemeanor of the second, third, or
fourth degree;
         (d)   A term in a drug treatment program with a level of security for
the offender as determined necessary by the court;
         (e)   A term of intensive probation supervision;
         (f)   A term of basic probation supervision;
         (g)   A term of monitored time;
         (h)   A term of drug and alcohol use monitoring, including random drug
testing;
         (i)   A curfew term;
         (j)   A requirement that the offender obtain employment;
         (k)   A requirement that the offender obtain education or training;
         (l)   Provided the court obtains the prior approval of the victim, a
requirement that the offender participate in victim-offender mediation;
         (m)   If authorized by law, suspension of the offender’s privilege to
operate a motor vehicle, immobilization or forfeiture of the offender’s motor
vehicle, a requirement that the offender obtain a valid motor vehicle
operator’s license, or any other related sanction;
         (n)   A requirement that the offender obtain counseling if the offense
is a violation of R.C. § 2919.25 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance or a violation of R.C. § 2903.13 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance involving a person who was a family or household member at
the time of the violation, if the offender committed the offense in the
vicinity of one or more children who are not victims of the offense, and if the
offender or the victim of the offense is a parent, guardian, custodian, or
person in loco parentis of one or more of those children. This division does
not limit the court in requiring that the offender obtain counseling for any
offense or in any circumstance not specified in this division.
      (2)   If the court imposes a term of community service pursuant to
division (F)(1)(c) of this section, the offender may request that the court
modify the sentence to authorize the offender to make a reasonable
contribution, as determined by the court, to the general fund of the county,
municipality, or other local entity that provides funding to the court. The
court may grant the request if the offender demonstrates a change in
circumstances from the date the court imposes the sentence or that the
modification would otherwise be in the interests of justice. If the court
grants the request, the offender shall make a reasonable contribution to the
court, and the clerk of the court shall deposit that contribution into the
general fund of the county, municipality, or other local entity that provides
funding to the court. If more than one entity provides funding to the court,
the clerk shall deposit a percentage of the reasonable contribution equal to
the percentage of funding the entity provides to the court in that entity’s
general fund.
      (3)   In addition to the sanctions authorized under division (F)(1) of
this section, the court imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a
minor misdemeanor, upon an offender who is not required to serve a mandatory
jail term may impose any other sanction that is intended to discourage the
offender or other persons from committing a similar offense if the sanction is
reasonably related to the overriding purposes and principles of misdemeanor
sentencing.
      (4)   The court imposing a sentence for a minor misdemeanor may impose a
term of community service in lieu of all or part of a fine. The term of
community service imposed for a minor misdemeanor shall not exceed 30 hours.
After imposing a term of community service, the court may modify the sentence
to authorize a reasonable contribution, as determined by the court, to the
appropriate general fund as provided in division (F)(2) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.27)
   (G)   Financial sanctions.
      (1)   In addition to imposing court costs pursuant to R.C. § 2947.23, the
court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor, including a minor
misdemeanor, may sentence the offender to any financial sanction or combination
of financial sanctions authorized under this division (G). If the court in its
discretion imposes one or more financial sanctions, the financial sanctions
that may be imposed pursuant to this section include but are not limited to the
following:
         (a)   Restitution.
            1.   Unless the misdemeanor offense is a minor misdemeanor or could
be disposed of by the Traffic Violations Bureau serving the court under Traffic
Rule 13, restitution by the offender to the victim of the offender’s crime or
any survivor of the victim, in an amount based upon the victim’s economic loss.
The court may not impose restitution as a sanction pursuant to this division if
the offense is a minor misdemeanor or could be disposed of by the Traffic
Violations Bureau serving the court under Traffic Rule 13. If the court
requires restitution, the court shall order that the restitution be made to the
victim in open court or to the adult probation department that serves the
jurisdiction or the clerk of the court on behalf of the victim.
            2.   If the court imposes restitution, the court shall determine
the amount of restitution to be paid by the offender. If the court imposes
restitution, the court may base the amount of restitution it orders on an
amount recommended by the victim, the offender, a presentence investigation
report, estimates or receipts indicating the cost of repairing or replacing
property, and other information, provided that the amount the court orders as
restitution shall not exceed the amount of economic loss suffered by the victim
as a direct and proximate result of the commission of the offense. If the court
imposes restitution for the cost of accounting or auditing done to determine
the extent of economic loss, the court may order restitution for any amount of
the victim's costs of accounting or auditing provided that the amount of
restitution is reasonable and does not exceed the value of property or services
stolen or damaged as a result of the offense. If the court decides to impose
restitution, the court shall hold an evidentiary hearing on restitution if the
offender, victim, or survivor disputes the amount of restitution. If the court
holds an evidentiary hearing, at the hearing the victim or survivor has the
burden to prove by a preponderance of the evidence the amount of restitution
sought from the offender.
            3.   All restitution payments shall be credited against any
recovery of economic loss in a civil action brought by the victim or any
survivor of the victim against the offender. No person may introduce evidence
of an award of restitution under this section in a civil action for purposes of
imposing liability against an insurer under R.C. § 3937.18.
            4.   If the court imposes restitution, the court may order that the
offender pay a surcharge, of not more than 5% of the amount of the restitution
otherwise ordered, to the entity responsible for collecting and processing
restitution payments.
            5.   The victim or survivor of the victim may request that the
prosecutor in the case file a motion, or the offender may file a motion, for
modification of the payment terms of any restitution ordered. If the court
grants the motion, it may modify the payment terms as it determines
appropriate.
         (b)   Fines. A fine of the type described in divisions (G)(1)(b)1. and
(G)(1)(b)2. of this section payable to the appropriate entity as required by
law:
            1.   A fine in the following amount:
               a.   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than
$1,000;
               b.   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $750;
               c.   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $500;
               d.   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $250;
               e.   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than $150.
            2.   A state fine or cost as defined in R.C. § 2949.111.
         (c)   Reimbursement.
            1.   Reimbursement by the offender of any or all of the costs of
sanctions incurred by the government, including but not limited to the
following:
               a.   All or part of the costs of implementing any community
control sanction, including a supervision fee under R.C. § 2951.021;
               b.   All or part of the costs of confinement in a jail or other
residential facility, including but not limited to a per diem fee for room and
board, the costs of medical and dental treatment, and the costs of repairing
property damaged by the offender while confined;
               c.   All or part of the cost of purchasing and using an
immobilizing or disabling device, including a certified ignition interlock
device, or a remote alcohol monitoring device that a court orders an offender
to use under R.C. § 4510.13.
            2.   The amount of reimbursement under division (G)(1)(c)1. of this
section shall not exceed the total amount of reimbursement the offender is able
to pay and shall not exceed the actual cost of the sanctions. The court may
collect any amount of reimbursement the offender is required to pay under that
division. If the court does not order reimbursement under that division,
confinement costs may be assessed pursuant to a repayment policy adopted under
R.C. § 2929.37. In addition, the offender may be required to pay the fees
specified in R.C. § 2929.38 in accordance with that section.   
      (2)   (a)   If the court determines a hearing is necessary, the court may
hold a hearing to determine whether the offender is able to pay the financial
sanction imposed pursuant to this division (G) or court costs or is likely in
the future to be able to pay the sanction or costs.
         (b)   If the court determines that the offender is indigent and unable
to pay the financial sanction or court costs, the court shall consider imposing
and may impose a term of community service under division (F)(1) of this
section in lieu of imposing a financial sanction or court costs. If the court
does not determine that the offender is indigent, the court may impose a term
of community service under division (F)(1) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this division (G) and in
addition to imposing court costs. The court may order community service for a
minor misdemeanor pursuant to division (F)(4) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this section and in addition to
imposing court costs. If a person fails to pay a financial sanction or court
costs, the court may order community service in lieu of the financial sanction
or court costs.
      (3)   (a)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the
offender pursuant to division (G)(1)(c) of this section to pay the costs
incurred by a county pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (E), (F),
or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine offenders
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this section to the county
treasurer. The county treasurer shall deposit the reimbursements in the
county’s General Fund. The county shall use the amounts deposited in the fund
to pay the costs incurred by the county pursuant to any sanction imposed under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to
confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this
section.
         (b)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the offender
pursuant to division (G)(1)(c) of this section to pay the costs incurred by a
municipal corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (E), (F),
or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine offenders
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this section to the Fiscal
Officer. The Fiscal Officer shall deposit the reimbursements in the municipal
corporation’s General Fund. The municipal corporation shall use the amounts
deposited in the fund to pay the costs incurred by the municipal corporation
pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (E), (F), or (G) of this
section or in operating a facility used to confine offenders pursuant to a
sanction imposed under division (E) of this section.
         (c)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed pursuant to
division (G)(1)(c) of this section for the costs incurred by a private provider
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E), (F), or (G) of this section
to the provider.
      (4)   In addition to any other fine that is or may be imposed under this
division (G), the court imposing sentence upon an offender for misdemeanor
domestic violence or menacing by stalking may impose a fine of not less than
$70 nor more than $500, which shall be transmitted to the Treasurer of Ohio to
be credited to the address confidentiality program fund created by R.C. §
111.48.
      (5)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (G)(5), a
financial sanction imposed under division (G)(1) of this section is a judgment
in favor of the state or the political subdivision that operates the court that
imposed the financial sanction, and the offender subject to the financial
sanction is the judgment debtor. A financial sanction of reimbursement imposed
pursuant to division (G)(1)(c)1.a. of this section upon an offender is a
judgment in favor of the entity administering the community control sanction,
and the offender subject to the financial sanction is the judgment debtor. A
financial sanction of reimbursement imposed pursuant to division (G)(1)(c)1.b.
of this section upon an offender confined in a jail or other residential
facility is a judgment in favor of the entity operating the jail or other
residential facility, and the offender subject to the financial sanction is the
judgment debtor. A financial sanction of restitution imposed pursuant to
division (G)(1)(a) of this section is an order in favor of the victim of the
offender’s criminal act that can be collected through a certificate of judgment
as described in division (G)(5)(b)1. of this section, through execution as
described in division (G)(5)(b)2. of this section or through an order as
described in division (G)(5)(b)3. of this section and the offender shall be
considered for purposes of the collection as a judgment debtor.
         (b)   Once a financial sanction is imposed as a judgment or order
under this division, the victim, private provider, state, or political
subdivision may do any of the following:
            1.   Obtain from the clerk of the court in which the judgment was
entered a certificate of judgment that shall be in the same manner and form as
a certificate of judgment issued in a civil action;
            2.   Obtain execution of the judgment or order through any
available procedure, including any of the procedures identified in R.C. §
2929.18(D)(1) and (D)(2) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
            3.   Obtain an order for the assignment of wages of the judgment
debtor under R.C. § 1321.33 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (6)   The civil remedies authorized under division (G)(5) of this section
for the collection of the financial sanction supplement, but do not preclude,
enforcement of the criminal sentence.
      (7)   Each court imposing a financial sanction upon an offender under
this division (G) may designate the clerk of the court or another person to
collect the financial sanction. The Fiscal Officer, or another person
authorized by law or the court to collect the financial sanction may do the
following:
         (a)   Enter into contracts with one or more public agencies or private
vendors for the collection of amounts due under the sanction. Before entering
into a contract for the collection of amounts due from an offender pursuant to
any financial sanction imposed pursuant to this division (G), a court shall
comply with R.C. §§ 307.86 through 307.92.
         (b)   Permit payment of all or any portion of the sanction in
installments, by financial transaction device if the court is a county court or
a municipal court operated by a county, or by any other reasonable method, in
any time, and on any terms that the court considers just, except that the
maximum time permitted for payment shall not exceed five years. If the court is
a county court or a municipal court operated by a county, the acceptance of
payments by any financial transaction device shall be governed by the policy
adopted by the board of county commissioners of the county pursuant to R.C. §
301.28. If the court is a municipal court not operated by a county, the Fiscal
Officer may pay any fee associated with processing an electronic transfer out
of public money or may charge the fee to the offender.
         (c)   To defray administrative costs, charge a reasonable fee to an
offender who elects a payment plan rather than a lump sum payment of any
financial sanction.
      (8)   No financial sanction imposed under this division (G) shall
preclude a victim from bringing a civil action against the offender.
(R.C. § 2929.28)
   (H)   Organizational penalties.
      (1)   Regardless of the other penalties provided in this section, an
organization convicted of an offense pursuant to §
130.09 shall be fined by the court as follows:
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than $5,000;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $4,000;
         (c)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $3,000;
         (d)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $2,000;
         (e)   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than $1,000;
         (f)   For a misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more than
$2,000;
         (g)   For a minor misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more
than $1,000.
      (2)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the section defining the offense or penalty plainly indicates a
purpose to impose the penalty provided for violation upon organizations, then
such penalty shall be imposed in lieu of the penalty provided in this section.
      (3)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the penalty provided includes a higher fine than that provided
in this section, then the penalty imposed shall be pursuant to the penalty
provided for violation of the section defining the offense.
      (4)   This section does not prevent the imposition of available civil
sanctions against an organization convicted of an offense pursuant to §
130.09, either in addition to or in lieu of a fine imposed pursuant to this
section.
(R.C. § 2929.31)
Cross-reference:
   Sentencing for sexually oriented offenses; sexual predators; registration,
see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Citation issuance and limitations on arrest for minor misdemeanors, see R.C.
§ 2935.26
   Crime Victim’s Reparations Fund, see R.C. § 2929.32
   Habitual sex offender and sexual predator registration, see R.C. Chapter
2950
   Reimbursement for costs of confinement, see R.C. §§ 2929.36 et seq.
   Reports to health care licensing boards of criminal offenses, see R.C. §
2929.42
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Arson; determining property value or amount of physical harm
   
131.03   Criminal damaging or endangering; vehicular vandalism
   
131.04   Criminal mischief
   
131.05   Damaging or endangering aircraft or airport operations
   
131.06   Criminal trespass; aggravated trespass
   
131.07   Tampering with coin machines
   
131.08   Theft
   
131.09   Unauthorized use of a vehicle
   
131.10   Unauthorized use of property, including telecommunication property and
computers; possession of municipal property
   
131.11   Passing bad checks
   
131.12   Misuse of credit cards
   
131.13   Making or using slugs
   
131.14   Prima facie evidence of purpose to defraud
   
131.15   Tampering with records
   
131.16   Securing writings by deception
   
131.17   Defrauding creditors
   
131.18   Receiving stolen property
   
131.19   Value of stolen property
   
131.20   Degree of offense when certain property involved
   
131.21   Injuring vines, bushes, trees, or crops
   
131.22   Detention and arrest of shoplifters and those committing motion
picture piracy; protection of institutional property
   
131.23   Insurance fraud; workers’ compensation fraud; Medicaid fraud
   
131.24   Injury to property by hunters
   
131.25   Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental
services; evidence of lack of capacity to consent
   
131.26   Forgery of identification cards
   
131.27   Criminal simulation
   
131.28   Personating an officer
   
131.29   Trademark counterfeiting
   
131.30   Diminishing or interfering with forfeitable property
   
131.31   Recording credit card, telephone or Social Security numbers
   
131.32   Prosecutions for theft of utilities
   
131.33   Motion picture piracy
   
131.34   Railroad vandalism; criminal trespass; interference with operation of
train; grade crossing device vandalism
   
131.35   Desecration
Statutory reference:
   Cable television service devices, unauthorized sale or possession, felony,
see R.C. § 2913.041
   Deceptive acts or practices in connection with consumer transactions, see
O.A.C. Chapter 109:4-3
   Disrupting public services, felony, see R.C. § 2909.04
   E-mail advertisements, civil offenses and felony forgery offense, see R.C. §
2307.64
   E-mail spam, civil offenses and felony offenses, see R.C. § 2913.421
   Food stamps, illegal use, see R.C. § 2913.46
   Telecommunications: fraud and unlawful use of a device, felony offenses, see
R.C. §§ 2913.05 and 2913.06
   Terrorism involving agricultural products or equipment, see R.C. § 901.511
§ 131.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE DUTY SERVICE MEMBER. Any member of the armed forces of the United
States performing active duty under Title 10 of the United States Code.
   ANHYDROUS AMMONIA. A compound formed by the combination of two gaseous
elements, nitrogen and hydrogen, in the manner described below. Anhydrous
ammonia is one part nitrogen to three parts hydrogen (NH3). Anhydrous ammonia
by weight is fourteen parts nitrogen to three parts hydrogen, which is
approximately 82% nitrogen to 18% hydrogen.
   ASSISTANCE DOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
   CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE. Any services provided by or through the facilities
of any cable television system or other similar closed circuit coaxial cable
communications system, or any microwave or similar transmission service used in
connection with any cable television system or other similar closed circuit
coaxial cable communications system.
   COIN MACHINE. Any mechanical or electronic device designed to do both of the
following:
      (1)   Receive a coin or bill, or token made for that purpose;
      (2)   In return for the insertion or deposit of a coin, bill, or token,
automatically dispense property, provide a service, or grant a license.
   COMPUTER. An electronic device that performs logical, arithmetic, and memory
functions by the manipulation of electronic or magnetic impulses. The term
includes but is not limited to all input, output, processing, storage, computer
program, or communication facilities that are connected, or related, in a
computer system or network to an electronic device of that nature.
   COMPUTER CONTAMINANT. Means a computer program that is designed to modify,
damage, destroy, disable, deny or degrade access to, allow unauthorized access
to, functionally impair, record, or transmit information within a computer,
computer system, or computer network without the express or implied consent of
the owner or other person authorized to give consent and that is of a type or
kind described in divisions (1) through (4) of this definition or of a type or
kind similar to a type or kind described in divisions (1) through (4) of this
definition:
      (1)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “viruses” and
“worms” that are self- replicating or self-propagating and that are designed to
contaminate other computer programs, compromise computer security, consume
computer resources, modify, destroy, record, or transmit data, or disrupt the
normal operation of the computer, computer system, or computer network;
      (2)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “Trojans” or “Trojan
horses” that are not self-replicating or self-propagating and that are designed
to compromise computer security, consume computer resources, modify, destroy,
record, or transmit data, or disrupt the normal operation of the computer,
computer system, or computer network;
      (3)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “zombies” that are
designed to use a computer without the knowledge and consent of the owner, or
other person authorized to give consent, and that are designed to send large
quantities of data to a targeted computer network for the purpose of degrading
the targeted computer’s or network’s performance, or denying access through the
network to the targeted computer or network, resulting in what is commonly
known as “denial of service” or “distributed denial of service” attacks;
      (4)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “trap doors”, “back
doors”, or “root kits” that are designed to bypass standard authentication
software and that are designed to allow access or use of a computer without the
knowledge or consent of the owner, or other person authorized to give consent.
   COMPUTER HACKING.
      (1)   The term means any of the following:
         (a)   Gaining access or attempting to gain access to all or part of a
computer, computer system, or a computer network without express or implied
authorization with the intent to defraud or with intent to commit a crime;
         (b)   Misusing computer or network services including but not limited
to mail transfer programs, file transfer programs, proxy servers, and web
servers by performing functions not authorized by the owner of the computer,
computer system, or computer network or other person authorized to give
consent. As used in this division, “misuse of computer and network services”
includes but is not limited to the unauthorized use of any of the following:
            1.   Mail transfer programs to send mail to persons other than the
authorized users of that computer or computer network;
            2.   File transfer program services or proxy servers to access
other computers, computer systems, or computer networks;
            3.   Web servers to redirect users to other web pages or web
servers.
         (c)   1.   Subject to division (1)(c)2. of this definition, using a
group of computer programs commonly known as “port scanners” or “probes” to
intentionally access any computer, computer system, or computer network without
the permission of the owner of the computer, computer system, or computer
network or other person authorized to give consent. The group of computer
programs referred to in this division includes but is not limited to those
computer programs that use a computer network to access a computer, computer
system, or another computer network to determine any of the following: the
presence or types of computers or computer systems on a network; the computer
network’s facilities and capabilities; the availability of computer or network
services; the presence or versions of computer software including but not
limited to operating systems, computer services, or computer contaminants; the
presence of a known computer software deficiency that can be used to gain
unauthorized access to a computer, computer system, or computer network; or any
other information about a computer, computer system, or computer network not
necessary for the normal and lawful operation of the computer initiating the
access.
            2.   The group of computer programs referred to in division (1)
(c)1. of this definition does not include standard computer software used for
the normal operation, administration, management, and test of a computer,
computer system, or computer network including but not limited to domain name
services, mail transfer services, and other operating system services, computer
programs commonly called “ping”, “tcpdump”, and “traceroute” and other network
monitoring and management computer software, and computer programs commonly
knows as “nslookup” and “whois” and other systems administration computer
software.
         (d)   The intentional use of a computer, computer system, or a
computer network in a manner that exceeds any right or permission granted by
the owner of the computer, computer system, or computer network or other person
authorized to give consent.
      (2)   The term does not include the introduction of a computer
contaminant, as defined in this section, into a computer, computer system,
computer program, or computer network.
   COMPUTER NETWORK. A set of related and remotely-connected computers and
communication facilities that includes more than one computer system that has
the capability to transmit among the connected computers and communication
facilities through the use of computer facilities.
   COMPUTER PROGRAM. An ordered set of data representing coded instructions or
statements that, when executed by a computer, causes the computer to process
data.
   COMPUTER SERVICES. Includes but is not limited to the use of a computer
system, computer network, computer program, data that is prepared for computer
use, or data that is contained within a computer system or computer network.
   COMPUTER SOFTWARE. Computer programs, procedures, and other documentation
associated with the operation of a computer system.
   COMPUTER SYSTEM. A computer and related devices, whether connected or
unconnected, including but not limited to data input, output, and storage
devices, data communications links, and computer programs and data that make
the system capable of performing specified special purpose data processing
tasks.
   COUNTERFEIT TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. A telecommunications device that,
alone or with another telecommunications device, has been altered, constructed,
manufactured, or programmed to acquire, intercept, receive, or otherwise
facilitate the use of a telecommunications service or information service
without the authority or consent of the provider of the telecommunications
service or information service. The phrase includes but is not limited to a
clone telephone, clone microchip, tumbler telephone, or tumbler microchip; a
wireless scanning device capable of acquiring, intercepting, receiving, or
otherwise facilitating the use of telecommunications service or information
service without immediate detection; or a device, equipment, hardware, or
software designed for, or capable of, altering or changing the electronic
serial number in a wireless telephone.
   CREATE A SUBSTANTIAL RISK OF SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO ANY PERSON. Includes
the creation of a substantial risk of serious physical harm to any emergency
personnel.
   CREDIT CARD. Includes but is not limited to a card, code, device, or other
means of access to a customer’s account for the purpose of obtaining money,
property, labor, or services on credit, or for initiating an electronic fund
transfer at a point-of-sale terminal, an automated teller machine, or a cash
dispensing machine. It also includes a county procurement card issued under
R.C. § 301.29.
   DANGEROUS DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DANGEROUS ORDNANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
   DATA. A representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts, or
instructions that are being or have been prepared in a formalized manner and
that are intended for use in a computer, computer system, or computer network.
   DECEPTION. To knowingly deceive another or cause another to be deceived by
any false or misleading representation, by withholding information, by
preventing another from acquiring information, or by any other conduct, act, or
omission that creates, confirms, or perpetuates a false impression in another,
including a false impression as to law, value, state of mind, or other
objective or subjective fact.
   DEFRAUD. To knowingly obtain, by deception, some benefit for oneself or
another, or to knowingly cause, by deception, some detriment to another.
   DEPRIVE. To do any of the following:
      (1)   To withhold property of another permanently, or for a period that
appropriates a substantial portion of its value or use, or with purpose to
restore it only upon payment of a reward or other consideration;
      (2)   To dispose of property so as to make it unlikely that the owner
will recover it;
      (3)   To accept, use, or appropriate money, property, or services, with
purpose not to give proper consideration in return for the money, property, or
services, and without reasonable justification or excuse for not giving proper
consideration.
   DISABLED ADULT. A person who is 18 years of age or older and has some
impairment of body or mind that makes the person unable to work at any
substantially remunerative employment that the person otherwise would be able
to perform and that will, with reasonable probability, continue for a period of
at least 12 months without any present indication of recovery from the
impairment, or who is 18 years of age or older and has been certified as
permanently and totally disabled by an agency of this state or the United
States that has the function of so classifying persons.
   DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   ELDERLY PERSON. A person who is 65 years of age or older.
   ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER. Has the same meaning as in 92 Stat. 3728, 15
U.S.C. § 1693a, as amended.
   EMERGENCY PERSONNEL. Means any of the following persons:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 2935.01;
      (2)   A member of a fire department or other firefighting agency of a
municipal corporation, township, township fire district, joint fire district,
other political subdivision, or combination of political subdivisions;
      (3)   A member of a private fire company, as defined in R.C. § 9.60, or a
volunteer firefighter;
      (4)    A member of a joint ambulance district or joint emergency medical
services district;
      (5)   An emergency medical technician-basic, emergency medical
technician-intermediate, emergency medical technician-paramedic, ambulance
operator, or other member of an emergency medical service that is owned or
operated by a political subdivision or a private entity;
      (6)   The State Fire Marshal, the Chief Deputy State Fire Marshal, or an
assistant state fire marshal;
      (7)   A fire prevention officer of a political subdivision or an arson,
fire, or similar investigator of a political subdivision.
   FEDERALLY-LICENSED FIREARMS DEALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5502.63.
   FIREARM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
   FORGE. To fabricate or create, in whole or in part and by any means, any
spurious writing, or to make, execute, alter, complete, reproduce, or otherwise
purport to authenticate any writing, when the writing in fact is not
authenticated by that conduct.
   GAIN ACCESS. To approach, instruct, communicate with, store data in,
retrieve data from, or otherwise make use of any resources of a computer,
computer system, or computer network, or any cable service or cable system both
as defined in R.C. § 2913.04.
   INFORMATION SERVICE.
      (1)   Subject to division (2) of this definition, the offering of a
capability for generating, acquiring, storing, transforming, processing,
retrieving, utilizing, or making available information via telecommunications,
including but not limited to electronic publishing.
      (2)   The term does not include any use of a capability of a type
described in division (1) of this definition for the management, control, or
operation of a telecommunications system or the management of a
telecommunications service.
   INTERNET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 341.42.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   OCCUPIED STRUCTURE. Means any house, building, outbuilding, watercraft,
aircraft, railroad car, truck, trailer, tent, or other structure, vehicle, or
shelter, or any portion thereof, to which any of the following applies:
      (1)   It is maintained as a permanent or temporary dwelling, even though
it is temporarily unoccupied and whether nor not any person is actually
present;
      (2)   At the time, it is occupied as the permanent or temporary
habitation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present;
      (3)   At the time, it is specially adapted for the overnight
accommodation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present;
      (4)   At the time, any person is present or likely to be present in it.
   OWNER. Unless the context requires a different meaning, any person, other
than the actor, who is the owner of, who has possession or control of, or who
has any license or interest in property or services, even though the ownership,
possession, control, license, or interest is unlawful.
   POLICE DOG OR HORSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.321.
   POLITICAL SUBDIVISION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2744.01.
   RENTED PROPERTY. Personal property in which the right of possession and use
of the property is for a short and possibly indeterminate term in return for
consideration; the rentee generally controls the duration of possession of the
property within any applicable minimum or maximum term; and the amount of
consideration is generally determined by the duration of possession of the
property.
   SERVICES. Includes labor, personal services, professional services, rental
services, public utility services including wireless service as defined in R.C.
§ 128.01(F)(1), common carrier services, and food, drink, transportation,
entertainment, and cable television services and, for purposes of R.C. §
2913.04 or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, includes cable
services as defined in that section.
   SLUG. An object that, by virtue of its size, shape, composition, or other
quality, is capable of being inserted or deposited in a coin machine as an
improper substitute for a genuine coin, bill, or token made for that purpose.
   STATE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2744.01.
   TELECOMMUNICATION. The origination, emission, dissemination, transmission,
or reception of data, images, signals, sounds, or other intelligence or
equivalence or intelligence of any nature over any communications system by any
method, including but not limited to a fiber optic, electronic, magnetic,
optical, digital or analog method.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Any instrument, equipment, machine, or other
device that facilitates telecommunication, including but not limited to a
computer, computer network, computer chip, computer circuit, scanner,
telephone, cellular telephone, pager, personal communications device,
transponder, receiver, radio, modem, or device that enables the use of a modem.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. The providing, allowing, facilitating, or
generating of any form of telecommunication through the use of a
telecommunications device over a telecommunications system.
   THEFT OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12, 2911.13,
2911.31, 2911.32, 2913.02, 2913.03, 2913.04, 2913.041, 2913.11, 2913.21,
2913.31, 2913.32, 2913.33, 2913.34, 2913.40, 2913.42, 2913.43, 2913.44,
2913.45, 2913.47, 2913.48, former R.C. § 2913.47 or 2913.48, or R.C. § 2913.51,
2915.05, or 2921.41;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
section listed in division (1) of this definition, or a violation of R.C. §
2913.41, 2913.81 or 2915.06 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or the United States involving robbery, burglary,
breaking and entering, theft, embezzlement, wrongful conversion, forgery,
counterfeiting, deceit, or fraud;
      (4)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing any offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   UTTER. To issue, publish, transfer, use, put or send into circulation,
deliver, or display.
   WRITING. Any computer software, document, letter, memorandum, note, paper,
plate, data, film, or other thing having in or upon it any written, type-
written, or printed matter, and any token, stamp, seal, credit card, badge,
trademark, label, or other symbol of value, right, privilege, license, or
identification.
(R.C. §§ 2909.01, 2913.01)
§ 131.02 ARSON; DETERMINING PROPERTY VALUE OR AMOUNT OF PHYSICAL HARM.
   (A)   No person, by means of fire or explosion, shall knowingly do any of
the following:
      (1)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
property of another without the other person’s consent;
      (2)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
property of the offender or another, with purpose to defraud;
      (3)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to the
statehouse or a courthouse, school building, or other building or structure
that is owned or controlled by the state, any political subdivision, or any
department, agency, or instrumentality of the state or a political subdivision,
and that is used for public purposes;
      (4)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm, through the
offer or the acceptance of an agreement for hire or other consideration, to any
property of another without the other person’s consent or to any property of
the offender or another with purpose to defraud;
      (5)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any park,
preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over land, forest, timberland,
greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is owned or controlled by
another person, the state, or a political subdivision without the consent of
the other person, the state, or the political subdivision;
      (6)   With purpose to defraud, cause, or create a substantial risk of,
physical harm to any park, preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over
land, forest, timberland, greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is
owned or controlled by the offender, another person, the state, or a political
subdivision.
   (B)   No person, by means of fire or explosion, shall knowingly do any of
the following:
      (1)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
structure of another that is not an occupied structure;
      (2)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm, through the
offer or the acceptance of an agreement for hire or other consideration, to any
structure of another that is not an occupied structure;
      (3)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
structure that is not an occupied structure and that is in or on any park,
preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over land, forest, timberland,
greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is owned or controlled by
another person, the state, or a political subdivision.
   (C)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(1)
or (B)(2) of this section that the defendant acted with the consent of the
other person.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(3) of
this section that the defendant acted with the consent of the other person, the
state, or the political subdivision.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of arson.
      (2)   A violation of division (A)(1) or (B)(1) of this section is one of
the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(2)(b) of this
section, a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         (b)   If the value of the property or the amount of the physical harm
involved is $1,000 or more, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (3)   A violation of division (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), (A)(5), (A)(6), (B)
(2) or (B)(3) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2909.03)
   (E)   Determining property value or amount of physical harm.
      (1)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or amount of physical harm involved in a violation of division (A)(1)
or (B)(1) of this section:
         (a)   If the property is an heirloom, memento, collector’s item,
antique, museum piece, manuscript, document, record, or other thing that is
either irreplaceable or is replaceable only on the expenditure of substantial
time, effort, or money, the value of the property or the amount of physical
harm involved is the amount that would compensate the owner for its loss.
         (b)   If the property is not covered under division (B)(1)(a) of this
section, and the physical harm is such that the property can be restored
substantially to its former condition, the amount of physical harm involved is
the reasonable cost of restoring the property.
         (c)   If the property is not covered under division (B)(1)(a) of this
section, and the physical harm is such that the property cannot be restored
substantially to its former condition, the value of the property, in the case
of personal property, is the cost of replacing the property with new property
of like kind and quality, and in the case of real property or real property
fixtures, is the difference in the fair market value of the property
immediately before and immediately after the offense.
      (2)   As used in this section, FAIR MARKET VALUE has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 2913.61.
      (3)   Prima facie evidence of the value of property, as provided in R.C.
§ 2913.61(D), may be used to establish the value of property pursuant to this
section.
(R.C. § 2909.11(B) - (D))
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated arson, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.02
   Arson offender registration, see R.C. §§ 2909.13, 2909.14 and 2909.15
   Convicted arsonist to make restitution to public agency, see R.C. § 2929.71
§ 131.03 CRIMINAL DAMAGING OR ENDANGERING; VEHICULAR VANDALISM.
   (A)   Criminal damaging or endangering.
      (1)   No person shall cause or create a substantial risk of physical harm
to any property of another without the other person’s consent:
         (a)   Knowingly, by any means; or
         (b)   Recklessly, by means of fire, explosion, flood, poison gas,
poison, radioactive material, caustic or corrosive material, or other
inherently dangerous agency or substance.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of criminal damaging
or endangering, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If violation of this
division (A) creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging
or endangering is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the property involved
in a violation of this division (A) is an aircraft, an aircraft engine,
propeller, appliance, spare part, or any other equipment or implement used or
intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and if the violation
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging or endangering
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the property
involved in a violation of this division (A) is an aircraft, an aircraft
engine, propeller, appliance, spare part, or any other equipment or implement
used or intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and if the
violation creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person or if the
property involved in a violation of this division (A) is an occupied aircraft,
criminal damaging or endangering is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2909.06)
   (B)   Vehicular vandalism.
      (1)   As used in this division (B):
         ALLEY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
         HIGHWAY. Means any highway as defined in R.C. § 4511.01 or any lane,
road, street, alley, bridge, or overpass.
         STREET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
         VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
         VESSEL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1546.01.
         WATERS IN THIS STATE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1546.01.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any
object at, onto, or in the path of any of the following:
         (a)   Any vehicle on a highway;
         (b)   Any boat or vessel on any of the waters in this state.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of vehicular
vandalism. Except as otherwise provided in this division (B)(3), vehicular
vandalism is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation of this
division (B) creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person or the
violation of this division (B) causes serious physical harm to property,
vehicular vandalism is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
If the violation of this division (B) causes physical harm to any person or
serious physical harm to any person, vehicular vandalism is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.09)
Statutory reference:
   Disrupting public services, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.04
   Railroad grade crossing device vandalism, see R.C. § 2909.101
   Railroad vandalism, see R.C. § 2909.10
   Vandalism, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.05
§ 131.04 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with the either of the following:
         (a)   The property of another;
         (b)   One’s own residential real property with the purpose to decrease
the value of or enjoyment of the residential real property, if both of the
following apply:
            1.   The residential real property is subject to a mortgage.
            2.   The person has been served with a summons and complaint in a
pending residential mortgage loan foreclosure action relating to that real
property. As used in this division, “pending” includes the time between
judgment entry and confirmation of sale.
      (2)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of property of
another, employ a tear gas device, stink bomb, smoke generator, or other device
releasing a substance that is harmful or offensive to persons exposed, or that
tends to cause public alarm;
      (3)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with a bench mark, triangulation
station, boundary marker, or other survey station, monument, or marker;
      (4)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with any safety device, the property of
another, or the property of the offender when required or placed for the safety
of others, so as to destroy or diminish its effectiveness or availability for
its intended purpose;
      (5)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of the property
of another, set a fire on the land of another or place personal property that
has been set on fire on the land of another, which fire or personal property is
outside and apart from any building, other structure, or personal property that
is on that land;
      (6)   Without privilege to do so, and with intent to impair the
functioning of any computer, computer system, computer network, computer
software, or computer program, knowingly do any of the following:
         (a)   In any manner or by any means, including but not limited to
computer hacking, alter, damage, destroy, or modify a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software, or computer program or data
contained in a computer, computer system, computer network, computer software,
or computer program;
         (b)   Introduce a computer contaminant into a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software, or computer program.
      (7)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly destroy or improperly tamper
with a critical infrastructure facility.
   (B)   As used in this section:
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2911.21.
      IMPROPERLY TAMPER. Means to change the physical location or the physical
condition of the property.
      SAFETY DEVICE. Means any fire extinguisher, fire hose, or fire axe, or
any fire escape, emergency exit, or emergency escape equipment, or any life
line, life-saving ring, life preserver, or life boat or raft, or any alarm,
light, flare, signal, sign, or notice intended to warn of danger or emergency,
or intended for other safety purposes, or any guard railing or safety
barricade, or any traffic sign or signal, or any railroad grade crossing sign,
signal, or gate, or any first aid or survival equipment, or any other device,
apparatus, or equipment intended for protecting or preserving the safety of
persons or property.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal mischief,
and shall be punished as provided in division (C)(2), (C)(3), or (C)(4) of this
section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the third degree. Except as otherwise provided
in this division, if the violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section creates a risk of physical harm to any person,
criminal mischief committed in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3),
(A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
property involved in the violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section is an aircraft, an aircraft engine, propeller,
appliance, spare part, fuel, lubricant, hydraulic fluid, any other equipment,
implement, or material used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft, or any cargo carried or intended to be carried in an aircraft and if
the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or if the
aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief committed in
violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the value of the computer, computer system, computer
network, computer software, computer program, or data involved in the violation
of division (A)(6) of this section or the loss to the victim resulting from the
violation is $1,000 or more, or if the computer, computer system, computer
network, computer software, computer program, or data involved in the violation
of division (A)(6) is used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft and the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or
if the aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Criminal mischief committed in violation of division (A)(7) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C> § 2909.07)
§ 131.05 DAMAGING OR ENDANGERING AIRCRAFT OR AIRPORT OPERATIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AIR GUN. Means a hand pistol or rifle that propels its projectile by
means of releasing compressed air, carbon dioxide, or other gas.
      AIRPORT OPERATIONAL SURFACE. Means any surface of land or water that is
developed, posted, or marked so as to give an observer reasonable notice that
the surface is designed and developed for the purpose of storing, parking,
taxiing, or operating aircraft, or any surface of land or water that is
actually being used for any of those purposes.
      FIREARM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
      SPRING-OPERATED GUN. Means a hand pistol or rifle that propels a
projectile not less than four or more than five millimeters in diameter by
means of a spring.
   (B)   No person shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly throw an object at, or drop an object upon, any moving
aircraft.
      (2)   Knowingly shoot with a bow and arrow, or knowingly discharge a
firearm, air gun, or spring-operated gun, at or toward any aircraft.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly or recklessly shoot with a bow and arrow, or
shall knowingly or recklessly discharge a firearm, air gun, or spring-operated
gun, upon or over any airport operational surface. This division does not apply
to the following:
      (1)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or of the
United States, or a law enforcement officer, authorized to discharge firearms
and acting within the scope of his or her duties.
      (2)   A person who, with the consent of the owner or operator of the
airport operational surface or the authorized agent of either, is lawfully
engaged in any hunting or sporting activity or is otherwise lawfully
discharging a firearm.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of endangering
aircraft, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation creates any risk
of physical harm to any person, or if the aircraft that is the subject of the
violation is occupied, endangering aircraft is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of endangering
airport operations, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the violation
creates a risk of physical harm to any person or substantial risk of serious
harm to any person, endangering airport operations is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. In addition to any other penalty or sanction
imposed for the violation, the hunting license or permit of a person who
violates division (C) of this section while hunting shall be suspended or
revoked pursuant to R.C. § 1533.68.
(R.C. § 2909.08(A) - (E))
§ 131.06 CRIMINAL TRESPASS; AGGRAVATED TRESPASS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another;
      (2)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, the
use of which is lawfully restricted to certain persons, purposes, modes, or
hours, when the offender knows the offender is in violation of any such
restriction or is reckless in that regard;
      (3)   Recklessly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, as
to which notice against unauthorized access or presence is given by actual
communication to the offender, or in a manner prescribed by law, or by posting
in a manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential
intruders, or by fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to restrict
access;
      (4)   Being on the land or premises of another, negligently fail or
refuse to leave upon being notified by signage posted in a conspicuous place or
otherwise being notified to do so by the owner or occupant, or the agent or
servant of either;
      (5)   Knowingly enter or remain on a critical infrastructure facility.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the land or
premises involved was owned, controlled, or in custody of a public agency.
   (C)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the offender was
authorized to enter or remain on the land or premises involved, when the
authorization was secured by deception.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal trespass.
Criminal trespass in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Criminal trespass in
violation of division (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28, if the person, in committing the
violation of this section, used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-
purpose vehicle, the court shall impose a fine of two times the usual amount
imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to two or more violations of this section, R.C. § 2911.21 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and the offender, in committing each violation,
used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle, the court,
in addition to or independent of all other penalties imposed for the violation,
may impound the certificate of registration of that snowmobile or off-highway
motorcycle or the certificate of registration and license plate of that all-
purpose vehicle for not less than 60 days. In such a case, R.C. § 4519.47
applies.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, if the
offender, in committing the violation of this section, used an all-purpose
vehicle, the Clerk of the Court shall pay the fine imposed pursuant to this
section to the State Recreational Vehicle Fund created by R.C. § 4519.11.
   (F)   As used in divisions (A) through (E) of this section:
      ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLE, OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE, and SNOWMOBILE. Have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4519.01.
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Means:
         (a)   One of the following, if completely enclosed by a fence or other
physical barrier that is obviously designed to exclude intruders, or if clearly
marked with signs that are reasonably likely to come to the attention of
potential intruders and that indicate entry is forbidden without site
authorization:
            1.   A petroleum or alumina refinery;
            2.   An electric generating facility, substation, switching
station, electrical control center, or electric transmission and distribution
lines and associated equipment;
            3.   A chemical, polymer, or rubber manufacturing facility;
            4.   A water intake structure, water treatment facility, waste
water facility, drainage facility, water management facility, or any similar
water or sewage treatment system and its water and sewage piping;
            5.   A natural gas company facility or interstate natural gas
pipeline, including a pipeline interconnection, a natural gas compressor
station and associated facilities, city gate or town border station, metering
station, above-ground piping, regulator station, valve site, delivery station,
fabricated assembly, or any other part of a natural gas storage facility
involved in the gathering, storage, transmission, or distribution of gas;
            6.   A telecommunications central switching office or remote
switching facility or an equivalent network facility that serves a similar
purpose;
            7.   Wireline or wireless telecommunications infrastructure,
including telecommunications towers and telephone poles and lines, including
fiber optic lines;
            8.   A port, trucking terminal, or other freight transportation
facility;
            9.   A gas processing plant, including a plant used in the
processing, treatment, or fractionation of natural gas or natural gas liquids;
            10.   A transmission facility used by a federally licensed radio or
television station;
            11.   A steel-making facility that uses an electric arc furnace to
make steel;
            12.   A facility identified and regulated by the United States
Department of Homeland Security's Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards
Program under 6 C.F.R. part 27;
            13.   A dam that is regulated by the state or federal government;
            14.   A crude oil or refined products storage and distribution
facility, including valve sites, pipeline interconnections, pump station,
metering station, below- or above-ground pipeline, or piping and truck loading
or off-loading facility;
            15.   A video service network and broadband infrastructure,
including associated buildings and facilities, video service headends, towers,
utility poles, and utility lines such as fiber optic lines. As used in this
division, "video service network" has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
            16.   Any above-ground portion of an oil, gas, hazardous liquid or
chemical pipeline, tank, or other storage facility;
            17.   Any above-ground portion of a well, well pad, or production
operation;
            18.   A laydown area or construction site for pipe and other
equipment intended for use on an interstate or intrastate natural gas or crude
oil pipeline;
            19.   Any mining operation, including any processing equipment,
batching operation, or support facility for that mining operation.
         (b)   With respect to a video service network or broadband or wireless
telecommunications infrastructure, the above-ground portion of a facility
installed in a public right-of-way on a utility pole or in a conduit;
         (c)   Any railroad property;
         (d)   An electronic asset of any of the following:
            1.   An electric light company that is a public utility under R.C.
§ 4905.02;
            2.   An electric cooperative, as defined in R.C. § 4928.01;
            3.   A municipal electric utility, as defined in R.C. § 4928.01;
            4.   A natural gas company that is a public utility under R.C. §
4905.02;
            5.   A telephone company that is a public utility under R.C. §
4905.02;
            6.   A video service provider, including a cable operator, as those
terms are defined in R.C. § 1332.21.
      ELECTRONIC ASSET. Includes, but is not limited to, the hardware,
software, and data of a programmable electronic device; all communications,
operations, and customer data networks; and the contents of those data
networks.
      LAND or PREMISES. Includes any land, building, structure, or place
belonging to, controlled by, or in custody of another, and any separate
enclosure or room, or portion thereof.
      PRODUCTION OPERATION, WELL, and WELL PAD. Have the same meanings as in
R.C. § 1509.01.
(R.C. § 2911.21)
   (G)   Aggravated trespass.
      (1)   (a)   No person shall enter or remain on the land or premises of
another with purpose to commit on that land or those premises a misdemeanor,
the elements of which involve causing physical harm to another person or
causing another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to
that person.
         (b)   No person shall enter or remain on a critical infrastructure
facility with purpose to destroy or tamper with the facility.
      (2)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of aggravated trespass.
Aggravated trespass in violation of division (G)(1)(a) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Aggravated trespass in violation of division
(G)(1)(b) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (3)   As used in this division (G), CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 2911.21.
(R.C. § 2911.211)
   (H)   Criminal trespass on a place of public amusement.
      (1)   As used in this division (H), PLACE OF PUBLIC AMUSEMENT means a
stadium, theater, or other facility, whether licensed or not, at which a live
performance, sporting event, or other activity takes place for entertainment of
the public and to which access is made available to the public, regardless of
whether admission is charged.
      (2)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly enter or
remain on any restricted portion of a place of public amusement and, as a
result of that conduct, interrupt or cause the delay of the live performance,
sporting event, or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement
after a printed written notice has been given as provided in division (H)(4)(a)
of this section that the general public is restricted from access to that
restricted portion of the place of public amusement. A restricted portion of a
place of public amusement may include but is not limited to a playing field, an
athletic surface, or a stage located at the place of public amusement.
      (3)   An owner or lessee of a place of public amusement, an agent of the
owner or lessee, or a performer or participant at a place of public amusement
may use reasonable force to restrain and remove a person from a restricted
portion of the place of public amusement if the person enters or remains on the
restricted portion of the place of public amusement and, as a result of that
conduct, interrupts or causes the delay of the live performance, sporting
event, or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement. This
division does not provide immunity from criminal liability for any use of force
beyond reasonable force by an owner or lessee of a place of public amusement,
an agent of either the owner or lessee, or a performer or participant at a
place of public amusement.
      (4)   (a)   Notice has been given that the general public is restricted
from access to a portion of a place of public amusement if a printed written
notice of the restricted access has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at
the entrance to that portion of the place of public amusement. If a printed
written notice is posted or exhibited as described in this division regarding a
portion of a place of public amusement, in addition to that posting or
exhibition, notice that the general public is restricted from access to that
portion of the place of public amusement also may be given, but is not required
to be given, by either of the following means:
            1.   By notifying the person personally, either orally or in
writing, that access to that portion of the place of public amusement is
restricted;
            2.   By broadcasting over the public address system of the place of
public amusement an oral warning that access to that portion of the place of
public amusement is restricted.
         (b)   If notice that the general public is restricted from access to a
portion of a place of public amusement is provided by the posting or exhibition
of a printed written notice as described in division (H)(4)(a) of this section,
the municipality, in a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (H)(2)
of this section, is not required to prove that the defendant received actual
notice that the general public is restricted from access to a portion of a
place of public amusement.
      (5)   (a)   Whoever violates division (H)(2) of this section is guilty of
criminal trespass on a place of public amusement, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
         (b)   In addition to any jail term, fine, or other sentence, penalty,
or sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to division (H)(5)(a) of this
section, a court may require an offender who violates this section to perform
not less than 30 and not more than 120 hours of supervised community service
work.
(R.C. § 2911.23)
Cross-reference:
   Violation of protection orders, see §
135.23
§ 131.07 TAMPERING WITH COIN MACHINES.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to commit theft or to defraud, shall knowingly
enter, force an entrance into, tamper with, or insert any part of an instrument
into any coin machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with coin
machines, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of this section or of any theft offense as
defined in R.C. § 2913.01, tampering with coin machines is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2911.32)
§ 131.08 THEFT.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to deprive the owner of property or services,
shall knowingly obtain or exert control over either the property or services in
any of the following ways:
      (1)   Without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give
consent;
      (2)   Beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of the owner or
person authorized to give consent;
      (3)   By deception;
      (4)   By threat;
      (5)   By intimidation.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of theft. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, a violation of this section is petty theft, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If any of the following criteria are met, then
a violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law:
      (1)   If the value of the property or services is $1,000 or more;
      (2)   If the property stolen is any of the property listed in R.C. §
2913.71;
      (3)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person, disabled adult,
active duty service member, or spouse of an active duty service member;
      (4)   If the property stolen is a firearm or dangerous ordnance;
      (5)   If the property stolen is a motor vehicle;
      (6)   If the property stolen is any dangerous drug, or if the offender
previously has been convicted of a felony drug abuse offense;
      (7)   If the property stolen is a police dog or horse or an assistance
dog and the offender knows or should know that the property stolen is a police
dog or horse or an assistance dog;
      (8)   If the property stolen is anhydrous ammonia; or
      (9)    If the property stolen is a special purchase article as defined in
R.C. § 4737.04 or is a bulk merchandise container as defined in R.C. §
4737.012.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties described in division (B) of this
section, if the offender committed the violation by causing a motor vehicle to
leave the premises of an establishment at which gasoline is offered for retail
sale without the offender making full payment for gasoline that was dispensed
into the fuel tank of the motor vehicle or into another container, the court
may do one of the following:
      (1)   Unless division (C)(2) of this section applies, suspend for not
more than six months the offenders driver’s license, probationary driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or
nonresident operating privilege;
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s license, probationary driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or nonresident
operating privilege has previously been suspended pursuant to division (C)(1)
of this section, or any other substantially equivalent state or local law,
impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s license, permit, or privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7), provided that the suspension
shall be at least six months;
      (3)   The court, in lieu of suspending the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, probationary driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or nonresident operating privilege pursuant to division (C)
(1) or (C)(2) of this section, instead may require the offender to perform
community service for a number of hours determined by the court.
   (D)   In addition to the penalties described in division (B) of this
section, if the offender committed the violation by stealing rented property or
rental services, the court may order that the offender make restitution
pursuant to R.C. § 2929.18 or R.C. § 2929.28. Restitution may include, but is
not limited to, the cost of repairing or replacing the stolen property, or the
cost of repairing the stolen property and any loss of revenue resulting from
deprivation of the property due to theft of rental services that is less than
or equal to the actual value of the property at the time it was rented.
Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental services shall
be determined pursuant to the provisions of R.C. § 2913.72.
   (E)   The sentencing court that suspends an offender’s license, permit, or
nonresident operating privilege under division (C) of this section may grant
the offender limited driving privileges during the period of the suspension in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 4510.
(R.C. § 2913.02)
Statutory reference:
   Felony theft provisions, see R.C. § 2913.02(B)
§ 131.09 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF A VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorcycle, motorboat, or other motor-propelled vehicle without the consent of
the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorboat, or other motor- propelled vehicle without the consent of the owner
or person authorized to give consent, and either remove it from this state, or
keep possession of it for more than 48 hours.
   (C)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section:
      (1)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor, though mistaken,
reasonably believed that he or she was authorized to use or operate the
property.
      (2)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor reasonably believed
that the owner or person empowered to give consent would authorize the actor to
use or operate the property.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unauthorized use of a
vehicle.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (D)(1), a violation
of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled adult and if the victim
incurs a loss as a result of the violation, a violation of division (A) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.03)
Statutory reference:
   Theft offense involving a motor vehicle, offender to pay towing and storage
fees, see R.C. § 2913.82
§ 131.10 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PROPERTY, INCLUDING TELECOMMUNICATION PROPERTY AND
COMPUTERS; POSSESSION OF MUNICIPAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly use or operate the property of another
without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (B)   No person, in any manner and by any means, including but not limited
to computer hacking, shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
or cause access to be gained to any computer, computer system, computer
network, cable service, cable system, telecommunications device,
telecommunications service, or information service without the consent of, or
beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of, the owner of the
computer, computer system, computer network, cable service, cable system,
telecommunications device, telecommunications service, or information service
or other person authorized to give consent.
   (C)   Except as permitted under R.C. § 5503.101, no person shall knowingly
gain access to, attempt to gain access to, cause access to be granted to, or
disseminate information gained from access to the law enforcement automated
database system created pursuant to R.C. § 5503.10 without the consent of, or
beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of, the chair of the Law
Enforcement Automated Data System Steering Committee.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
cause access to be granted to, or disseminate information gained from access to
the Ohio law enforcement gateway established and operated pursuant to R.C. §
109.57(C)(1) without the consent of, or beyond the scope of the express or
implied consent of, the Superintendent of the Bureau of Criminal Identification
and Investigation.
   (E)   The affirmative defenses contained in R.C. § 2913.03(C) are
affirmative defenses to a charge under this section.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of property. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
unauthorized use of property is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (1)   If unauthorized use of property is committed for the purpose of
devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to obtain property or services,
unauthorized use of property is whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided below, unauthorized use of property
is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the value of the property or services or the loss to the
victim is $1,000 or more, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (2)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, unauthorized use of property is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of computer, cable, or telecommunication property, a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (H)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of the law enforcement automated database system, a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of the Ohio law enforcement gateway, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      CABLE OPERATOR. Means any person or group of persons that does either of
the following:
         (a)   Provides cable service over a cable system and directly through
one or more affiliates owns a significant interest in that cable system;
         (b)   Otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any
arrangement, the management and operation of a cable system.
      CABLE SERVICE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming or
of information that a cable operator makes available to all subscribers
generally;
         (b)   Subscriber interaction, if any, that is required for the
selection or use of video programming or of information that a cable operator
makes available to all subscribers generally, both as described in division (a)
of this definition;
         (c)   Any cable television service.
      CABLE SYSTEM. Means any facility, consisting of a set of closed
transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception, and control
equipment that is designed to provide cable service that includes video
programming and that is provided to multiple subscribers within a community.
The term does not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any facility that serves only to retransmit the television
signals of one or more television broadcast stations;
         (b)   Any facility that serves subscribers without using any public
right-of-way;
         (c)   Any facility of a common carrier that, under 47 U.S.C. § 522(7)
(c), is excluded from the term “cable system” as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(7);
         (d)   Any open video system that complies with 47 U.S.C. § 573;
         (e)   Any facility of any electric utility used solely for operating
its electric utility system.
(R.C. § 2913.04)
   (K)   Possession of municipal property.
      (1)   No person shall, without being authorized, have in his or her
control or possession any equipment, tools, implements or other property
belonging to the municipality.
(R.C. § 5589.12)
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (K) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
Statutory reference:
   Telecommunications: fraud and unlawful use of a device, felony offenses, see
R.C. §§ 2913.05 and 2913.06
§ 131.11 PASSING BAD CHECKS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CHECK. Includes any form of debit from a demand deposit account,
including but not limited to any of the following:
         (a)   A check, bill of exchange, draft, order of withdrawal, or
similar negotiable or non- negotiable instrument;
         (b)   An electronic check, electronic transaction, debit card
transaction, check card transaction, substitute check, web check, or any form
of automated clearing house transaction.
      ISSUE A CHECK. Means causing any form of debit from a demand deposit
account.
   (B)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall issue or transfer or cause
to be issued or transferred a check or other negotiable instrument, knowing
that it will be dishonored or knowing that a person has ordered or will order
stop payment on the check or other negotiable instrument.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, a person who issues or transfers a check
or other negotiable instrument is presumed to know that it will be dishonored
if either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The drawer has no account with the drawee at the time of issue or
the stated date, whichever is later.
      (2)   The check or other negotiable instrument was properly refused
payment for insufficient funds upon presentment within 30 days after issue or
the stated date, whichever is later, and the liability of the drawer, indorser,
or any party who may be liable thereon is not discharged by payment or
satisfaction within ten days after receiving notice of dishonor.
   (D)   In determining the value of the payment for purposes of division (E)
of this section, the court may aggregate all checks and other negotiable
instruments that the offender issued or transferred or caused to be issued or
transferred in violation of division (B) of this section within a period of 180
consecutive days.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of passing bad checks. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, passing bad checks is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the check or checks or other negotiable instrument or
instruments are issued or transferred to a single vendor or single other person
for the payment of $1,000 or more, or if the check or checks or other
negotiable instrument or instruments are issued or transferred to multiple
vendors or persons for the payment of $1,500 or more, passing bad checks is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.11)
§ 131.12 MISUSE OF CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Practice deception for the purpose of procuring the issuance of a
credit card, when a credit card is issued in actual reliance thereon;
      (2)   Knowingly buy or sell a credit card from or to a person other than
the issuer;
      (3)   As an officer, employee, or appointee of a political subdivision or
as a public servant as defined under R.C. § 2921.01, knowingly misuse a credit
card account held by a political subdivision.
   (B)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Obtain control over a credit card as security for a debt;
      (2)   Obtain property or services by the use of a credit card, in one or
more transactions, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the card
has expired or been revoked, or was obtained, is retained, or is being used in
violation of law;
      (3)   Furnish property or services upon presentation of a credit card,
knowing that the card is being used in violation of law;
      (4)   Represent or cause to be represented to the issuer of a credit card
that property or services have been furnished, knowing that the representation
is false.
   (C)   No person, with purpose to violate this section, shall receive,
possess, control, or dispose of a credit card.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misuse of credit cards.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section, a
violation of division (A), (B)(1), or (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division or division (D)(3) of
this section, a violation of division (B)(2), (B)(3), or (B)(4) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the cumulative retail value of the
property and services involved in one or more violations of division (B)(2),
(B)(3), or (B)(4) of this section which violations involve one or more credit
card accounts and occur within a period of 90 consecutive days commencing on
the date of the first violation, is $1,000 or more, misuse of credit cards is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, and if the offense involves a violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of
this section, misuse of credit cards is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.21)
§ 131.13 MAKING OR USING SLUGS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Insert or deposit a slug in a coin machine, with purpose to
defraud;
      (2)   Make, possess, or dispose of a slug, with purpose of enabling
another to defraud by inserting or depositing it in a coin machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or using slugs, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2913.33)
§ 131.14 PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE OF PURPOSE TO DEFRAUD.
   In a prosecution of a person for a theft offense that alleges that the
person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she was facilitating a
fraud, hired or rented an aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat,
sailboat, camper, trailer, horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, kept
or operated any of the same that has been hired or rented, or engaged
accommodations at a hotel, motel, inn, campground, or other hostelry, it is
prima facie evidence of purpose to defraud if the person did any of the
following:
   (A)   Used deception to induce the rental agency to furnish the person with
the aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat, sailboat, camper, trailer,
horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, or used deception to induce the
hostelry to furnish the person with accommodations;
   (B)   Hired or rented any aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat,
sailboat, camper, trailer, horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, or
engaged accommodations, knowing that he or she is without sufficient means to
pay the hire or rental;
   (C)   Absconded without paying the hire or rental;
   (D)   Knowingly failed to pay the hire or rental as required by the contract
of hire or rental, without reasonable excuse for the failure;
   (E)   Knowingly failed to return hired or rented property as required by the
contract of hire or rental, without reasonable excuse for the failure.
(R.C. § 2913.41)
§ 131.15 TAMPERING WITH RECORDS.
   (A)   No person, knowing that he or she has no privilege to do so, and with
purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is facilitating a fraud, shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Falsify, destroy, remove, conceal, alter, deface, or mutilate any
writing, computer software, data, or record;
      (2)   Utter any writing or record, knowing it to have been tampered with
as provided in division (A)(1) of this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with records.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if the
offense does not involve data or computer software, tampering with records is
whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   If division (B)(1)(b) of this section does not apply, it is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the writing or record is a will unrevoked at the time of the
offense, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if the
offense involves a violation of division (A) of this section involving data or
computer software, tampering with records is whichever of the following is
applicable:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this
section, it is a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         (b)   If the value of the data or computer software involved in the
offense or the loss to the victim is $1,000 or more or if the offense is
committed for the purpose of devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to
obtain property or services and the value of the property or services or the
loss to the victim is $7,500 or more, it is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the writing, data, computer software, or record is kept by or
belongs to a local, state, or federal governmental entity, it is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.42)
§ 131.16 SECURING WRITINGS BY DECEPTION.
   (A)   No person, by deception, shall cause another to execute any writing
that disposes of or encumbers property, or by which a pecuniary obligation is
incurred.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of securing writings by
deception. Except as otherwise provided in this division, securing writings by
deception is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property or
the obligation involved is $1,000 or more, securing writings by deception is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate to state law. If the victim of the
offense is an elderly person, disabled adult, active duty service member, or
spouse of an active duty service member, securing writings by deception is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.43)
§ 131.17 DEFRAUDING CREDITORS.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud one or more of his or her
creditors, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Remove, conceal, destroy, encumber, convey, or otherwise deal with
any of his or her property;
      (2)   Misrepresent or refuse to disclose to a fiduciary appointed to
administer or manage his or her affairs or estate, the existence, amount, or
location of any of his or her property, or any other information regarding the
property which he or she is legally required to furnish to the fiduciary.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of defrauding creditors.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, defrauding creditors is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property involved is
$1,000 or more, defrauding creditors is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.45)
§ 131.18 RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall receive, retain, or dispose of property of another
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the property has been
obtained through commission of a theft offense.
   (B)   It is not a defense to a charge of receiving stolen property in
violation of this section that the property was obtained by means other than
through the commission of a theft offense if the property was explicitly
represented to the accused person as being obtained through the commission of a
theft offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of receiving stolen property.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, receiving stolen property is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If any of the following criteria are met, then
a violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law:
      (1)   The value of the property involved is $1,000 or more;
      (2)   The property involved is any of the property listed in R.C. §
2913.71;
      (3)   The property involved is a firearm or dangerous ordnance, as
defined in R.C. § 2923.11;
      (4)   The property involved is a motor vehicle as defined in R.C. §
4501.01;
      (5)   The property involved is any dangerous drug, as defined in R.C. §
4729.01; or
      (6)   The property involved in violation of this section is a special
purchase article as defined in R.C. § 4737.04 or a bulk merchandise container
as defined in R.C. § 4737.012.
(R.C. § 2913.51)
§ 131.19 VALUE OF STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (A)   If more than one item of property or services is involved in a theft
offense or in a violation of R.C. § 1716.14(A) involving a victim who is an
elderly person or disabled adult, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, the value of the property or services involved for the purpose of
determining the value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value
of all property or services involved in the offense.
   (B)   (1)   When a series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02, or a series of
violations of, attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or
complicity in violations of R.C. § 1716.14(A), R.C. § 2913.02, 2913.03, or
2913.04, R.C. § 2913.21(B)(1) or (B)(2), or R.C. § 2913.31 or 2913.43 involving
a victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, is committed by the
offender in the offender’s same employment, capacity, or relationship to
another, all of those offenses shall be tried as a single offense. When a
series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02, or a series of violations of, attempts
to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations
of R.C. § 2913.02 or 2913.43 involving a victim who is an active duty service
member or spouse of an active duty service member, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, is committed by the
offender in the offender’s same employment, capacity, or relationship to
another, all of those offenses shall be tried as a single offense. The value of
the property or services involved in the series of offenses for the purpose of
determining the value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value
of all property and services involved in all offenses in the series.
      (2)   If an offender commits a series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02
that involves a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims, all of
the offenses may be tried as a single offense. If an offender is being tried
for the commission of a series of violations of, attempts to commit a violation
of, conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations of R.C. § 1716.14(A),
R.C. §
      (3)   When a series of two or more offenses under R.C. § 2913.40,
2913.48, or 2921.41 is committed by the offender in the offender’s same
employment, capacity, or relationship to another, all of those offenses may be
tried as a single offense. If the offenses are tried as a single offense, the
value of the property or services involved for the purpose of determining the
value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property
and services involved in all of the offenses in the series of two or more
offenses.
      (4)   In prosecuting a single offense under division (B)(1), (B)(2) or
(B)(3) of this section, it is not necessary to separately allege and prove each
offense in the series. Rather, it is sufficient to allege and prove that the
offender, within a given span of time, committed one or more theft offenses or
violations of R.C. § 2913.40, 2913.48, or 2921.41 in the offender’s same
employment, capacity, or relationship to another as described in division (B)
(1) or (B)(3) of this section, or committed one or more theft offenses that
involve a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims or a scheme or
course of conduct as described in division (B)(2) of this section. While it is
not necessary to separately allege and prove each offense in the series in
order to prosecute a single offense under division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of
this section, it remains necessary in prosecuting them as a single offense to
prove the aggregate value of the property or services in order to meet the
requisite statutory offense level sought by the prosecution.
   (C)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   The value of an heirloom, memento, collector’s item, antique,
museum piece, manuscript, document, record, or other thing that has intrinsic
worth to its owner and that either is irreplaceable or is replaceable only on
the expenditure of substantial time, effort, or money, is the amount which
would compensate the owner for its loss.
      (2)   The value of personal effects and household goods, and of
materials, supplies, equipment, and fixtures used in the profession, business,
trade, occupation, or avocation of its owner, which property is not covered
under division (C)(1) of this section, and which retains substantial utility
for its purpose regardless of its age or condition, is the cost of replacing
such property with new property of like kind and quality.
      (3)   The value of any real or personal property that is not covered
under division (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section, and the value of services, is
the fair market value of the property or services. As used in this section,
FAIR MARKET VALUE is the money consideration which a buyer would give and a
seller would accept for property or services, assuming that the buyer is
willing to buy and the seller is willing to sell, that both are fully informed
as to all facts material to the transaction, and that neither is under any
compulsion to act.
   (D)   Without limitation on the evidence which may be used to establish the
value of property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   When the property involved is personal property held for sale at
wholesale or retail, the price at which the property was held for sale is prima
facie evidence of its value.
      (2)   When the property involved is a security or commodity traded on an
exchange, the closing price or, if there is no closing price, the asked price,
given in the latest marked quotation prior to the offense, is prima facie
evidence of the value of the security or commodity.
      (3)   When the property involved is livestock, poultry, or raw
agricultural products for which a local market price is available, the latest
local market price prior to the offense is prima facie evidence of the value of
the livestock, poultry, or products.
      (4)   When the property involved is a negotiable instrument, the face
value is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (5)   When the property involved is a warehouse receipt, bill of lading,
pawn ticket, claim check, or other instrument entitling the holder or bearer to
receive property, the face value or, if there is no face value, the value of
the property covered by the instrument less any payment necessary to receive
the property, is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (6)   When the property involved is a ticket of admission, ticket for
transportation, coupon, token, or other instrument entitling the holder or
bearer to receive property or services, the face value or, if there is no face
value, the value of the property or services which may be received by the
instrument is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (7)   When the services involved are gas, electricity, water, telephone,
transportation, shipping, or other services for which the rate is established
by law, the duly established rate is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services.
      (8)   When the services involved are services for which the rate is not
established by law, and the offender has been notified prior to the offense of
the rate for the services, either in writing, or orally, or by posting in a
manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential offenders,
the rate contained in the notice is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services.
(R.C. § 2913.61(B) - (E))
§ 131.20 DEGREE OF OFFENSE WHEN CERTAIN PROPERTY INVOLVED.
   Regardless of the value of the property involved, and regardless of whether
the offender previously has been convicted of a theft offense, a violation of §
131.08 or §
131.18 is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the property
involved is any of the following:
   (A)   A credit card;
   (B)   A printed form for a check or other negotiable instrument, that on its
face identifies the drawer or maker for whose use it is designed or identifies
the account on which it is to be drawn, and that has not been executed by the
drawer or maker or on which the amount is blank;
   (C)   A motor vehicle identification license plate as prescribed by R.C. §
4503.22, a temporary motor vehicle license registration as prescribed by R.C. §
4503.182, or any comparable temporary motor vehicle license registration as
prescribed by the applicable law of another state or the United States;
   (D)   A blank form for a certificate of title or a manufacturer’s or
importer’s certificate to a motor vehicle, as prescribed by R.C. § 4505.07;
   (E)   A blank form for any license listed in R.C. § 4507.01.
(R.C. § 2913.71)
§ 131.21 INJURING VINES, BUSHES, TREES, OR CROPS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall recklessly cut down,
destroy, girdle, or otherwise injure a vine, bush, shrub, sapling, tree, or
crop standing or growing on the land of another or upon public land.
   (B)   In addition to the penalty provided in division (C) of this section,
whoever violates this section is liable in treble damages for the injury
caused.
(R.C. § 901.51)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 901.99(A))
§ 131.22 DETENTION AND ARREST OF SHOPLIFTERS AND THOSE COMMITTING MOTION
PICTURE PIRACY; PROTECTION OF INSTITUTIONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ARCHIVAL INSTITUTION. Means any public or private building, structure, or
shelter in which are stored historical documents, devices, records,
manuscripts, or items of public interest, which historical materials are stored
to preserve the materials or the information in the materials, to disseminate
the information contained in the materials, or to make the materials available
for public inspection or for inspection by certain persons who have a
particular interest in, use for, or knowledge concerning the materials.
      AUDIOVISUAL RECORDING FUNCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2913.07.
      FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.07.
      MUSEUM. Means any public or private nonprofit institution that is
permanently organized for primarily educational or aesthetic purposes, owns or
borrows objects or items of public interest, and cares for and exhibits to the
public the objects or items.
      PRETRIAL DIVERSION PROGRAM. Means a rehabilitative, educational program
designed to reduce recidivism and promote personal responsibility that is at
least four hours in length and that has been approved by any court in this
state.
   (B)   A merchant, or an employee or agent of a merchant, who has probable
cause to believe that things offered for sale by a mercantile establishment
have been unlawfully taken by a person, may, for the purposes set forth in
division (D) below, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable
length of time within the mercantile establishment or its immediate vicinity.
   (C)   Any officer, employee, or agent of a library, museum, or archival
institution may, for the purposes set forth in division (D) below or for the
purpose of conducting a reasonable investigation of a belief that the person
has acted in a manner described in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) below, detain a
person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of time within, or in the
immediate vicinity of, the library, museum, or archival institution, if the
officer, employee, or agent has probable cause to believe that the person has:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly moved, defaced, damaged,
destroyed, or otherwise improperly tampered with property owned by or in the
custody of the library, museum, or archival institution; or
      (2)   With purpose to deprive the library, museum, or archival
institution of property owned by it or in its custody, knowingly obtained or
exerted control over the property without the consent of the owner or person
authorized to give consent, beyond the scope of the express or implied consent
of the owner or person authorized to give consent, by deception, or by threat.
   (D)   An officer, agent, or employee of a library, museum, or archival
institution pursuant to division (C) above or a merchant or an employee or
agent of a merchant pursuant to division (B) above may detain another person
for any of the following purposes:
      (1)   To recover the property that is the subject of the unlawful taking,
criminal mischief, or theft;
      (2)   To cause an arrest to be made by a peace officer;
      (3)   To obtain a warrant of arrest;
      (4)   To offer the person, if the person is suspected of the unlawful
taking, criminal mischief, or theft and notwithstanding any other provision of
this Code or the Ohio Revised Code, an opportunity to complete a pretrial
diversion program and to inform the person of the other legal remedies
available to the library, museum, archival institution, or merchant.
   (E)   The owner or lessee of a facility in which a motion picture is being
shown, or the owner’s or lessee’s employee or agent, who has probable cause to
believe that a person is or has been operating an audiovisual recording
function of a device in violation of R.C. § 2917.07 may, for the purpose of
causing an arrest to be made by a peace officer or of obtaining an arrest
warrant, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of
time within the facility or its immediate vicinity.
   (F)   The officer, agent, or employee of the library, museum, or archival
institution, the merchant or an employee or agent of a merchant, or the owner,
lessee, employee, or agent of the facility acting under divisions (B), (C) or
(E) above shall not search the person detained, search or seize any property
belonging to the person detained without the person’s consent, or use undue
restraint upon the person detained.
   (G)   Any peace officer may arrest without a warrant any person that the
officer has probable cause to believe has committed any act described in
divisions (C)(1) or (C)(2) above, that the officer has probable cause to
believe has committed an unlawful taking in a mercantile establishment, or that
the officer has reasonable cause to believe has committed an act prohibited by
R.C. § 2913.07. An arrest under this division shall be made within a reasonable
time after the commission of the act or unlawful taking.
(R.C. § 2935.041)
Statutory reference:
   Arrest without a warrant generally, see R.C. § 2935.03
   Probable cause, see R.C. § 2933.22
§ 131.23 INSURANCE FRAUD; WORKERS’ COMPENSATION FRAUD; MEDICAID FRAUD.
   (A)   Insurance fraud.
      (1)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   Present to, or cause to be presented to, an insurer any written
or oral statement that is part of, or in support of, an application for
insurance, a claim for payment pursuant to a policy, or a claim for any other
benefit pursuant to a policy, knowing that the statement, or any part of the
statement, is false or deceptive;
         (b)   Assist, aid, abet, solicit, procure, or conspire with another to
prepare or make any written or oral statement that is intended to be presented
to an insurer as part of, or in support of, an application for insurance, a
claim for payment pursuant to a policy, or a claim for any other benefit
pursuant to a policy, knowing that the statement, or any part of the statement,
is false or deceptive.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of insurance fraud.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, insurance fraud is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the amount of the claim that is false or deceptive is
$1,000 or more, insurance fraud is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   This division (A) shall not be construed to abrogate, waive, or
modify R.C. § 2317.02(A).
      (4)   As used in this division (A):
         DATA. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01 and additionally
includes any other representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts,
or instructions that are being or have been prepared in a formalized manner.
         DECEPTIVE. Means that a statement, in whole or in part, would cause
another to be deceived because it contains a misleading representation,
withholds information, prevents the acquisition of information, or by any other
conduct, act, or omission creates, confirms, or perpetuates a false impression,
including but not limited to a false impression as to law, value, state of
mind, or other objective or subjective fact.
         INSURER. Means any person that is authorized to engage in the business
of insurance in this state under R.C. Title 39, the Ohio Fair Plan Underwriting
Association created under R.C. § 3929.43, any health insuring corporation, and
any legal entity that is self-insured and provides benefits to its employees or
members.
         POLICY. Means a policy, certificate, contract, or plan that is issued
by an insurer.
         STATEMENT. Includes but is not limited to any notice, letter, or
memorandum; proof of loss; bill of lading; receipt for payment; invoice,
account, or other financial statement; estimate of property damage; bill for
services; diagnosis or prognosis; prescription; hospital, medical, or dental
chart or other record; x-ray, photograph, videotape, or movie film; test
result; other evidence of loss, injury, or expense; computer-generated
document; and data in any form.
(R.C. § 2913.47)
   (B)   Workers’ compensation fraud.
      (1)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Receive workers’ compensation benefits to which the person is
not entitled;
         (b)   Make or present or cause to be made or presented a false or
misleading statement with the purpose to secure payment for goods or services
rendered under R.C. Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127, or 4131 or to secure workers’
compensation benefits;
         (c)   Alter, falsify, destroy, conceal, or remove any record or
document that is necessary to fully establish the validity of any claim filed
with, or necessary to establish the nature and validity of all goods and
services for which reimbursement or payment was received or is requested from
the Bureau of Workers’ Compensation, or a self-insuring employer under R.C.
Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127, or 4131;
         (d)   Enter into an agreement or conspiracy to defraud the Bureau of
Workers’ Compensation or a self-insuring employer by making or presenting or
causing to be made or presented a false claim for workers’ compensation
benefits;
         (e)   Make or present or cause to be made or presented a false
statement concerning manual codes, classification or employees, payroll, paid
compensation, or number of personnel, when information of that nature is
necessary to determine the actual workers’ compensation premium or assessment
owed to the Bureau by an employer;
         (f)   Alter, forge, or create a workers’ compensation certificate or
falsely show current or correct workers’ compensation coverage;
         (g)   Fail to secure or maintain workers’ compensation coverage as
required by R.C. Chapter 4123 with the intent to defraud the Bureau of Workers’
Compensation.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of workers’
compensation fraud. Except as otherwise provided in this division, workers’
compensation fraud is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of
premiums and assessments unpaid pursuant to actions described in divisions (B)
(1)(e), (B)(1)(f), or (B)(1)(g) of this section, or goods, services, property,
or money stolen is $1,000 or more, workers’ compensation fraud is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Upon application of the governmental body that conducted the
investigation and prosecution of a violation of this division (B), the court
shall order the person who is convicted of the violation to pay the
governmental body its costs of investigating and prosecuting the case. These
costs are in addition to any other costs or penalty provided under federal,
state or local law.
      (4)   The remedies and penalties provided in this division (B) are not
exclusive remedies and penalties and do not preclude the use of any other
criminal or civil remedy or penalty for any act that is in violation of this
division (B).
      (5)   As used in this division (B):
         CLAIM. Means any attempt to cause the Bureau of Workers’ Compensation,
an independent third party with whom the administrator or an employer contracts
under R.C. § 4121.44, or a self-insuring employer to make payment or
reimbursement for workers’ compensation benefits.
         EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4123.01.
         EMPLOYER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4123.01.
         EMPLOYMENT. Means participating in any trade, occupation, business,
service, or profession for substantial gainful remuneration.
         FALSE. Means wholly or partially untrue or deceptive.
         GOODS. Includes but is not limited to medical supplies, appliances,
rehabilitative equipment, and any other apparatus or furnishing provided or
used in the care, treatment, or rehabilitation of a claimant for workers’
compensation benefits.
         RECORDS. Means any medical, professional, financial, or business
record relating to the treatment or care of any person, to goods or services
provided to any person, or to rates paid for goods or services provided to any
person, or any record that the administrator of workers’ compensation requires
pursuant to rule.
         REMUNERATION. Includes but is not limited to wages, commissions,
rebates, and any other reward or consideration.
         SELF-INSURING EMPLOYER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4123.01.
         SERVICES. Includes but is not limited to any service provided by any
health care provider to a claimant for workers’ compensation benefits and any
and all services provided by the Bureau as part of workers’ compensation
insurance coverage.
         STATEMENT. Includes but is not limited to any oral, written,
electronic, electronic impulse, or magnetic communication notice, letter,
memorandum, receipt for payment, invoice, account, financial statement, or bill
for services; a diagnosis, prognosis, prescription, hospital, medical, or
dental chart or other record; and a computer generated document.
         WORKERS’ COMPENSATION BENEFITS. Means any compensation or benefits
payable under R.C. Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127, or 4131.
(R.C. § 2913.48)
   (C)   Medicaid fraud.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a false or
misleading statement or representation for use in obtaining reimbursement from
the Medicaid program.
      (2)   No person, with purpose to commit fraud or knowing that the person
is facilitating a fraud, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   Contrary to the terms of the person’s provider agreement,
charge, solicit, accept or receive for goods or services that the person
provides under the Medicaid program any property, money or other consideration
in addition to the amount of reimbursement under the Medicaid program and the
person’s provider agreement for the goods or services and any cost-sharing
expenses authorized by R.C. § 5162.20 or rules adopted by the Medicaid Director
regarding the Medicaid program.
         (b)   Solicit, offer or receive any remuneration, other than any cost-
sharing expenses authorized by R.C. § 5162.20 or rules adopted by the Medicaid
Director regarding the Medicaid program, in cash or in kind, including but not
limited to a kickback or rebate, in connection with the furnishing of goods or
services for which whole or partial reimbursement is or may be made under the
Medicaid program.
      (3)   No person, having submitted a claim for or provided goods or
services under the Medicaid program, shall do either of the following for a
period of at least six years after a reimbursement pursuant to that claim, or a
reimbursement for those goods or services, is received under the Medicaid
program:
         (a)   Knowingly alter, falsify, destroy, conceal or remove any records
that are necessary to fully disclose the nature of all goods or services for
which the claim was submitted, or for which reimbursement was received, by the
person; or
         (b)   Knowingly alter, falsify, destroy, conceal or remove any records
that are necessary to disclose fully all income and expenditures upon which
rates of reimbursements were based for the person.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (C) is guilty of Medicaid fraud.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, Medicaid fraud is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the value of the property, services or funds obtained
in violation of this section is $1,000 or more, Medicaid fraud is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate State law.
      (5)   Upon application of the governmental agency, office or other entity
that conducted the investigation and prosecution in a case under this section,
the court shall order any person who is convicted of a violation of this
section for receiving any reimbursement for furnishing goods or services under
the Medicaid program to which the person is not entitled to pay to the
applicant its cost of investigating and prosecuting the case. The costs of
investigation and prosecution that a defendant is ordered to pay pursuant to
this division shall be in addition to any other penalties for the receipt of
that reimbursement that are provided in this section, R.C. § 2913.40 or
5164.35, or any other provision of law.
      (6)   The provisions of this section are not intended to be exclusive
remedies and do not preclude the use of any other criminal or civil remedy for
any act that is in violation of this section.
      (7)   As used in this division (C):
         PROVIDER. Means any person who has signed a provider agreement with
the Department of Medicaid to provide goods or services pursuant to the
Medicaid program or any person who has signed an agreement with a party to such
a provider agreement under which the person agrees to provide goods or services
that are reimbursable under the Medicaid program.
         PROVIDER AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
         RECIPIENT. Means any individual who receives goods or services from a
provider under the Medicaid program.
         RECORDS. Means any medical, professional, financial or business
records relating to the treatment or care of any recipient, to goods or
services provided to any recipient, or to rates paid for goods or services
provided to any recipient, and any records that are required by the rules of
the Medicaid Director to be kept for the Medicaid program.
         STATEMENT or REPRESENTATION. Means any oral, written, electronic,
electronic impulse or magnetic communication that is used to identify an item
of goods or a service for which reimbursement may be made under the Medicaid
program or that states income and expense and is or may be used to determine a
rate of reimbursement under the Medicaid program.
(R.C. § 2913.40)
   (D)   Medicaid eligibility fraud.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following in an application
for enrollment in the Medicaid program or in a document that requires a
disclosure of assets for the purpose of determining eligibility for the
Medicaid program:
         (a)   Make or cause to be made a false or misleading statement;
         (b)   Conceal an interest in property;
         (c)   1.   Except as provided in division (D)(1)(c)2. of this section,
fail to disclose a transfer of property that occurred during the period
beginning 36 months before submission of the application or document and ending
on the date the application or document was submitted;
            2.   Fail to disclose a transfer of property that occurred during
the period beginning 60 months before submission of the application or document
and ending on the date the application or document was submitted and that was
made to an irrevocable trust a portion of which is not distributable to the
applicant for or recipient of Medicaid or to a revocable trust.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates this division (D) is guilty of Medicaid
eligibility fraud. Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation
of this division (D) is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the
Medicaid services paid as a result of the violation is $1,000 or more, a
violation of this division (D) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
         (b)   In addition to imposing a sentence under division (D)(2)(a) of
this section, the court shall order that a person who is guilty of Medicaid
eligibility fraud make restitution in the full amount of any Medicaid services
paid on behalf of an applicant for or recipient of Medicaid for which the
applicant or recipient was not eligible, plus interest at the rate applicable
to judgments on unreimbursed amounts from the date on which the Medicaid
services were paid to the date on which restitution is made.
         (c)   The remedies and penalties provided in this division (D) are not
exclusive and do not preclude the use of any other criminal or civil remedy for
any act that is in violation of this division (D).
      (3)   This division (D) does not apply to a person who fully disclosed in
an application for Medicaid or in a document that requires a disclosure of
assets for the purpose of determining eligibility for Medicaid all of the
interests in property of the applicant for or recipient of Medicaid, all
transfers of property by the applicant for or recipient of Medicaid, and the
circumstances of all those transfers.
      (4)   Any amounts of Medicaid services recovered as restitution under
this division (D) and any interest on those amounts shall be credited to the
General Revenue Fund, and any applicable federal share shall be returned to the
appropriate agency or department of the United States.
      (5)   As used in this division (D):
         MEDICAID SERVICES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
         PROPERTY. Means any real or personal property or other asset in which
a person has any legal title or interest.
(R.C. § 2913.401)
§ 131.24 INJURY TO PROPERTY BY HUNTERS.
   (A)   No person in the act of hunting, pursuing, taking, or killing a wild
animal shall act in a negligent, careless, or reckless manner so as to injure
property.
(R.C. § 1533.171(A))
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 1533.99(C))
Statutory reference:
   Violation, license revocation, see R.C. § 1533.171(B) through (E)
§ 131.25 EVIDENCE OF INTENT TO COMMIT THEFT OF RENTED PROPERTY OR RENTAL
SERVICES; EVIDENCE OF LACK OF CAPACITY TO CONSENT.
   (A)   Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental
services.
      (1)   As used in this division (A):
         RENTER. Means a person who owns rented property.
         RENTEE. Means a person who pays consideration to a renter for the use
of rented property.
      (2)   Each of the following shall be considered evidence of intent to
commit theft of rented property or rental services:
         (a)   At the time of entering into the rental contract, the rentee
presented the renter with identification that was materially false, fictitious,
or not current with respect to name, address, place of employment, or other
relevant information.
         (b)   After receiving a notice demanding the return of the rented
property as provided in division (A)(3) of this section, the rentee neither
returned the rented property nor made arrangements acceptable with the renter
to return the rented property.
      (3)   To establish that a rentee has an intent to commit theft of rented
property or rental services under division (A)(2)(b) above, a renter may issue
a notice to a rentee demanding the return of the rented property. The renter
shall mail the notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
rentee at the address the rentee gave when the rental contract was executed, or
to the rentee at the last address the rentee or the rentee’s agent furnished in
writing to the renter.
      (4)   A demand for the return of the rented property is not a
prerequisite for the prosecution of a rentee for theft of rented property or
rental services. The evidence specified in division (A)(2) above does not
constitute the only evidence that may be considered as evidence of intent to
commit theft of rented property or rental services.
(R.C. § 2913.72)
   (B)   Evidence of lack of capacity to consent.
      (1)   In a prosecution for any alleged violation of §
131.08 through
131.20,
131.23,
131.25 through
131.29, or
132.11, if the lack of consent of the victim is an element of the provision
that allegedly was violated, evidence that, at the time of the alleged
violation, the victim lacked the capacity to give consent is admissible to show
that the victim did not give consent.
      (2)   As used in this section, LACKS THE CAPACITY TO CONSENT means being
impaired for any reason to the extent that the person lacks sufficient
understanding or capacity to make and carry out reasonable decisions concerning
the person or the person’s resources.
(R.C. § 2913.73)
§ 131.26 FORGERY OF IDENTIFICATION CARDS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do either of the following:
      (1)   Forge an identification card.
      (2)   Sell or otherwise distribute a card that purports to be an
identification card, knowing it was forged.
   (B)   As used in this section, IDENTIFICATION CARD means a card that
includes personal information or characteristics of an individual, a purpose of
which is to establish the identity of the bearer described on the card, whether
the words “identity,” “identification,” “identification card,” or other similar
words appear on the card.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of forging
identification cards or selling or distributing forged identification cards.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, forging identification cards or
selling or distributing forged identification cards is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of
division (A) of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, forging identification cards or selling or distributing
forged identification cards is a misdemeanor of the first degree and, in
addition, the court shall impose upon the offender a fine not less than $250.
      (2)    If the victim of a violation of this section is an elderly person,
R.C. § 2913.31(C)(2)(b) applies and the offense shall be prosecuted under R.C.
§ 2913.31.
(R.C. § 2913.31(B), (C)(2))
Statutory reference:
   Forgery, felony provisions, see R.C. § 2913.31(A) and (C)(1)
   Forgery of originating address or other routing information in connection
with the transmission of an electronic mail advertisement, felony provisions,
see R.C. § 2307.64
§ 131.27 CRIMINAL SIMULATION.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud, or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Make or alter any object so that it appears to have value because
of antiquity, rarity, curiosity, source, or authorship, which it does not in
fact possess.
      (2)   Practice deception in making, retouching, editing, or reproducing
any photograph, movie film, video tape, phonograph record, or recording tape.
      (3)   Falsely or fraudulently make, simulate, forge, alter, or
counterfeit any wrapper, label, stamp, cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor
Control Commission under R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, falsely or fraudulently
cause to be made, simulated, forged, altered, or counterfeited any wrapper,
label, stamp, cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor Control Commission under
R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, or use more than once any wrapper, label, stamp,
cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor Control Commission under R.C. Chapters
4301 and 4303.
      (4)   Offer, or possess with the purpose to offer, any object that the
person knows to have been simulated as provided in divisions (A)(1), (A)(2) or
(A)(3) of this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal simulation. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, criminal simulation is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the loss to the victim is $1,000 or more, criminal
simulation is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.32)
§ 131.28 PERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is
facilitating a fraud, or with purpose to induce another to purchase property or
services, shall personate a law enforcement officer, or an inspector,
investigator, or agent of any governmental agency.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of personating an officer, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2913.44)
Cross-reference:
   Impersonating an officer (non-fraud offense), see §
132.12
§ 131.29 TRADEMARK COUNTERFEITING.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Attach, affix, or otherwise use a counterfeit mark in connection
with the manufacture of goods or services, whether or not the goods or services
are intended for sale or resale.
      (2)   Possess, sell, or offer for sale tools, machines, instruments,
materials, articles, or other items of personal property with the knowledge
that they are designed for the production or reproduction of counterfeit marks.
      (3)   Purchase or otherwise acquire goods, and keep or otherwise have the
goods in the person’s possession, with the knowledge that a counterfeit mark is
attached to, affixed to, or otherwise used in connection with the goods and
with the intent to sell or otherwise dispose of the goods.
      (4)   Sell, offer for sale, or otherwise dispose of goods with the
knowledge that a counterfeit mark is attached to, affixed to, or otherwise used
in connection with the goods.
      (5)   Sell, offer for sale, or otherwise provide services with the
knowledge that a counterfeit mark is used in connection with that sale, offer
for sale, or other provision of the services.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of trademark counterfeiting.
      (1)   A violation of division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)    Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of
division (A)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
circumstances of the violation indicate that the tools, machines, instruments,
materials, articles, or other items of personal property involved in the
violation were intended for use in the commission of a felony, a violation of
division (A)(2) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of
division (A)(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the cumulative sales price of the goods or services to which or in
connection with which the counterfeit mark is attached, affixed or otherwise
used in the offense is $1,000 or more, a violation of division (A)(3), (A)(4)
or (A)(5) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   A defendant may assert as an affirmative defense to a charge of a
violation of this section defenses, affirmative defenses, and limitations on
remedies that would be available in a civil, criminal or administrative action
or proceeding under the Lanham Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 1051 through 1127, as
amended, the Trademark Counterfeiting Act of 1984, being 18 U.S.C. § 2320, as
amended, R.C. Chapter 1329 or another section of the Ohio Revised Code, or
common law.
   (D)   (1)   Law enforcement officers may seize pursuant to Criminal Rule 41,
R.C. Chapter 2933, or R.C. Chapter 2981 either of the following:
         (a)   Goods to which or in connection with which a person attached,
affixed, otherwise used, or intended to attach, affix or otherwise use a
counterfeit mark in violation of this section.
         (b)   Tools, machines, instruments, materials, articles, vehicles or
other items of personal property that are possessed, sold, offered for sale, or
used in a violation of this section or in an attempt to commit or complicity in
the commission of a violation of this section.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of R.C. Chapter 2981, if a
person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this section, an
attempt to violate this section, or complicity in a violation of this section,
the court involved shall declare that the goods described in division (D)(1)(a)
of this section and the personal property described in division (D)(1)(b) of
this section are contraband and are forfeited. Prior to the court’s entry of
judgment under Criminal Rule 32, the owner of a registered trademark or service
mark that is the subject to the counterfeit mark may recommend a manner in
which the forfeited goods and forfeited personal property should be disposed
of. If that owner makes a timely recommendation of a manner of disposition, the
court is not bound by the recommendation. If that owner makes a timely
recommendation of a manner of disposition, the court may include in its entry
of judgment an order that requires appropriate persons to dispose of the
forfeited goods and forfeited personal property in the recommended manner. If
the owner fails to make a timely recommendation of a manner of disposition or
if that owner makes a timely recommendation of a manner of disposition but the
court determines to not follow the recommendation, the court shall include in
its entry of judgement an order that requires the law enforcement agency that
employs the law enforcement officer who seized the forfeited goods or the
forfeited personal property to destroy them or cause their destruction.
   (E)   This section does not affect the rights of an owner of a trademark or
service mark, or the enforcement in a civil action or in administrative
proceedings of the rights of an owner or a trademark or service mark under the
Lanham Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 1051 through 1127, as amended, the Trademark
Counterfeiting Act of 1984, being 18 U.S.C. § 2320, as amended, R.C. Chapter
1329, or another section of the Ohio Revised Code, or common law.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      COUNTERFEIT MARK.
         (a)   Except as provided in division (b) of this definition, the term
means a spurious trademark or a spurious service mark that satisfies both of
the following:
            1.   It is identical with or substantially indistinguishable from a
mark that is registered on the principal register in the United States Patent
and Trademark Office for the same goods or services as the goods or services to
which or in connection with which the spurious trademark or spurious service
mark is attached, affixed, or otherwise used, or from a mark that is registered
with the Secretary of State pursuant to R.C. §§ 1329.54 through 1329.67 for the
same goods or services as the goods or services to which or in connection with
which the spurious trademark or spurious service mark is attached, affixed, or
otherwise used, and the owner of the registration uses that registered
trademark, whether or not the offender knows that the mark is registered in a
manner described in this division (a)1.
            2.   Its use is likely to cause confusion or mistake or to deceive
other persons.
         (b)   The term does not include a mark or other designation that is
attached to, affixed to, or otherwise used in connection with goods or services
if the holder of the right to use the mark or other designation authorizes the
manufacturer, producer, or vendor of those goods or services to attach, affix,
or otherwise use the mark or other designation in connection with those goods
or services at the time of their manufacture, production or sale.
      CUMULATIVE SALES PRICE. Means the product of the lowest single unit sales
price charged or sought to be charged by an offender for goods to which or in
connection with which a counterfeit mark is attached, affixed, or otherwise
used or of the lowest single service transaction price charged or sought to be
charged by an offender for services in connection with which a counterfeit mark
is used, multiplied by the total number of those goods or services, whether or
not units of goods are sold or are in an offender’s possession, custody or
control.
      REGISTERED TRADEMARK OR SERVICE MARK. Means a trademark or service mark
that is registered in a manner described in division (a) of the definition of
“counterfeit mark.”
      SERVICE MARK. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1329.54.
      TRADEMARK. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1329.54.
(R.C. § 2913.34)
§ 131.30 DIMINISHING OR INTERFERING WITH FORFEITABLE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall destroy, damage, remove, or transfer property that is
subject to forfeiture or otherwise take any action in regard to property that
is subject to forfeiture with purpose to do any of the following:
      (1)   Prevent or impair the state’s or political subdivision’s lawful
authority to take the property into its custody or control under R.C. Chapter
2981 or to continue holding the property under its lawful custody or control;
      (2)   Impair or defeat the court’s continuing jurisdiction over the
person and property;
      (3)   Devalue property that the person knows, or has reasonable cause to
believe, is subject to forfeiture proceedings under R.C. Chapter 2981.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference with or
diminishing forfeitable property. Except as otherwise provided in this division
(B), interference with or diminishing forfeitable property is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the value of the property is $1,000 or more, interference
with or diminishing forfeitable property is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2981.07)
§ 131.31 RECORDING CREDIT CARD, TELEPHONE OR SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBERS.
   (A)   No person shall record or cause to be recorded either of the
following:
      (1)   A credit card account number of the other party to a transaction,
when a check, bill of exchange or other draft is presented for payment; or
      (2)   The telephone number or Social Security account number of the other
party to a transaction, when payment is made by credit card charge agreement,
check, bill of exchange or other draft.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a transaction, if all
of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The credit card account number, Social Security account number or
telephone number is recorded for a legitimate business purpose, including
collection purposes.
      (2)   The other party to the transaction consents to the recording of the
credit card account number, Social Security account number or telephone number.
      (3)   The credit card account number, Social Security account number or
telephone number that is recorded during the course of the transaction is not
disclosed to any third party for any purposes other than collection purposes
and is not used to market goods or services unrelated to the goods or services
purchased in the transaction.
   (C)   Nothing in this section prohibits the recording of the number of a
credit card account when given in lieu of a deposit to secure payment in the
event of default, loss, damage or other occurrence, or requires a person to
accept a check presented for payment, if the other party to the transaction
refuses to consent to the recording of the number of the party’s Social
Security account or license to operate a motor vehicle.
(R.C. § 1349.17)
   (D)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 1349.99(A))
§ 131.32 PROSECUTIONS FOR THEFT OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   In a prosecution for a theft offense, as defined in R.C. § 2913.01,
that involves alleged tampering with a gas, electric, steam or water meter,
conduit or attachment of a utility that has been disconnected by the utility,
proof that a meter, conduit or attachment of a utility has been tampered with
is prima facie evidence that the person who is obligated to pay for the service
rendered through the meter, conduit or attachment, and who is in possession or
control of the meter, conduit or attachment at the time the tampering occurred
has caused the tampering with intent to commit a theft offense.
   (B)   In a prosecution for a theft offense, as defined in R.C. § 2913.01,
that involves the alleged reconnection of a gas, electric, steam or water
meter, conduit or attachment of a utility that has been disconnected by the
utility, proof that a meter, conduit or attachment disconnected by a utility
has been reconnected without the consent of the utility is prima facie evidence
that the person in possession or control of the meter, conduit or attachment at
the time of the reconnection has reconnected the meter, conduit or attachment
with intent to commit a theft offense.
   (C)   As used in this section:
      TAMPER. Means to interfere with, damage or bypass a utility meter,
conduit or attachment with the intent to impede the correct registration of a
meter or the proper functions of a conduit or attachment so as to reduce the
amount of utility service that is registered on the meter.
      UTILITY. Means any electric light company, gas company, natural gas
company, pipe-line company, water-works company or heating or cooling company,
as defined in R.C. § 4905.03(C), (D), (E), (F), (G), or (H), its lessees,
trustees or receivers, or any similar utility owned or operated by a political
subdivision.
(R.C. § 4933.18)
   (D)   Each electric light company, gas company, natural gas company,
pipeline company, waterworks company or heating or cooling company, as defined
by R.C. § 4905.03(C), (D), (E), (F), (G), or (H), or its lessees, trustees or
receivers, and each similar utility owned or operated by a political
subdivision, shall notify its customers, on an annual basis, that tampering
with or bypassing a meter constitutes a theft offense that could result in the
imposition of criminal sanctions.
(R.C. § 4933.19)
§ 131.33 MOTION PICTURE PIRACY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AUDIOVISUAL RECORDING FUNCTION. Means the capability of a device to
record or transmit a motion picture or any part of a motion picture by means of
any technology existing on, or developed after, March 9, 2004.
      FACILITY. Means a movie theater.
   (B)   No person, without the written consent of the owner or lessee of the
facility and of the licensor of the motion picture, shall knowingly operate an
audiovisual recording function of a device in a facility in which the motion
picture is being shown.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of motion
picture piracy, a misdemeanor of the first degree on the first offense and a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
   (D)   This section does not prohibit or restrict a lawfully authorized
investigative, law enforcement, protective, or intelligence gathering employee
or agent of the government of this state or a political subdivision of this
state, or of the federal government, when acting in an official capacity, from
operating an audiovisual recording function of a device in any facility in
which a motion picture is being shown.
   (E)   Division (B) of this section does not limit or affect the application
of any other prohibition in this code or the Ohio Revised Code. Any act that is
a violation of both division (B) of this section and another provision of this
code or the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, under the
other provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code, or under both this
section and the other provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 2913.07)
§ 131.34 RAILROAD VANDALISM; CRIMINAL TRESPASS; INTERFERENCE WITH OPERATION OF
TRAIN; GRADE CROSSING DEVICE VANDALISM.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any object
at, onto, or in the path of, any railroad rail, railroad track, locomotive,
engine, railroad car, or other vehicle of a railroad company while such vehicle
is on a railroad track.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall climb upon or into any
locomotive, engine, railroad car, or other vehicle of a railroad company when
it is on a railroad track.
   (C)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall disrupt, delay, or
prevent the operation of any train or other vehicle of a railroad company while
such vehicle is on a railroad track.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of railroad
vandalism. Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of criminal
trespass on a locomotive, engine, railroad car, or other railroad vehicle.
Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of interference with
the operation of a train. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
railroad vandalism; criminal trespass on a locomotive, engine, railroad car, or
other railroad vehicle; and interference with the operation of a train each is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation of division (A), (B), or
(C) of this section causes serious physical harm to property or creates a
substantial risk of physical harm to any person, causes physical harm to any
person, or causes serious physical harm to any person, the violation is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.10)
   (E)   No person shall knowingly deface, damage, obstruct, remove, or
otherwise impair the operation of any railroad grade crossing warning signal or
other protective device, including any gate, bell, light, crossbuck, stop sign,
yield sign, advance warning sign, or advance pavement marking.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of railroad
grade crossing device vandalism. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
railroad grade crossing device vandalism is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the violation of division (E) of this section causes serious physical harm
to property or creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person,
causes physical harm to any person, or causes serious physical harm to any
person, railroad grade crossing device vandalism is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.101)
§ 131.35 DESECRATION.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall purposely deface, damage,
pollute, or otherwise physically mistreat any of the following:
      (1)   Any public monument;
      (2)   Any historical or commemorative marker, or any structure, Indian
mound or earthwork, cemetery, thing, or site of great historical or
archaeological interest;
      (3)   A place of worship, its furnishings, or religious artifacts or
sacred texts within the place of worship or within the grounds upon which the
place of worship is located;
      (4)   A work of art or museum piece;
      (5)   Any other object of reverence or sacred devotion.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of desecration. A violation of
division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the second degree. A violation of division (A)(3) of this section is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   As used in this section, “cemetery” means any place of burial and
includes burial sites that contain American Indian burial objects placed with
or containing American Indian human remains.
(R.C. § 2927.11)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
   
132.01   Riot
   
132.02   Failure to disperse
   
132.03   Justifiable use of force to suppress riot
   
132.04   Disorderly conduct
   
132.05   Disturbing a lawful meeting
   
132.06   Misconduct at an emergency
   
132.07   Telecommunications harassment
   
132.08   Inducing panic
   
132.09   Making false alarms
   
132.10   Inciting to violence
   
132.11   Unlawful display of law enforcement emblem
   
132.12   Impersonating a peace officer
   
132.13   Safety of crowds attending live entertainment performances
   
132.14   Misconduct involving a public transportation system
   
132.15   Intoxication
Cross-reference:
   Personating an officer (fraud offense), see §
131.28
Statutory reference:
   Misuse of “Block Parent” or “McGruff House” symbol, see R.C. § 2917.46
§ 132.01 RIOT.
   (A)   No person shall participate with four or more others in a course of
disorderly conduct in violation of R.C. § 2917.11 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance:
      (1)   With purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of a
misdemeanor, other than disorderly conduct;
      (2)   With purpose to intimidate a public official or employee into
taking or refraining from official action, or with purpose to hinder, impede,
or obstruct a function of government;
      (3)   With purpose to hinder, impede, or obstruct the orderly process of
administration or instruction at an educational institution, or to interfere
with or disrupt lawful activities carried on at the institution.
   (B)   No person shall participate with four or more others with purpose to
do an act with unlawful force or violence, even though the act might otherwise
be lawful.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of riot, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 2917.03)
   (D)   For the purposes of prosecuting violations of this section, the
prosecution is not required to allege or prove that the offender expressly
agreed with four or more others to commit any act that constitutes a violation
this section prior to or while committing those acts.
(R.C. § 2917.031)
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated riot, felony provisions, see R.C. § 2917.02
§ 132.02 FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
   (A)   Where five or more persons are participating in a course of disorderly
conduct in violation of R.C. § 2917.11 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, and there are other persons in the vicinity whose presence creates
the likelihood of physical harm to persons or property or of serious public
inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm, a law enforcement officer or other public
official may order the participants and the other persons to disperse. No
person shall knowingly fail to obey the order.
   (B)   Nothing in this section requires persons to disperse who are peaceably
assembled for a lawful purpose.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to disperse.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3) of this section,
failure to disperse is a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Failure to disperse is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the
failure to obey the order described in division (A) of this section creates the
likelihood of physical harm to persons or is committed at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
(R.C. § 2917.04)
§ 132.03 JUSTIFIABLE USE OF FORCE TO SUPPRESS RIOT.
   A law enforcement officer or firefighter engaged in suppressing a riot or in
protecting persons or property during a riot:
   (A)   Is justified in using force, other than deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters;
   (B)   Is justified in using force, including deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters whose conduct is creating a substantial risk of
serious physical harm to persons.
(R.C. § 2917.05)
§ 132.04 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly cause inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm to
another, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Engaging in fighting, in threatening harm to persons or property,
or in violent or turbulent behavior;
      (2)   Making unreasonable noise or an offensively coarse utterance,
gesture, or display, or communicating unwarranted and grossly abusive language
to any person;
      (3)   Insulting, taunting, or challenging another, under circumstances in
which that conduct is likely to provoke a violent response;
      (4)   Hindering or preventing the movement of persons on a public street,
road, highway, or right-of-way, or to, from, within, or upon public or private
property, so as to interfere with the rights of others, and by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender;
      (5)   Creating a condition that is physically offensive to persons or
that presents a risk of physical harm to persons or property, by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender.
   (B)   No person while voluntarily intoxicated shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   In a public place or in the presence of two or more persons, engage
in conduct likely to be offensive or to cause inconvenience, annoyance, or
alarm to persons of ordinary sensibilities, which conduct the offender, if he
or she were not intoxicated, should know is likely to have such effect on
others;
      (2)   Engage in conduct or create a condition that presents a risk of
physical harm to himself, herself or another, or to the property of another.
   (C)   Violation of any statute or ordinance of which an element is operating
a motor vehicle, locomotive, watercraft, aircraft, or other vehicle while under
the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse is not a violation of division
(B) of this section.
   (D)   If a person appears to an ordinary observer to be intoxicated, it is
probable cause to believe that the person is voluntarily intoxicated for
purposes of division (B) of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disorderly conduct.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (E)(2) and (E)(3) of this
section, disorderly conduct is a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Disorderly conduct is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if any of
the following applies:
         (a)   The offender persists in disorderly conduct after reasonable
warning or request to desist.
         (b)   The offense is committed in the vicinity of a school or in a
school safety zone.
         (c)   The offense is committed in the presence of any law enforcement
officer, firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services
person, or other authorized person who is engaged in the person’s duties at the
scene of a fire, accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
         (d)   The offense is committed in the presence of any emergency
facility person who is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to three or more violations of division (B) of this section, R.C. § 2917.11(B),
or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation
of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SCHOOL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2925.01.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency medical
services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
(R.C. § 2917.11)
§ 132.05 DISTURBING A LAWFUL MEETING.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to prevent or disrupt a lawful meeting,
procession, or gathering, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Do any act which obstructs or interferes with the due conduct of
the meeting, procession, or gathering.
      (2)   Make any utterance, gesture, or display which outrages the
sensibilities of the group.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disturbing a lawful
meeting, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2917.12)
§ 132.06 MISCONDUCT AT AN EMERGENCY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Hamper the lawful operations of any law enforcement officer,
firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services person, or
other authorized person engaged in the person’s duties at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind;
      (2)   Hamper the lawful activities of any emergency facility person who
is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility;
      (3)   Fail to obey the lawful order of any law enforcement officer
engaged in the law enforcement officer’s duties at the scene of or in
connection with a fire, accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit access or deny
information to any news media representative in the lawful exercise of the news
media representative’s duties.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misconduct at an emergency.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If violation of this section creates a risk
of physical harm to persons or property, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      EMERGENCY FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency medical
services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
(R.C. § 2917.13)
§ 132.07 TELECOMMUNICATIONS HARASSMENT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a
telecommunication, or knowingly permit a telecommunication to be made from a
telecommunications device under the person’s control, to another, if the caller
does any of the following:
      (1)   Makes the telecommunication with purpose to harass, intimidate, or
abuse any person at the premises to which the telecommunication is made,
whether or not actual communication takes place between the caller and a
recipient;
      (2)   Describes, suggests, requests, or proposes that the caller, the
recipient of the telecommunication, or any other person engage in sexual
activity, and the recipient or another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made has requested, in a previous telecommunication or in
the immediate telecommunication, that the caller not make a telecommunication
to the recipient or to the premises to which the telecommunication is made;
      (3)   During the telecommunication, violates R.C. § 2903.21 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (4)   Knowingly states to the recipient of the telecommunication that the
caller intends to cause damage to or destroy public or private property, and
the recipient, any member of the recipient’s family, or any other person who
resides at the premises to which the telecommunication is made owns, leases,
resides, or works in, will at the time of the destruction or damaging be near
or in, has the responsibility of protecting, or insures the property that will
be destroyed or damaged;
      (5)   Knowingly makes the telecommunication to the recipient of the
telecommunication, to another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made, or to those premises, and the recipient or another
person at those premises previously has told the caller not to make a
telecommunication to those premises or to any persons at those premises;
      (6)   Knowingly makes any comment, request, suggestion, or proposal to
the recipient of the telecommunication that is threatening, intimidating,
menacing, coercive, or obscene with the intent to abuse, threaten, or harass
the recipient;
      (7)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly interrupts the
telecommunication service of any person;
      (8)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly transmits to any
person, regardless of whether the telecommunication is heard in its entirety,
any file, document, or other communication that prevents that person from using
the person’s telephone service or electronic communication device;
      (9)   Knowingly makes any false statement concerning the death, injury,
illness, disfigurement, reputation, indecent conduct, or criminal conduct of
the recipient of the telecommunication or family or household member of the
recipient with purpose to abuse, threaten, intimidate, or harass the recipient;
      (10)   Knowingly incites another person through a telecommunication or
other means to harass or participate in the harassment of a person;
      (11)   Knowingly alarms the recipient by making a telecommunication
without a lawful purpose at an hour or hours known to be inconvenient to the
recipient and in an offensive or repetitive manner.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall make or cause to be made a telecommunication or
permit a telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under
the person’s control, with purpose to abuse, threaten, or harass another
person.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly post a text or audio statement or an
image on an internet web site or web page for the purpose of abusing,
threatening, or harassing another person.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of telecommunications
harassment.
      (2)   A violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(5), (A)(6), (A)
(7), (A)(8), (A)(9), (A)(10), or (A)(11) or (B) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree on a first offense and a felony on each
subsequent offense, which shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(3), a violation
of division (A)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree on a
first offense and a felony on each subsequent offense, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If a violation of division (A)(4) of this section
results in economic harm of $1,000 or more, telecommunications harassment is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   No cause of action may be asserted in any court of this municipality
against any provider of a telecommunications service, interactive computer
service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, or against any
officer, employee, or agent of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, for any
injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly arises out of the
provider’s, officer’s, employee’s, or agent’s provision of information,
facilities, or assistance in accordance with the terms of a court order that is
issued in relation to the investigation or prosecution of an alleged violation
of this section. A provider of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, or an
officer, employee, or agent of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, is
immune from any civil or criminal liability for injury, death, or loss to
person or property that allegedly arises out of the provider’s, officer’s,
employee’s, or agent’s provision of information, facilities, or assistance in
accordance with the terms of a court order that is issued in relation to the
investigation or prosecution of an alleged violation of this section.
   (E)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person solely because the
person provided access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control, including
having provided capabilities that are incidental to providing access or
connection to or from the electronic method of remotely transferring the
information, and that do not include the creation of the content of the
material that is the subject of the access or connection. In addition, any
person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control shall not be
liable for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the receipt or
transmission through its service of any information that the person believes
is, or will be sent, in violation of this section.
      (2)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not create an affirmative duty
for any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method
of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control to block
the receipt or transmission through its service of any information that it
believes is, or will be sent, in violation of this section except as otherwise
provided by law.
      (3)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of this section or who knowingly
advertises the availability of material of that nature.
      (4)   A provider or user of an interactive computer service, as defined
in 47 U.S.C. § 230, shall neither be treated as the publisher or speaker of any
information provided by another information content provider, as defined in 47
U.S.C. § 230, nor held civilly or criminally liable for the creation or
development of information provided by another information content provider, as
defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230. Nothing in this division shall be construed to
protect a person from liability to the extent that the person developed or
created any content in violation of this section.
   (F)   Divisions (A)(5) to (A)(11) and (B)(2) of this section do not apply to
a person who, while employed or contracted by a newspaper, magazine, press
association, news agency, news wire service, cable channel or cable operator,
or radio or television station, is gathering, processing, transmitting,
compiling, editing, or disseminating information for the general public within
the scope of the person’s employment in that capacity or the person’s
contractual authority in that capacity.
   (G)   As used in divisions (A) through (D) of this section:
      CABLE OPERATOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
      CALLER. Means the person described in division (A) of this section who
makes or causes to be made a telecommunication or who permits a
telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under that
person’s control.
      ECONOMIC HARM. Means all direct, incidental and consequential pecuniary
harm suffered by a victim as a result of the criminal conduct. The term
includes but is not limited to all of the following:
         (a)   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         (b)   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         (c)   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is
shut down as a result of the criminal conduct;
         (d)   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division
(A)(9) of this section is committed:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse of
the recipient;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the recipient, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the recipient;
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the recipient, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
recipient.
         (b)   The natural parent of any child of whom the recipient of the
telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division (A)(9) of this
section is committed is the other natural parent or is the putative other
natural parent.
      PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has lived with
the recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in
division (A)(9) of this section is committed in a common law marital
relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting with the recipient, or who otherwise
has cohabited with the recipient within five years prior to the date of the
alleged commission of the act in question.
      SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
      TELECOMMUNICATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   (H)   Nothing in this section prohibits a person from making a
telecommunication to a debtor that is in compliance with the “Fair Debt
Collection Practices Act,” 15 U.S.C. § 1692, as amended, or the “Telephone
Consumer Protection Act,” 47 U.S.C. § 227, as amended.
(R.C. § 2917.21)
§ 132.08 INDUCING PANIC.
   (A)   No person shall cause the evacuation of any public place, or otherwise
cause serious public inconvenience or alarm, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Initiating or circulating a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false.
      (2)   Threatening to commit any offense of violence.
      (3)   Committing any offense, with reckless disregard of the likelihood
that its commission will cause serious public inconvenience or alarm.
   (B)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to any person
conducting an authorized fire or emergency drill.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of inducing panic.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3), inducing panic is
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If a violation of this section results in physical harm to any
person, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law. If a violation of this section results in economic harm of $1,000 or more,
inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the
public place involved in a violation of division (A)(1) is a school or an
institution of higher education, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. If a violation of this section pertains to a
purported, threatened or actual use of a weapon of mass destruction, inducing
panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or this code may be prosecuted under this section, the
other section, or both sections.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      BIOLOGICAL AGENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2917.33.
      ECONOMIC HARM. Means any of the following:
         (a)   All direct, incidental and consequential pecuniary harm suffered
by a victim as a result of the criminal conduct. “Economic harm” as described
in this division includes but is not limited to all of the following:
            1.   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            2.   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            3.   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is
shut down as a result of the criminal conduct;
            4.   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
         (b)   All costs incurred by the state or any political subdivision as
a result of, or in making any response to, the criminal conduct that
constituted the violation of this section or R.C. § 2917.32, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, including but not limited to all
costs so incurred by any law enforcement officers, firefighters, rescue
personnel, or emergency medical services personnel of the state or the
political subdivision.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSONNEL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2133.21.
      INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A state university or college as defined in R.C. § 3345.12(A)
(1), community college, state community college, university branch, or
technical college;
         (b)   A private, nonprofit college, university or other post-secondary
institution located in this state that possesses a certificate of authorization
issued by the Ohio Board of Regents pursuant to R.C. Chapter 1713;
         (c)   A post-secondary institution with a certificate of registration
issued by the State Board of Career Colleges and Schools pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 3332.
      SCHOOL. Means any school operated by a board of education or any school
for which the State Board of Education prescribes minimum standards under R.C.
§ 3301.07, whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or
training provided by the school is being conducted at the time a violation of
this section is committed.
      WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any weapon that is designed or intended to cause death or
serious physical harm through the release, dissemination, or impact of toxic or
poisonous chemicals, or other precursors;
         (b)   Any weapon involving a disease organism or biological agent;
         (c)   Any weapon that is designed to release radiation or
radioactivity at a level dangerous to human life;
         (d)   Any of the following, except to the extent that the item or
device in question is expressly excepted from the definition of “destructive
device” pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)(4) and regulations issued under that
section:
            1.   Any explosive, incendiary, or poison gas bomb, grenade, rocket
having a propellant charge of more than four ounces, missile having an
explosive or incendiary charge of more than one-quarter ounce, mine, or similar
device;
            2.   Any combination of parts either designed or intended for use
in converting any item or device into any item or device described in division
(d)1. of this definition and from which an item or device described in that
division may be readily assembled.
(R.C. § 2917.31)
§ 132.09 MAKING FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to cause public inconvenience or alarm.
      (2)   Knowingly cause a false alarm of fire or other emergency to be
transmitted to or within any organization, public or private, for dealing with
emergencies involving a risk of physical harm to persons or property.
      (3)   Report to any law enforcement agency an alleged offense or other
incident within its concern, knowing that the offense did not occur.
      (4)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to impede the operation of a critical
infrastructure facility.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any person conducting an authorized
fire or emergency drill.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making false alarms. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, making false alarms is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If a violation of this section results in economic harm of
$1,000 or more, making false alarms is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If a violation of this section pertains to a purported,
threatened, or actual use of a weapon of mass destruction, making false alarms
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or this code may be prosecuted under this section, the
other section, or both sections.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2911.21.
      ECONOMIC HARM and WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION. Have the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2917.31.
(R.C. § 2917.32)
§ 132.10 INCITING TO VIOLENCE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly engage in conduct designed to urge or incite
another to commit any offense of violence when either of the following apply:
      (1)   The conduct takes place under circumstances that create a clear and
present danger that any offense of violence will be committed.
      (2)   The conduct proximately results in the commission of any offense of
violence.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of inciting to violence. If
the offense of violence that the other person is being urged or incited to
commit is a misdemeanor, inciting to violence is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the offense of violence that the other person is being urged or
incited to commit is a felony, inciting to violence is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2917.01)
§ 132.11 UNLAWFUL DISPLAY OF LAW ENFORCEMENT EMBLEM.
   (A)   No person who is not entitled to do so shall knowingly display on a
motor vehicle the emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law
enforcement officers.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of the unlawful display of the
emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law enforcement
officers, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2913.441)
§ 132.12 IMPERSONATING A PEACE OFFICER.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Means an employee of the United States
who serves in a position the duties of which are primarily the investigation,
apprehension, or detention of individuals suspected or convicted of offenses
under the criminal laws of the United States.
      IMPERSONATE. Means to act the part of, assume the identity of, wear the
uniform or any part of the uniform of, or display the identification of a
particular person or of a member of a class of persons with purpose to make
another person believe that the actor is that particular person or is a member
of that class of persons.
      INVESTIGATOR OF THE BUREAU OF CRIMINAL IDENTIFICATION AND INVESTIGATION.
Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.11.
      PEACE OFFICER. A Sheriff, Deputy Sheriff, Marshal, deputy marshal, member
of the organized police department of a municipal corporation, or township
constable, who is employed by a political subdivision of this state; a member
of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under R.C. §
3735.31(D); a member of a police force employed by a regional transit authority
under R.C. § 306.35(Y); a state university law enforcement officer appointed
under R.C. § 3345.04; a veterans’ home police officer appointed under R.C. §
5907.02; a special police officer employed by a port authority under R.C. §
4582.04 or 4582.28; an officer, agent, or employee of the state or any of its
agencies, instrumentalities, or political subdivisions, upon whom, by statute,
a duty to conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain laws is imposed and
the authority to arrest violators is conferred, within limits of that statutory
duty and authority; or a state highway patrol trooper whose primary duties are
to preserve the peace, to protect life and property, and to enforce the laws,
ordinances, or rules of the state or any of its political subdivisions.
      PRIVATE POLICE OFFICER. Means any security guard, special police officer,
private detective, or other person who is privately employed in a police
capacity.
   (B)   No person shall impersonate a peace officer, private police officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation, or
federal law enforcement officer.
   (C)   No person, by impersonating a peace officer, private police officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation, or
federal law enforcement officer, shall arrest or detain any person, search any
person, or search the property of any person.
   (D)   No person, with purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of an
offense, shall impersonate a peace officer, private police officer, federal law
enforcement officer, an officer, agent or employee of the municipality or the
state, or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation.
   (E)   No person shall commit a felony while impersonating a peace officer,
private police officer, federal law enforcement officer, an officer, agent or
employee of the municipality or of the state, or investigator of the Bureau of
Criminal Identification and Investigation.
   (F)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B) of this
section that the impersonation of the peace officer, private police officer,
federal law enforcement officer, an officer, agent or employee of the
municipality or of the state, or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation was for a lawful purpose.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the purpose of a
violation of division (D) of this section is to commit or facilitate the
commission of a felony, a violation of division (D) is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. Whoever violates division (E) of this
section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.51)
Cross-reference:
   Personating an officer (fraud offense), see §
131.28
§ 132.13 SAFETY OF CROWDS ATTENDING LIVE ENTERTAINMENT PERFORMANCES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CONCERT. Means a musical performance of which the primary component is a
presentation by persons singing or playing musical instruments, that is
intended by its sponsors mainly, but not necessarily exclusively, for the
listening enjoyment of the audience, and that is held in a facility. The term
does not include any performance in which music is a part of the presentation
and the primary component of which is acting, dancing, a motion picture, a
demonstration of skills or talent other than singing or playing an instrument,
an athletic event, an exhibition or a speech.
      FACILITY. Means any structure that has a roof or partial roof and that
has walls that wholly surround the area on all sides, including but not limited
to a stadium, hall, arena, armory, auditorium, ballroom, exhibition hall,
convention center or music hall.
      LIVE ENTERTAINMENT PERFORMANCE. Means any live speech; any live musical
performance, including a concert; any live dramatic performance; any live
variety show; and any other live performance with respect to which the primary
intent of the audience can be construed to be viewing the performers. The term
does not include any form of entertainment with respect to which the person
purchasing a ticket routinely participates in amusements as well as views
performers.
      PERSON. Includes, in addition to an individual or entity specified in
R.C. § 1.59(C), any governmental entity.
      RESTRICTED ENTERTAINMENT AREA. Means any wholly or partially enclosed
area, whether indoors or outdoors, that has limited access through established
entrances or established turnstiles or similar devices.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall sell, offer to sell, or offer in return for a
donation, any ticket that is not numbered and that does not correspond to a
specific seat for admission to either of the following:
         (a)   A live entertainment performance that is not exempted under
division (D) of this section, that is held in a restricted entertainment area,
and for which more than 8,000 tickets are offered to the public;
         (b)   A concert that is not exempted under division (D) of this
section and for which more than 3,000 tickets are offered to the public.
      (2)   No person shall advertise any live entertainment performance as
described in division (B)(1)(a) of this section or any concert as described in
division (B)(1)(b) of this section, unless the advertisement contains the words
“Reserved Seats Only.”
   (C)   Unless exempted by division (D)(1) of this section, no person who owns
or operates any restricted entertainment area shall fail to open, maintain and
properly staff at least the number of entrances designated under division (E)
of this section for a minimum of 90 minutes prior to the scheduled start of any
live entertainment performance that is held in the restricted entertainment
area and for which more than 3,000 tickets are sold, offered for sale or
offered in return for a donation.
   (D)   (1)   A live entertainment performance, other than a concert, is
exempted from the provisions of divisions (B) and (C) of this section if both
of the following apply:
         (a)   The restricted entertainment area in which the performance is
held has at least eight entrances or, if both entrances and separate admission
turnstiles or similar devices are used, has at least eight turnstiles or
similar devices.
         (b)   The eight entrances or, if applicable, the eight turnstiles or
similar devices, are opened, maintained and properly staffed at least one hour
prior to the scheduled start of the performance.
      (2)   (a)   The officer responsible for public safety in the municipality
may, upon application of the sponsor of a concert covered by division (B) of
this section, exempt the concert from the provisions of that division if such
officer finds that the health, safety and welfare of the participants and
spectators would not be substantially affected by failure to comply with the
provisions of that division. In determining whether to grant an exemption, the
officer shall consider the following factors: the size and design of the
facility in which the concert is scheduled; the size, age and anticipated
conduct of the crowd expected to attend the concert; and the ability of the
sponsor to manage and control the expected crowd. If the sponsor of any concert
desires to obtain an exemption under this division, the sponsor shall apply to
the appropriate official on a form prescribed by that official. The official
shall issue an order that grants or denies the exemption within five days after
receipt of the application. The sponsor may appeal any order that denies an
exemption to the Court of Common Pleas of the county in which the facility is
located.
         (b)   If an official grants an exemption under division (D)(2)(a) of
this section, the official shall designate an on-duty law enforcement officer
to be present at the concert. The designated officer has authority to issue
orders to all security personnel at the concert to protect the health, safety
and welfare of the participants and spectators.
      (3)   Notwithstanding division (D)(2) of this section, in the case of a
concert held in a facility located on the campus of an educational institution
covered by R.C. § 3345.04, a state university law enforcement officer appointed
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3345.04 and 3345.21 shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Exercise the authority to grant exemptions provided by division
(D)(2)(a) of this section in lieu of an official designated in that division;
         (b)   If the officer grants an exemption under division (D)(3)(a) of
this section, designate an on-duty state university law enforcement officer to
be present at the concert. The designated officer has authority to issue orders
to all security personnel at the concert to protect the health, safety and
welfare of the participants and spectators.
   (E)   (1)   Unless a live entertainment performance is exempted by division
(D)(1) of this section, the officer responsible for public safety within the
municipality shall designate, for purposes of division (C) of this section, the
minimum number of entrances required to be opened, maintained and staffed at
each live entertainment performance so as to permit crowd control and reduce
congestion at the entrances. The designation shall be based on such factors as
the size and nature of the crowd expected to attend the live entertainment
performance, the length of time prior to the live entertainment performance
that crowds are expected to congregate at the entrances and the amount of
security provided at the restricted entertainment area.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (E)(1) of this section, a state university
law enforcement officer appointed pursuant to R.C. §§ 3345.04 and 3345.21 shall
designate the number of entrances required to be opened, maintained and staffed
in the case of a live entertainment performance that is held at a restricted
entertainment area located on the campus of an educational institution covered
by R.C. § 3345.04.
   (F)   No person shall enter into any contract for a live entertainment
performance that does not permit or require compliance with this section.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to a live entertainment performance
held in a restricted entertainment area if one admission ticket entitles the
holder to view or participate in three or more different games, rides,
activities or live entertainment performances occurring simultaneously at
different sites within the restricted entertainment area and if the initial
admittance entrance to the restricted entertainment area, for which the ticket
is required, is separate from the entrance to any specific live entertainment
performance and an additional ticket is not required for admission to the
particular live entertainment performance.
      (2)   This section does not apply to a symphony orchestra performance, a
ballet performance, horse races, dances or fairs.
   (H)   This section does not prohibit the Legislative Authority from imposing
additional requirements, not in conflict with the section, for the promotion or
holding of live entertainment performances.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (B), (C) or (F) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If any individual suffers physical harm to
the individual’s person as a result of a violation of this section, the
sentencing court shall consider this factor in favor of imposing a term of
imprisonment upon the offender.
(R.C. § 2917.40)
§ 132.14 MISCONDUCT INVOLVING A PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM.
   (A)   As used in this section, PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM means a county
transit system operated in accordance with R.C. §§ 306.01 through 306.13, a
regional transit authority operated in accordance with R.C. §§ 306.30 through
306.71, or a regional transit commission operated in accordance with R.C. §§
306.80 through 306.90.
   (B)   No person shall evade the payment of the known fares of a public
transportation system.
   (C)   No person shall alter any transfer, pass, ticket or token of a public
transportation system with the purpose of evading the payment of fares or of
defrauding the system.
   (D)   No person shall do any of the following while in any facility or on
any vehicle of a public transportation system:
      (1)   Play sound equipment without the proper use of a private earphone;
      (2)   Smoke, eat or drink in any area where the activity is clearly
marked as being prohibited; or
      (3)   Expectorate upon a person, facility or vehicle.
   (E)   No person shall write, deface, draw or otherwise mark on any facility
or vehicle of a public transportation system.
   (F)   No person shall fail to comply with a lawful order of a public
transportation system police officer, and no person shall resist, obstruct or
abuse a public transportation police officer in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
   (G)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of
misconduct involving a public transportation system.
      (1)   A violation of division (B), (C), or (F) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   A violation of division (D) of this section is a minor misdemeanor
on a first offense. If a person previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of any division of this section or of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any division of this section, a
violation of division (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (E) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 75% of each fine paid to
satisfy a sentence imposed for a violation of any of the provisions of this
section shall be deposited into the treasury of the County and 25% shall be
deposited with the county transit board, regional transit authority or regional
transit commission that operates the public transportation system involved in
the violation, unless the Board of County Commissioners operates the public
transportation system, in which case 100% of each fine shall be deposited into
the treasury of the County.
(R.C. § 2917.41)
§ 132.15 INTOXICATION.
   (A)   No person shall be found in the state of intoxication or, being
intoxicated, shall disturb the peace and good order or shall conduct himself or
herself in a disorderly manner.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 15-12, passed 8-27-2012; Ord. 02-18, passed 2-12-2018)
CHAPTER 133: SEX OFFENSES
Section
   
133.01   Definitions
   
133.02   Unlawful sexual conduct with a minor
   
133.03   Sexual imposition
   
133.04   Public indecency
   
133.05   Voyeurism
   
133.06   Polygraph examinations for victims: restrictions on use
   
133.07   Procuring; engagement in sexual activity for hire
   
133.08   Soliciting; loitering to engage in
   
133.09   Prostitution
   
133.10   Disseminating matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.11   Displaying matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.12   Deception to obtain matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.13   Rules of evidence
   
133.14   Declaratory judgment
   
133.15   Injunction; abatement of nuisance
   
133.16   Unlawful operation of viewing booths depicting sexual conduct
   
133.17   Juveniles on the premises of adult entertainment establishments
prohibited
   
133.18   Sexually oriented businesses; illegal operation and activity
   
133.19   Unlawful advertising of massage
   
133.20   Nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images
 
   
133.99   Sentencing for sexually oriented offenses; sexual predators;
registration
Statutory reference:
   Assistance to victims of sexual assault, see R.C. §§ 2907.28 et seq.
   Child victim, disposition of, see R.C. § 2945.481
   Suppression of information at trial, see R.C. § 2907.11
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   HARMFUL TO JUVENILES. That quality of any material or performance describing
or representing nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement, or sado-masochistic
abuse in any form to which all of the following apply:
      (1)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, appeals to
the prurient interest of juveniles in sex.
      (2)   The material or performance is patently offensive to prevailing
standards in the adult community as a whole with respect to what is suitable
for juveniles.
      (3)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, lacks
serious literary, artistic, political, and scientific value for juveniles.
   JUVENILE. Any unmarried person under 18 years of age.
   MATERIAL. Any book, magazine, newspaper, pamphlet, poster, print, picture,
figure, image, description, motion picture film, video cassette, laser disc,
phonograph record, cassette tape, compact disc, or other tangible thing capable
of arousing interest through sight, sound, or touch and includes an image or
text appearing on a computer monitor, television screen, liquid crystal
display, or similar display device or an image or text recorded on a computer
hard disk, computer floppy disk, compact disk, magnetic tape, or similar data
storage device.
   MENTAL HEALTH CLIENT OR PATIENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.51.
   MENTAL HEALTH PROFESSIONAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.115.
   MINOR. A person under the age of 18.
   NUDITY. The showing, representation, or depiction of human male or female
genitals, pubic area, or buttocks with less than a full, opaque covering, or of
a female breast with less than a full, opaque covering of any portion thereof
below the top of the nipple, or of covered male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state.
   OBSCENE. When considered as a whole, and judged with reference to ordinary
adults or, if it is designed for sexual deviates or other specially susceptible
group, judged with reference to that group, any material or performance is
“obscene” if any of the following apply:
      (1)   Its dominant appeal is to prurient interest.
      (2)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
sexual activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, or nudity in a way that tends
to represent human beings as mere objects of sexual appetite.
      (3)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
bestiality or extreme or bizarre violence, cruelty, or brutality.
      (4)   Its dominant tendency is to appeal to scatological interest by
displaying or depicting human bodily functions of elimination in a way that
inspires disgust or revulsion in persons with ordinary sensibilities, without
serving any genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral, or artistic
purpose.
      (5)   It contains a series of displays or descriptions of sexual
activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, nudity, bestiality, extreme or
bizarre violence, cruelty, or brutality, or human bodily functions of
elimination, the cumulative effect of which is a dominant tendency to appeal to
prurient or scatological interest, when the appeal to such an interest is
primarily for its own sake or for commercial exploitation, rather than
primarily for a genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral, or
artistic purpose.
   PERFORMANCE. Any motion picture, preview, trailer, play, show, skit, dance,
or other exhibition performed before an audience.
   PROSTITUTE. A male or female who promiscuously engages in sexual activity
for hire, regardless of whether the hire is paid to the prostitute or to
another.
   SADO-MASOCHISTIC ABUSE. Flagellation or torture by or upon a person or the
condition of being fettered, bound, or otherwise physically restrained.
   SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Sexual conduct or sexual contact, or both.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT. Vaginal intercourse between a male and female; anal
intercourse, fellatio, and cunnilingus between persons regardless of sex; and,
without privilege to do so, the insertion, however slight, of any part of the
body or any instrument, apparatus, or other object into the vaginal or anal
opening of another. Penetration, however slight, is sufficient to complete
vaginal or anal intercourse.
   SEXUAL CONTACT. Any touching of an erogenous zone of another, including
without limitation the thigh, genitals, buttock, pubic region, or, if the
person is a female, a breast, for the purpose of sexually arousing or
gratifying either person.
   SEXUAL EXCITEMENT. The condition of human male or female genitals when in a
state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   SPOUSE. A person married to an offender at the time of an alleged offense,
except that such person shall not be considered the spouse when any of the
following apply:
      (1)   When the parties have entered into a written separation agreement
pursuant to R.C. § 3103.06.
      (2)   When an action is pending between the parties for annulment,
divorce, dissolution of marriage, or legal separation.
      (3)   In the case of an action for legal separation, after the effective
date of the judgment for legal separation.
(R.C. § 2907.01)
§ 133.02 UNLAWFUL SEXUAL CONDUCT WITH A MINOR.
   (A)   No person who is 18 years of age or older shall engage in sexual
conduct with another who is not the spouse of the offender, when the offender
knows the other person is 13 years of age or older but less than 16 years of
age, or the offender is reckless in that regard.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful sexual conduct
with a minor.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2), unlawful sexual
conduct with a minor is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if
the offender is less than four years older than the other person, unlawful
sexual conduct with a minor is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of R.C. § 2907.02, 2907.03 or 2907.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, or a violation of former R.C. § 2907.12, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, unlawful sexual conduct with a
minor is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.04)
§ 133.03 SEXUAL IMPOSITION.
   (A)   No person shall have sexual contact with another, not the spouse of
the offender; cause another, not the spouse of the offender, to have sexual
contact with the offender; or cause two or more other persons to have sexual
contact when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The offender knows that the sexual contact is offensive to the
other person, or one of the other persons, or is reckless in that regard.
      (2)   The offender knows that the other person’s, or one of the other
person’s ability to appraise the nature of or control the offender’s or
touching person’s conduct is substantially impaired.
      (3)   The offender knows that the other person, or one of the other
persons, submits because of being unaware of the sexual contact.
      (4)   The other person, or one of the other persons, is 13 years of age
or older but less than 16 years of age, whether or not the offender knows the
age of the person, and the offender is at least 18 years of age and four or
more years older than the other person.
      (5)   The offender is a mental health professional, the other person or
one of the other persons is a mental health client or patient of the offender,
and the offender induces the other person who is the client or patient to
submit by falsely representing to the other person who is the client or patient
that the sexual contact is necessary for mental health treatment purposes.
   (B)   No person shall be convicted of a violation of this section solely
upon the victim’s testimony unsupported by other evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of sexual imposition, a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section, R.C. § 2907.02, 2907.03,
2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, former R.C. § 2907.12, or a substantially equivalent
state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, R.C. § 2907.02,
2907.03, 2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, former R.C. § 2907.12, or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any combination of those
sections, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree and,
notwithstanding the range of jail terms prescribed in R.C. § 2929.24, the court
may impose on the offender a definite jail term of not more than one year.
(R.C. § 2907.06)
Statutory reference:
   Gross sexual imposition, felony, see R.C. § 2907.05
   Notice to licensing board or agency upon indictment, conviction or guilty
plea of mental health
    professional, see R.C. §§ 2907.17 and 2907.18
§ 133.04 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following, under
circumstances in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and
affront others who are in the person’s physical proximity and who are not
members of the person’s household:
      (1)   Expose the persons’s private parts.
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct or masturbation.
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following, under circumstances
in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and affront another
person who is in the person’s physical proximity, who is a minor, and who is
not the spouse of the offender:
      (1)   Engage in masturbation.
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct.
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
      (4)   Expose the person’s private parts with the purpose of personal
sexual arousal or gratification or to lure the minor into sexual activity.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public indecency and
shall be punished as provided in divisions (C)(2), (C)(3), (C)(4), and (C)(5)
of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(2), a violation
of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the third degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations
of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by the
offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more
violations of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(3), a violation
of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the second degree or, if any person who was likely to view
and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or a substantially equivalent
state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if any person who was
likely to view and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(4), a violation
of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(5), a violation
of division (B)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of
this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (B)(4) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   If either of the following applies, the court may determine at
the time of sentencing whether to classify the offender as a tier I sex
offender/child-victim offender for a violation of division (B)(4) of this
section:
         (a)   The offender is less than ten years older than the other person.
         (b)   The offender is ten or more years older than the other person
and the offender has not previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any
violation of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance.
      (2)   If the offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (B)(4) of this section, is ten or more years older than the other
person, and previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation
of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the court shall issue an order at the time of sentencing that
classifies the offender as a tier I sex offender/child-victim offender subject
to registration under R.C. §§ 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05, and 2950.06.
(R.C. § 2907.09)
   (E)   A mother is entitled to breast-feed her baby in any location of a
place of public accommodation, as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, wherein the mother
otherwise is permitted.
(R.C. § 3781.55)
Statutory reference:
   Bail considerations for persons charged, see R.C. § 2907.41
§ 133.05 VOYEURISM.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another, to spy or eavesdrop upon another.
   (B)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another to videotape, film, photograph, or otherwise record the
other person in a state of nudity.
   (C)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another to videotape, film, photograph, otherwise record, or spy or
eavesdrop upon the other person in a state of nudity if the other person is a
minor.
   (D)   No person shall secretly or surreptitiously videotape, film,
photograph, or otherwise record another person under or through the clothing
being worn by that person for the purpose of viewing the body of, or the
undergarments worn by, that other person.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of voyeurism.
      (1)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (4)   A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.08)
§ 133.06 POLYGRAPH EXAMINATIONS FOR VICTIMS: RESTRICTIONS ON USE.
   (A)   (1)   A peace officer, prosecutor, or other public official shall not
ask or require a victim of an alleged sex offense to submit to a polygraph
examination as a condition for proceeding with the investigation of the alleged
sex offense.
      (2)   The refusal of the victim of an alleged sex offense to submit to a
polygraph examination shall not prevent the investigation of the alleged sex
offense, the filing of criminal charges with respect to the alleged sex
offense, or the prosecution of the alleged perpetrator of the alleged sex
offense.
   (B)   As used in this section:
      PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.51.
      POLYGRAPH EXAMINATION. Means any mechanical or electrical instrument or
device of any type used or allegedly used to examine, test, or question an
individual for the purpose of determining the individual’s truthfulness.
      PROSECUTION. Means the prosecution of criminal charges in a criminal
prosecution or the prosecution of a delinquent child complaint in a delinquency
proceeding.
      PROSECUTOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
      PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 117.01.
      SEX OFFENSE. Means a violation of any provision of §§
133.02 to
133.05 or R.C. §§ 2907.02 to 2907.09.
(R.C. § 2907.10)
§ 133.07 PROCURING; ENGAGEMENT IN SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE.
   (A)   No person, knowingly and for gain, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Entice or solicit another to patronize a prostitute or brothel;
      (2)   Procure a prostitute for another to patronize, or take or direct
another at the other’s request to any place for the purpose of patronizing a
prostitute.
   (B)   No person, having authority or responsibility over the use of
premises, shall knowingly permit the premises to be used for the purpose of
engaging in sexual activity for hire.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of
procuring. Except as otherwise provided in this division, procuring is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the prostitute who is procured, patronized,
or otherwise involved in a violation of division (A)(2) of this section is
under 18 years of age at the time of the violation, regardless of whether the
offender who violates division (A)(2) of this section knows the prostitute’s
age, or if a prostitute who engages in sexual activity for hire in premises
used in violation of division (B) of this section is under 18 years of age at
the time of the violation, regardless of whether the offender who violates
division (B) of this section knows the prostitute’s age, procuring is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.23)
   (D)   No person shall recklessly induce, entice, or procure another to
engage in sexual activity for hire in exchange for the person giving anything
of value to the other person.
   (E)   As used in division (D) of this section, SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE
means an implicit or explicit agreement to provide sexual activity in exchange
for anything of value paid to the person engaging in such sexual activity, to
any person trafficking that person, or to any person associated with either
such person.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of engaging in
prostitution, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In sentencing the offender
under this division, the court shall require the offender to attend an
education or treatment program aimed at preventing persons from inducing,
enticing, or procuring another to engage in sexual activity for hire in
exchange for the person giving anything of value to the other person and,
notwithstanding the fine specified in R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a) for a misdemeanor
of the first degree, the court may impose upon the offender a fine of not more
than $1,500.
(R.C. § 2907.231)
§ 133.08 SOLICITING; LOITERING TO ENGAGE IN.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly solicit another to engage in sexual activity
for hire in exchange for the person receiving anything of value from the other
person.
   (B)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in conduct in violation of division (A) of this section.
   (C)   As used in division (A) of this section, SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE
means an implicit or explicit agreement to provide sexual activity in exchange
for anything of value paid to the person engaging in such sexual activity, to
any person trafficking that person, or to any person associated with either
such person.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
soliciting. Soliciting is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of engaging
in solicitation after a positive HIV test, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.24)
   (E)   No person, with purpose to solicit another to engage in sexual
activity for hire and while in or near a public place, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Beckon to, stop or attempt to stop another;
      (2)   Engage or attempt to engage another in conversation;
      (3)   Stop or attempt to stop the operator of a vehicle or approach a
stationary vehicle;
      (4)   If the offender is the operator of or a passenger in a vehicle,
stop, attempt to stop, beckon to, attempt to beckon to, or entice another to
approach or enter the vehicle of which the offender is the operator or in which
the offender is the passenger;
      (5)   Interfere with the free passage of another.
   (F)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in conduct in violation of division (E) of this section.
   (G)   As used in division (E) of this section:
      PUBLIC PLACE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A street, road, highway, thoroughfare, bikeway, walkway,
sidewalk, bridge, alley, alleyway, plaza, park, driveway, parking lot or
transportation facility.
         (b)   A doorway or entrance way to a building that fronts on a place
described in division (a) of this definition.
         (c)   A place not described in division (a) or (b) of this definition
that is open to the public.
      VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   (H)   (1)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of
loitering to engage in solicitation, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of
loitering to engage in solicitation after a positive HIV test, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.241)
Statutory reference:
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.09 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   No person shall engage in sexual activity for hire.
   (B)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in sexual activity for hire.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
prostitution, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of engaging
in prostitution after a positive HIV test, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.25)
Statutory reference:
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.10 DISSEMINATING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person, with knowledge of its character or content, shall
recklessly do any of following:
      (1)   Directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit,
rent, or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles any material or performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles;
      (2)   Directly offer or agree to sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent, or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law
enforcement officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement
officers posing as juveniles any material or performance that is obscene or
harmful to juveniles;
      (3)   While in the physical proximity of the juvenile or law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, allow any juvenile or law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile to review or peruse any material or view any live
performance that is harmful to juveniles.
   (B)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section
that involves material or a performance that is harmful to juveniles but not
obscene:
      (1)   The defendant is the parent, guardian, or spouse of the juvenile
involved.
      (2)   The juvenile involved, at the time of the conduct in question, was
accompanied by his or her parent or guardian who, with knowledge of its
character, consented to the material or performance being furnished or
presented to the juvenile.
      (3)   The juvenile exhibited to the defendant or his or her agent or
employee a draft card, driver’s license, birth record, marriage license, or
other official or apparently official document purporting to show that the
juvenile was 18 years of age or over or married, and the person to whom the
document was exhibited did not otherwise have reasonable cause to believe that
the juvenile was under the age of 18 and unmarried.
   (C)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section,
involving material or a performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles,
that the material or performance was furnished or presented for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, governmental, judicial, or other proper
purpose, by a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher,
librarian, clergy, prosecutor, judge, or other proper person.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, mistake of
age is not a defense to a charge under this section.
   (D)   (1)   A person directly sells, delivers, furnishes, disseminates,
provides, exhibits, rents, or presents or directly offers or agrees to sell,
deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent, or present material or a
performance to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section by means of an electronic method of
remotely transmitting information if the person knows or has reason to believe
that the person receiving the information is a juvenile or the group of persons
receiving the information are juveniles.
      (2)   A person remotely transmitting information by means of a method of
mass distribution does not directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent, or present or directly offer or agree to sell, deliver,
furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent, or present the material or
performance in question to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section if either of the following applies:
         (a)   The person has inadequate information to know or have reason to
believe that a particular recipient of the information or offer is a juvenile.
         (b)   The method of mass distribution does not provide the person the
ability to prevent a particular recipient from receiving the information.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disseminating matter
harmful to juveniles. If the material or performance involved is harmful to
juveniles except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the material or performance
involved is obscene, violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.31)
   (F)   Presumptions, notice and defense.
      (1)   An owner or manager, or agent or employee of an owner or manager,
of a bookstore, newsstand, theater, or other commercial establishment engaged
in selling material or exhibiting performances, who, in the course of business
does any of the acts prohibited by this section is presumed to have knowledge
of the character of the material or performance involved if the owner, manager,
or agent or employee of the owner or manager has actual notice of the nature of
such material or performance, whether or not the owner, manager, or agent or
employee of the owner or manager has precise knowledge of its contents.
      (2)   Without limitation on the manner in which such notice may be given,
actual notice of the character of material or a performance may be given in
writing by the chief legal officer of the municipality. Such notice, regardless
of the manner in which it is given, shall identify the sender, identify the
material or performance involved, state whether it is obscene or harmful to
juveniles, and bear the date of such notice.
      (3)   This §
133.10 does not apply to a motion picture operator or projectionist acting
within the scope of employment as an employee of the owner or manager of the
theater or other place for the showing of motion pictures to the general
public, and having no managerial responsibility or financial interest in the
operator’s or projectionist’s place of employment, other than wages.
      (4)   (a)   The provisions of §§
133.10,
133.11 and
133.12(A) do not apply to a person solely because the person provided access or
connection to or from an electronic method of remotely transferring information
not under that person’s control, including having provided capabilities that
are incidental to providing access or connection to or from the electronic
method of remotely transferring the information, and that do not include the
creation of the content of the material that is the subject of the access or
connection.
         (b)   Division (F)(4)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who conspires with an entity actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of §
133.10,
33.11 and
133.12 or who knowingly advertises the availability of material of that nature.
         (c)   Division (F)(4)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who provides access or connection to an electronic method of remotely
transferring information that is engaged in the violation of §
133.10,
33.11 and
133.12 and that contain content that person has selected and introduced into
the electronic method of remotely transferring information or content over
which that person exercises editorial control.
      (5)   An employer is not guilty of a violation of §
133.10,
33.11 and
133.12 based on the actions of an employee or agent of the employer unless the
employee’s or agent’s conduct is within the scope of the employee’s or agent’s
employment or agency, and the employer does either of the following:
         (a)   With knowledge of the employee’s or agent’s conduct, the
employer authorizes or ratifies the conduct.
         (b)   The employer recklessly disregards the employee’s or agent’s
conduct.
      (6)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under §
133.10 or
133.11 as the section applies to an image transmitted through the internet or
other electronic method of remotely transmitting information that the person
charged with violating the section has taken, in good faith, reasonable,
effective, and appropriate actions under the circumstances to restrict or
prevent access by juveniles to material that is harmful to juveniles, including
any method that is feasible under available technology.
(R.C. § 2907.35)
§ 133.11 DISPLAYING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person who has custody, control, or supervision of a commercial
establishment, with knowledge of the character or content of the material
involved, shall display at the establishment any material that is harmful to
juveniles and that is open to view by juveniles as part of the invited general
public.
   (B)   It is not a violation of division (A) of this section if the material
in question is displayed by placing it behind “blinder racks” or similar
devices that cover at least the lower two-thirds of the material, if the
material in question is wrapped or placed behind the counter, or if the
material in question otherwise is covered or located so that the portion that
is harmful to juveniles is not open to the view of juveniles.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of displaying matter harmful
to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day during which the
offender is in violation of this section constitutes a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2907.311)
Cross-reference:
   Presumptions, notice and defense, see §
133.10(F)
§ 133.12 DECEPTION TO OBTAIN MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of enabling a juvenile to obtain any
material or gain admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles,
shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is the parent, guardian, or spouse
of the juvenile.
      (2)   Furnish the juvenile with any identification or document purporting
to show that the juvenile is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (B)   No juvenile, for the purpose of obtaining any material or gaining
admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles, shall do either of
the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is 18 years of age or over or
married.
      (2)   Exhibit any identification or document purporting to show that he
or she is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of deception to obtain matter
harmful to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the second degree. A juvenile who
violates division (B) of this section shall be adjudged an unruly child, with
the disposition of the case as may be appropriate under R.C. Chapter 2151.
(R.C. § 2907.33)
Cross-reference:
   Presumptions, notice and defense, see §
133.10(F)
Statutory reference:
   Juvenile Court, see R.C. Chapter 2151
§ 133.13 RULES OF EVIDENCE.
   (A)   In any case in which it is necessary to prove that a place is a
brothel, evidence as to the reputation of such place and as to the reputation
of the persons who inhabit or frequent it is admissible on the question of
whether such place is or is not a brothel.
   (B)   In any case in which it is necessary to prove that a person is a
prostitute, evidence as to the reputation of such person is admissible on the
question of whether such person is or is not a prostitute.
   (C)   In any prosecution for a violation of §§
133.07 through
133.09, proof of a prior conviction of the accused of any such offense or
substantially equivalent offense is admissible in support of the charge.
   (D)   The prohibition contained in R.C. § 2317.02(D) against testimony by a
husband or wife concerning communications between them does not apply, and the
accused’s spouse may testify concerning any such communication in any of the
following cases:
      (1)   When the husband or wife is charged with a violation of §
133.07 and the spouse testifying was the prostitute involved in the offense or
the person who used the offender’s premises to engage in sexual activity for
hire;
      (2)   When the husband or wife is charged with a violation of §
133.08(A) or §
133.09.
(R.C. § 2907.26)
§ 133.14 DECLARATORY JUDGMENT.
   (A)   Without limitation on the persons otherwise entitled to bring an
action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2721, involving the
same issue, the following persons have standing to bring a declaratory judgment
action to determine whether particular materials or performances are obscene or
harmful to juveniles:
      (1)   The chief legal officer of the municipality if and when there is
reasonable cause to believe that R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, is being or is about to be
violated;
      (2)   Any person who, pursuant to R.C. § 2907.35(B) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, has received notice in writing from the chief
legal officer stating that particular materials or performances are obscene or
harmful to juveniles.
   (B)   Any party to an action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to division
(A) of this section is entitled, upon the party’s request, to trial on the
merits within five days after joinder of the issues, and the court shall render
judgment within five days after trial is concluded.
   (C)   An action for a declaratory judgement pursuant to division (A) of this
section shall not be brought during the pendency of any civil action or
criminal prosecution when the character of the particular materials or
performances involved is at issue in the pending case, and either of the
following applies:
      (1)   Either of the parties to the action for a declaratory judgment is a
party to the pending case;
      (2)   A judgment in the pending case will necessarily constitute res
judicata as to the character of the materials or performances involved.
   (D)   A civil action or criminal prosecution in which the character of
particular materials or performances is at issue, brought during the pendency
of an action for a declaratory judgment involving the same issue, shall be
stayed during the pendency of the action for a declaratory judgment.
   (E)   The fact that a violation of R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, occurs prior to a judicial
determination of the character of the material or performance involved in the
violation does not relieve the offender of criminal liability for the
violation, even though prosecution may be stayed pending the judicial
determination.
(R.C. § 2907.36)
§ 133.15 INJUNCTION; ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Where it appears that R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, is being or is about to be
violated, the chief legal officer of the municipality may bring an action to
enjoin the violation. The defendant, upon his or her request, is entitled to
trial on the merits within five days after the joinder of the issues, and the
court shall render judgment within five days after the trial is concluded.
   (B)   Premises used or occupied for repeated violations of R.C. § 2907.31 or
R.C. § 2907.32, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2907.37)
Statutory reference:
   Disseminating matter harmful to juveniles, felony, see R.C. § 2907.31
   Pandering obscenity, felony, see R.C. § 2907.32
§ 133.16 UNLAWFUL OPERATION OF VIEWING BOOTHS DEPICTING SEXUAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Means an entity that is open to the public and
to which either of the following applies:
         (a)   It has a substantial or significant portion of its stock in
trade of the sale, rental, or viewing of visual materials or performances
depicting sexual conduct.
         (b)   It has as a principal business purpose the sale, rental, or
viewing of visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct.
      VISUAL MATERIALS OR PERFORMANCES. Means films, videos, CD-ROM discs,
streaming video, or other motion pictures.
   (B)   No person who has custody, control, or supervision of a commercial
establishment, with knowledge of the character of the visual material or
performance involved, shall knowingly permit the use of, or offer the use of,
viewing booths, stalls, or partitioned portions of a room located in the
commercial establishment for the purpose of viewing visual materials or
performances depicting sexual conduct unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The inside of each booth, stall, or partitioned room is visible
from, and at least one side of each booth, stall, or partitioned room is open
to, a continuous and contiguous main aisle or hallway that is open to the
public areas of the commercial establishment and is not obscured by any
curtain, door, or other covering or enclosure.
      (2)   No booth, stall, or partitioned room is designed, constructed,
pandered, or allowed to be used for the purpose of encouraging or facilitating
nudity or sexual activity on the part of or between patrons or members of the
public, and no booth, stall, or partitioned room has any aperture, hole, or
opening for the purpose of encouraging or facilitating nudity or sexual
activity.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that
either of the following applies to the involved visual materials or
performances:
      (1)   The visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct are
disseminated or presented for a bona fide medical, scientific, educational,
religious, governmental, judicial, or other proper purpose and by or to a
physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher, person pursuing bona
fide studies or research, librarian, member of the clergy, prosecutor, judge,
or other person having a proper interest in the visual materials or
performances.
      (2)   The visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct,
taken as a whole, would be found by a reasonable person to have serious
literary, artistic, political, or scientific value or are presented or
disseminated in good faith for a serious literary, artistic, political, or
scientific purpose and are not pandered for their prurient appeal.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of permitting unlawful
operation of viewing booths depicting sexual conduct, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 2907.38)
§ 133.17 JUVENILES ON THE PREMISES OF ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ADULT ARCADE. Means any place to which the public is permitted or invited
in which coin- operated, slug-operated, or electronically, electrically, or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other
image-producing devices are regularly maintained to show images to five or
fewer persons per machine at any one time, and in which the images so displayed
are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon matter exhibiting or
describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE.
         (a)   Means a commercial establishment that, for any form of
consideration, has as a significant or substantial portion of its stock-in-
trade in, derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues from,
devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior business or
advertising to, or maintains a substantial section of its sales or display
space for the sale or rental of any of the following:
            1.   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, slides, or
other visual representations, that are characterized by their emphasis upon the
exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas;
            2.   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia that are designed for
use or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of self or others.
         (b)   Includes a commercial establishment as defined in R.C. §
2907.38. An establishment may have other principal business purposes that do
not involve the offering for sale, rental, or viewing of materials exhibiting
or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas and
still be categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty store, or adult video
store. The existence of other principal business purposes does not exempt an
establishment from being categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, or adult video store so long as one of its principal business purposes
is offering for sale or rental, for some form of consideration, such materials
that exhibit or describe specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
      ADULT CABARET. Means a nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant, bottle
club, or similar commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages
are served, that regularly features any of the following:
         (a)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity;
         (b)   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities;
         (c)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions that are distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT. Means the sale, rental, or exhibition, for any form
of consideration, of books, films, video cassettes, magazines, periodicals, or
live performances that are characterized by an emphasis on the exposure or
display of specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activity.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT. Means an adult arcade, adult
bookstore, adult novelty store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motion
picture theater, adult theater, nude or seminude model studio, or sexual
encounter establishment. An establishment in which a medical practitioner,
psychologist, psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the
state engages in medically approved and recognized therapy, including but not
limited to massage therapy, as regulated pursuant to R.C. § 4731.15, is not an
“adult entertainment establishment”.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. Means a commercial establishment where
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar photographic
reproductions that are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon
the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas are regularly shown for any form of consideration.
      ADULT THEATER. Means a theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar
commercial establishment that, for any form of consideration, regularly
features persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity or live
performances that are characterized by their emphasis upon the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
      DISTINGUISHED OR CHARACTERIZED BY THEIR EMPHASIS UPON. Means the dominant
or principal character and theme of the object described by this phrase. For
instance, when the phrase refers to films “that are distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas”, the films so described are
those whose dominant or principal character and theme are the exhibition or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      NUDE OR SEMINUDE MODEL STUDIO. Means any place where a person, who
regularly appears in a state of nudity or seminudity, is provided for money or
any other form of consideration to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted,
sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by other persons. A modeling
class or studio is not a nude or seminude model studio and is not subject to
this chapter if it is operated in any of the following ways:
         (a)   By a college or university supported entirely or partly by
taxation;
         (b)   By a private college or university that maintains and operates
educational programs, the credits for which are transferable to a college or
university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
         (c)   In a structure that has no sign visible from the exterior of the
structure and no other advertising indicating that a person appearing in a
state of nudity or seminudity is available for viewing, if in order to
participate in a class in the structure, a student must enroll at least three
days in advance of the class and if not more than one nude or seminude model is
on the premises at any one time.
      NUDITY, NUDE, or STATE OF NUDITY. Means the showing of the human male or
female genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft, or cleavage with less
than a fully opaque covering; or the showing of the female breasts with less
than a fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple.
      REGULARLY FEATURES or REGULARLY SHOWN. Means a consistent or substantial
course of conduct, such that the films or performances exhibited constitute a
substantial portion of the films or performances offered as a part of the
ongoing business of the adult entertainment establishment.
      SEMINUDE or STATE OF SEMINUDITY. Means a state of dress in which opaque
clothing covers not more than the genitals, pubic region, and nipple of the
female breast, as well as portions of the body covered by supporting straps or
devices.
      SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT.
         (a)   Means a business or commercial establishment that, as one of its
principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration a place where
either of the following occur:
            1.   Two or more persons may congregate, associate, or consort for
the purpose of engaging in specified sexual activities.
            2.   Two or more persons appear nude or seminude for the purpose of
displaying their nude or seminude bodies for their receipt of consideration or
compensation in any type or form.
         (b)   An establishment where a medical practitioner, psychologist,
psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the state engages in
medically approved and recognized therapy, including but not limited to massage
therapy, as regulated pursuant to R.C. § 4731.15, is not a “sexual encounter
establishment”.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Means the cleft of the buttocks, anus, male
or female genitals, or the female breast.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, or actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation, or sodomy;
         (b)   Excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of
the activities described in division (a) of this definition.
   (B)   No person knowingly shall allow an individual, including but not
limited to a patron, customer, or employee, who is under 18 years of age on the
premises of an adult entertainment establishment.
   (C)   No individual who is under 18 years of age knowingly shall show or
give false information concerning the individual’s name or age, or other false
identification, for the purpose of gaining entrance to an adult entertainment
establishment.
   (D)   A person shall not be found guilty of a violation of division (B) of
this section if the person raises as an affirmative defense and if the jury or,
in a nonjury trial, the court finds the person has established by a
preponderance of the evidence, all of the following:
      (1)   The individual gaining entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment exhibited to an operator, employee, agent, or independent
contractor of the adult entertainment establishment a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card issued under R.C. §§ 4507.50 and
4507.52 showing that the individual was then at least 18 years of age.
      (2)   The operator, employee, agent, or independent contractor made a
bona fide effort to ascertain the true age of the individual gaining entrance
to the adult entertainment establishment by checking the identification
presented, at the time of entrance, to ascertain that the description on the
identification compared with the appearance of the individual and that the
identification had not been altered in any way.
      (3)   The operator, employee, agent, or independent contractor had reason
to believe that the individual gaining entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment was at least 18 years of age.
   (E)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense described in
division (D) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or the
deputy registrar who issued a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an
identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50 and 4507.52 shall be permitted to
submit certified copies of the records, in the Registrar’s or deputy
registrar’s possession, of the issuance of the license or identification card
in question, in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles in the action.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
permitting a juvenile on the premises of an adult entertainment establishment,
a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day a person violates this division
constitutes a separate offense.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of use by a
juvenile of false information to enter an adult entertainment establishment, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if committed by
an adult.
(R.C. § 2907.39)
§ 133.18 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; ILLEGAL OPERATION AND ACTIVITY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. Means a commercial establishment
that has as a significant or substantial portion of its stock in trade or
inventory in, derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues
from, devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior business or
advertising to, or maintains a substantial section of its sales or display
space for the sale or rental, for any form of consideration, of books,
magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or photographs, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, slides, or other visual
representations, that are characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition
or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT CABARET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. Means a commercial establishment where
films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or similar photographic
reproductions that are characterized by their emphasis upon the display of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas are regularly shown
to more than five individuals for any form of consideration.
      CHARACTERIZED BY. Describing the essential character or quality of an
item.
      EMPLOYEE. Means any individual who performs any service on the premises
of a sexually oriented business on a full-time, part-time, or contract basis,
regardless of whether the individual is denominated an employee, independent
contractor, agent, or otherwise, but does not include an individual exclusively
on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or for the delivery
of goods to the premises.
      NUDE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      NUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      OPERATOR. Means any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented
business who causes the business to function or who puts or keeps in operation
the business or who is authorized to manage the business or exercise overall
operational control of the business premises.
      PATRON. Means any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented
business except for any of the following:
         (a)   An operator or an employee of the sexually oriented business;
         (b)   An individual who is on the premises exclusively for repair or
maintenance of the premises or for the delivery of goods to the premises;
         (c)   A public employee or a volunteer firefighter emergency medical
services worker acting within the scope of the public employee’s or volunteer’s
duties as a public employee or volunteer.
      PREMISES. Means the real property on which the sexually oriented business
is located and all appurtenances to the real property, including, but not
limited, to the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways, and
parking lots or parking garages adjacent to the real property under the
ownership, control, or supervision of the owner or operator of the sexually
oriented business.
      REGULARLY. Means consistently or repeatedly.
      SEMINUDE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      SEXUAL DEVICE. Means any three-dimensional object designed and marketed
for stimulation of the male or female human genitals or anus or female breasts
or for sadomasochistic use or abuse of oneself or others, including but not
limited to dildos, vibrators, penis pumps, and physical representations of the
human genital organs, but not including devices primarily intended for
protection against sexually transmitted diseases or for preventing pregnancy.
      SEXUAL DEVICE SHOP. Means a commercial establishment that regularly
features sexual devices, but not including any pharmacy, drug store, medical
clinic, or establishment primarily dedicated to providing medical or healthcare
products or services, and not including any commercial establishment that does
not restrict access to its premises by reason of age.
      SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. Means a business or commercial enterprise that,
as one of its principal business purposes, purports to offer for any form of
consideration physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
individuals of the opposite sex when one or more of the individuals is nude or
seminude.
      SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Means an adult bookstore, adult video store,
adult cabaret, adult motion picture theater, sexual device shop, or sexual
encounter center, but does not include a business solely by reason of its
showing, selling, or renting materials that may depict sex.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Includes human genitals, pubic region, and
buttocks and the human female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Means sexual intercourse, oral copulation,
masturbation, or sodomy, or excretory functions as a part of or in connection
with any of these activities.
      STATE OF NUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      STATE OF SEMINUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
   (B)   No sexually oriented business shall be or remain open for business
between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. on any day, except that a sexually
oriented business that holds a liquor permit pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4303 may
remain open until the hour specified in that permit if it does not conduct,
offer, or allow sexually oriented entertainment activity in which the
performers appear nude.
   (C)   (1)   No patron who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family
shall knowingly touch any employee while that employee is nude or seminude or
touch the clothing of any employee while that employee is nude or seminude.
      (2)   No employee who regularly appears nude or seminude on the premises
of a sexually oriented business, while on the premises of that sexually
oriented business and while nude or seminude, shall knowingly touch a patron
who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who
is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or the clothing of a patron
who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who
is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or allow a patron who is not
a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who is not a
member of the employee’s immediate family to touch the employee or the clothing
of the employee.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegally
operating a sexually oriented business, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal
sexually oriented activity in a sexually oriented business. If the offender
touches a specified anatomical area of the patron or employee, or the clothing
covering a specified anatomical area, a violation of division (C) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender does not touch a
specified anatomical area of the patron or employee, or the clothing covering a
specified anatomical area, a violation of division (C) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2907.40)
Statutory reference:
   State indemnification for certain municipal liability stemming from local
adult business     regulations, see R.C. § 715.55
§ 133.19 UNLAWFUL ADVERTISING OF MASSAGE.
   (A)   No person, by means of a statement, solicitation, or offer in a print
or electronic publication, sign, placard, storefront display, or other medium,
shall advertise massage, relaxation massage, any other massage technique or
method, or any related service, with the suggestion or promise of sexual
activity.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful advertising of
massage, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (C)   Nothing in this section prevents the municipality from enacting any
regulation of the advertising of massage further than and in addition to the
provisions of divisions (A) and (B) of this section.
   (D)   As used in this section, SEXUAL ACTIVITY has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2907.01.
(R.C. § 2927.17)
§ 133.20 NONCONSENSUAL DISSEMINATION OF PRIVATE SEXUAL IMAGES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CABLE SERVICE PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.01.
      DIRECT-TO-HOME SATELLITE SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. §
303, as amended.
      DISSEMINATE. Means to post, distribute, or publish on a computer device,
computer network, web site, or other electronic device or medium of
communication.
      IMAGE. Means a photograph, film, videotape, digital recording, or other
depiction or portrayal of a person.
      INTERACTIVE COMPUTER SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in the
“Telecommunications Act of 1996”, 47 U.S.C. § 230, as amended.
      INTERNET PROVIDER. Means a provider of internet service, including all of
the following:
         (a)   Broadband service, however defined or classified by the Federal
Communications Commission;
         (b)   Information service or telecommunications service, both as
defined in the “Telecommunications Act of 1996”, 47 U.S.C. § 153, as amended;
         (c)   Internet protocol-enabled services, as defined in R.C. §
4927.01.
      MOBILE SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153, as amended.
      SEXUAL ACT. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Sexual activity;
         (b)   Masturbation;
         (c)   An act involving a bodily substance that is performed for the
purpose of sexual arousal or gratification;
         (d)   Sado-masochistic abuse.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153,
as amended.
      VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly disseminate an image of another person if
all of the following apply:
      (1)   The person in the image is 18 years of age or older.
      (2)   The person in the image can be identified from the image itself or
from information displayed in connection with the image and the offender
supplied the identifying information.
      (3)   The person in the image is in a state of nudity or is engaged in a
sexual act.
      (4)   The image is disseminated without consent from the person in the
image.
      (5)   The image is disseminated with intent to harm the person in the
image.
   (C)   This section does not prohibit the dissemination of an image if any of
the following apply:
      (1)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of a criminal
investigation that is otherwise lawful.
      (2)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of, or in connection
with, the reporting of unlawful conduct.
      (3)   The image is part of a news report or commentary or an artistic or
expressive work, such as a performance, work of art, literary work, theatrical
work, musical work, motion picture, film, or audiovisual work.
      (4)   The image is disseminated by a law enforcement officer, or a
corrections officer or guard in a detention facility, acting within the scope
of the person’s official duties.
      (5)   The image is disseminated for another lawful public purpose.
      (6)   The person in the image is knowingly and willingly in a state of
nudity or engaged in a sexual act and is knowingly and willingly in a location
in which the person does not have a reasonable expectation of privacy.
      (7)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of medical treatment or
examination.
   (D)   The following entities are not liable for a violation of this section
solely as a result of an image or other information provided by another person:
      (1)   A provider of interactive computer service;
      (2)   A mobile service;
      (3)   A telecommunications carrier;
      (4)   An internet provider;
      (5)   A cable service provider;
      (6)   A direct-to-home satellite service;
      (7)   A video service provider.
   (E)   Any conduct that is a violation of this section and any other section
of this Code or the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, the
other section, or both sections.
   (F)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (F)(1)(b), (F)(1)
(c), or (F)(1)(d) of this section, whoever violates this section is guilty of
nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images, a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of this section or any substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images is
a misdemeanor of the second degree.
         (c)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or any substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, nonconsensual dissemination of
private sexual images is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (d)   If the offender is under 18 years of age and the person in the
image is not more than five years older than the offender, the offender shall
not be prosecuted under this section.
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty or disposition authorized or
required by law, the court may order any person who is convicted of a violation
of this section or who is adjudicated delinquent by reason of a violation of
this section to criminally forfeit all of the following property to the state
under R.C. Chapter 2981:
         (a)   Any profits or proceeds and any property the person has acquired
or maintained in violation of this section that the sentencing court determines
to have been acquired or maintained as a result of the violation;
         (b)   Any interest in, securities of, claim against, or property or
contractual right of any kind affording a source of influence over any
enterprise that the person has established, operated, controlled, or conducted
in violation of this section that the sentencing court determines to have been
acquired or maintained as a result of the violation.
   (G)   A victim of a violation of this section may commence a civil cause of
action against the offender, as described in R.C. § 2307.66.
(R.C. § 2917.211)
§ 133.99 SENTENCING FOR SEXUALLY ORIENTED OFFENSES; SEXUAL PREDATORS;
REGISTRATION.
   (A)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, and the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim
offender relative to the offense or the offense is any offense listed in R.C. §
2901.07(D)(1) to (D)(3), the judge shall include in the offender’s sentence a
statement that the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim offender,
shall comply with the requirements of R.C. § 2950.03, and shall require the
offender to submit to a DNA specimen collection procedure pursuant to R.C. §
2901.07.
   (B)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or a
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, the judge shall include in the sentence a summary of the
offender’s duties imposed under R.C. §§ 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05, and
2950.06, and the duration of the duties. The judge shall inform the offender,
at the time of sentencing, of those duties and of their duration. If required
under R.C. § 2950.03(A)(2), the judge shall perform the duties specified in
that section or, if required under R.C. § 2950.03(A)(6), the judge shall
perform the duties specified in that division.
(R.C. § 2929.23)
Cross-reference:
   Sentencing generally, see
Chapter 130
CHAPTER 134: GAMBLING OFFENSES
Section
   
134.01   Definitions
   
134.02   Prohibitions against gambling; exception
   
134.03   Operating a gambling house
   
134.04   Public gaming
   
134.05   Cheating
   
134.06   Regulations concerning operation of licensed bingo game
   
134.07   Records to be kept
   
134.08   Requirements for bingo game operators
   
134.09   Bingo games for amusement only
   
134.10   Prohibitions where instant bingo game is conducted
   
134.11   Raffle drawings
   
134.12   Instant bingo other than at bingo sessions
   
134.13   Restrictions on owner or lessor of location at instant bingo
   
134.14   Skill-based amusement machines; prohibited conduct
   
134.15   Electronic instant bingo; prohibited conduct
Statutory reference:
   Conducting an illegal bingo game, felony, see R.C. § 2915.07
   Licensing bingo games by Attorney General, see R.C. § 2915.08
   Licensing distributors of bingo supplies by Attorney General, see R.C. §
2915.081
   Licensing manufacturers of bingo supplies by Attorney General, see R.C. §
2915.082
§ 134.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BET. The hazarding of anything of value upon the result of an event,
undertaking, or contingency, but does not include a bona fide business risk.
   BINGO. Either of the following:
      (1)   A game with all of the following characteristics:
         (a)   The participants use bingo cards or sheets, including paper
formats and electronic representation or image formats, that are divided into
25 spaces arranged in five horizontal and five vertical rows of spaces, with
each space, except the central space, being designated by a combination of a
letter and a number and with the central space being designated as a free
space;
         (b)   The participants cover the spaces on the bingo cards or sheets
that correspond to combinations of letters and numbers that are announced by a
bingo game operator;
         (c)   A bingo game operator announces combinations of letters and
numbers that appear on objects that a bingo game operator selects by chance,
either manually or mechanically, from a receptacle that contains 75 objects at
the beginning of each game, each object marked by a different combination of a
letter and a number that corresponds to one of the 75 possible combinations of
a letter and a number that can appear on the bingo cards or sheets;
         (d)   The winner of the bingo game includes any participant who
properly announces during the interval between the announcements of letters and
numbers, as described in division (1)(c) of this definition, that a
predetermined and pre-announced pattern of spaces has been covered on a bingo
card or sheet being used by the participant.
      (2)   Instant bingo, electronic instant bingo, and raffles.
   BINGO GAME OPERATOR. Any person, except security personnel, who performs
work or labor at the site of bingo including but not limited to collecting
money from participants, handing out bingo cards or sheets or objects to cover
spaces on bingo cards or sheets, selecting from a receptacle the objects that
contain the combination of letters and numbers that appear on bingo cards or
sheets, calling out the combinations of letters and numbers, distributing
prizes, selling or redeeming instant bingo tickets or cards, selling or
redeeming electronic instant bingo tickets, credits, or vouchers, accessing an
electronic instant bingo system other than as a participant, supervising the
operation of a punch board, selling raffle tickets, selecting raffle tickets
from a receptacle and announcing the winning numbers in a raffle, and
preparing, selling, and serving food or beverages. "Bingo game operator" does
not include a person who is installing, maintaining, updating, or repairing an
electronic instant bingo system.
   BINGO SESSION. A period that includes both of the following:
      (1)   Not to exceed five continuous hours for the conduct of one or more
games described in division (1) of the definition of "bingo" in this section,
instant bingo, and electronic instant bingo;
      (2)   A period for the conduct of instant bingo and electronic instant
bingo for not more than two hours before and not more than two hours after the
period described in division (1) of this definition.
   BINGO SUPPLIES. Bingo cards or sheets; instant bingo tickets or cards;
electronic bingo aids; raffle tickets; punch boards; seal cards; instant bingo
ticket dispensers; electronic instant bingo systems; and devices for selecting
or displaying the combination of bingo letters and numbers or raffle tickets.
Items that are "bingo supplies" are not gambling devices if sold or otherwise
provided, and used, in accordance with this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915. For
purposes of this chapter, "bingo supplies" are not to be considered equipment
used to conduct a bingo game.
   BOOKMAKING. The business of receiving or paying off bets.
   CHAMBER OF COMMERCE. Any organization of individuals, professionals, and
businesses that has the purpose to advance the commercial, financial,
industrial, and civic interests of the community and that is, and has received
from the Internal Revenue Service a determination letter that currently is in
effect stating that the organization is, exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a), being 26 U.S.C. § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(6).
   CHARITABLE BINGO GAME. Any bingo game described in divisions (1) or (2) of
the definition of “bingo” in this section that is conducted by a charitable
organization that has obtained a license pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08 and the
proceeds of which are used for a charitable purpose.
   CHARITABLE INSTANT BINGO ORGANIZATION. An organization that is exempt from
federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3) and
is a charitable organization as defined in this section. The term does not
include a charitable organization that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3) and that is created by a
veteran’s organization, a fraternal organization, or a sporting organization in
regards to bingo conducted or assisted by a veteran’s organization, a fraternal
organization, or a sporting organization pursuant to R.C. § 2915.13, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, “charitable
organization” means either of the following:
         (a)   An organization that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
         (b)   A volunteer rescue service organization, volunteer firefighter’s
organization, veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §§ 501(c)
(4), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10) or 501(c)(19).
      (2)   To qualify as a charitable organization, an organization shall have
been in continuous existence as such in this state for a period of two years
immediately preceding either the making of an application for a bingo license
under R.C. § 2915.08 or the conducting of any game of chance as provided in
R.C. § 2915.02(D), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   CHARITABLE PURPOSE. Means that the net profit of bingo, other than instant
bingo or electronic instant bingo, is used by, or is given, donated, or
otherwise transferred to, any of the following:
      (1)   Any organization that is described in IRC §§ 509(a)(1), 509(a)(2),
or 509(a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an organization that is tax
exempt under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
      (2)   A veteran’s organization that is a post, chapter, or organization
of veterans, or an auxiliary unit or society of, or a trust or foundation for,
any such post, chapter, or organization organized in the United States or any
of its possessions, at least 75% of the members of which are veterans and
substantially all of the other members of which are individuals who are
spouses, widows, or widowers of veterans, or such individuals, provided that no
part of the net earnings of such post, chapter, or organization inures to the
benefit of any private shareholder or individual, and further provided that the
net profit is used by the post, chapter, or organization for the charitable
purposes set forth in R.C. § 5739.02(B)(12), is used for awarding scholarships
to or for attendance at an institution mentioned in that division of the Ohio
Revised Code, is donated to a governmental agency, or is used for nonprofit
youth activities, the purchase of United States or Ohio flags that are donated
to schools, youth groups, or other bona fide nonprofit organizations, promotion
of patriotism, or disaster relief;
      (3)   A fraternal organization that has been in continuous existence in
this state for 15 years and that uses the net profit exclusively for religious,
charitable, scientific, literary, or educational purposes, or for the
prevention of cruelty to children or animals, if contributions for such use
would qualify as a deductible charitable contribution under IRC § 170;
      (4)   A volunteer firefighter’s organization that uses the net profit for
the purposes set forth in the definition of “volunteer firefighter’s
organization” in this section.
   COMMUNITY ACTION AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 122.66.
   CONDUCT. To back, promote, organize, manage, carry on, sponsor, or prepare
for the operation of bingo or a game of chance, a scheme of chance, or a
sweepstakes.
   DEAL. A single game of instant bingo tickets, or a single game of electronic
instant bingo tickets, all with the same serial number.
   DISTRIBUTOR. Any person who purchases or obtains bingo supplies and who does
either of the following:
      (1)   Sells, offers for sale, or otherwise provides or offers to provide
the bingo supplies to another person for use in this state;
      (2)   Modifies, converts, adds to, or removes parts from the bingo
supplies to further their promotion or sale for use in this state.
   ELECTRONIC BINGO AID.
      (1)   An electronic device used by a participant to monitor bingo cards
or sheets purchased at the time and place of a bingo session and that does all
of the following:
         (a)   It provides a means for a participant to input numbers and
letters announced by a bingo caller.
         (b)   It compares the numbers and letters entered by the participant
to the bingo faces previously stored in the memory of the device.
         (c)   It identifies a winning bingo pattern.
      (2)   The term does not include any device into which a coin, currency,
token, or an equivalent is inserted to activate play.
   ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO.
      (1)   A form of bingo that consists of an electronic or digital
representation of instant bingo in which a participant wins a prize if the
participant's electronic instant bingo ticket contains a combination of numbers
or symbols that was designated in advance as a winning combination, and to
which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Each deal has a predetermined, finite number of winning and
losing tickets and a predetermined prize amount and deal structure, provided
that there may be multiple winning combinations in each deal and multiple
winning tickets.
         (b)   Each electronic instant bingo ticket within a deal has a unique
serial number that is not regenerated.
         (c)   Each electronic instant bingo ticket within a deal is sold for
the same price.
         (d)   After a participant purchases an electronic instant bingo
ticket, the combination of numbers or symbols on the ticket is revealed to the
participant.
         (e)   The reveal of numbers or symbols on the ticket may incorporate
an entertainment or bonus theme, provided that the reveal does not include
spinning reels that resemble a slot machine.
         (f)   The reveal theme, if any, does not require additional
consideration or award any prize other than any predetermined prize associated
with the electronic instant bingo ticket.
      (2)   The term shall not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any game, entertainment, or bonus theme that replicates or
simulates any of the following:
            1.   The gambling games of keno, blackjack, roulette, poker, craps,
other casino-style table games;
            2.   Horse racing;
            3.   Gambling games offered in this state on slot machines or video
lottery terminals. As used in this division, "video lottery terminal" has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 3770.21.
         (b)   Any device operated by dropping one or more coins or tokens into
a slot and pulling a handle or pushing a button or touchpoint on a touchscreen
to activate one to three or more rotating reels marked into horizontal segments
by varying symbols, where the predetermined prize amount depends on how and how
many of the symbols line up when the rotating reels come to a rest;
         (c)   Any device that includes a coin or token slot, tray, or hopper
and the ability to dispense coins, cash, tokens, or anything of value other
than a credit ticket voucher.
   ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO SYSTEM. Means both of the following:
      (1)   A mechanical, electronic, digital, or video device and associated
software to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   It is used by not more than one player at a time to play
electronic instant bingo on a single screen that is physically connected to the
device;
         (b)   It is located on the premises of the principal place of business
of a veteran's or fraternal organization that holds a type II or type III bingo
license to conduct electronic instant bingo at that location issued under R.C.
§ 2915.08.
      (2)   Any associated equipment or software used to manage, monitor, or
document any aspect of electronic instant bingo.
   EXPENSES. The reasonable amount of gross profit actually expended for all of
the following:
      (1)   The purchase or lease of bingo supplies;
      (2)   The annual license fee required under R.C. § 2915.08;
      (3)   Bank fees and service charges for a bingo session or game account
described in R.C. § 2915.10;
      (4)   Audits and accounting services;
      (5)   Safes;
      (6)   Cash registers;
      (7)   Hiring security personnel;
      (8)   Advertising bingo;
      (9)   Renting premises in which to conduct a bingo session;
      (10)   Tables and chairs;
      (11)   Expenses for maintaining and operating a charitable organization’s
facilities, including but not limited to a post home, club house, lounge,
tavern, or canteen and any grounds attached to the post home, club house,
lounge, tavern, or canteen;
      (12)   Payment of real property taxes and assessments that are levied on
a premises on which bingo is conducted;
      (13)   Any other product or service directly related to the conduct of
bingo that is authorized in rules adopted by the Attorney General under R.C. §
2915.08(F)(1).
   FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION. Any society, order, state headquarters, or
association within this state, except a college or high school fraternity, that
is not organized for profit, that is a branch, lodge, or chapter of a national
or state organization, that exists exclusively for the common business or
sodality of its members.
   GAMBLING DEVICE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A book, totalizer, or other equipment used for recording bets;
      (2)   A ticket, token, or other device representing a chance, share, or
interest in a scheme of chance or evidencing a bet;
      (3)   A deck of cards, dice, gaming table, roulette wheel, slot machine,
or other apparatus designed for use in connection with a game of chance;
      (4)   Any equipment, device, apparatus, or paraphernalia specially
designed for gambling purposes;
      (5)   Bingo supplies sold or otherwise provided, or used, in violation of
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   GAMBLING OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. Chapter 2915;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 or a violation of R.C. § 2915.06
as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or of the United States, of which gambling is an
element;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   GAME FLARE. The board or placard, or electronic representation of a board or
placard, that accompanies each deal of instant bingo or electronic instant
bingo tickets and that includes the following information for the game
      (1)   The name of the game;
      (2)   The manufacturer’s name or distinctive logo;
      (3)   The form number;
      (4)   The ticket count;
      (5)   The prize structure, including the number of winning tickets by
denomination and the respective winning symbol or number combinations for the
winning tickets;
      (6)   The cost per play;
      (7)   The serial number of the game.
   GAME OF CHANCE. Poker, craps, roulette, or other game in which a player
gives anything of value in the hope of gain, the outcome of which is determined
largely by chance, but does not include bingo.
   GAME OF CHANCE CONDUCTED FOR PROFIT. Any game of chance designed to produce
income for the person who conducts or operates the game of chance, but does not
include bingo.
   GROSS ANNUAL REVENUES. The annual gross receipts derived from the conduct of
bingo described in division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in this section
plus the annual net profit derived from the conduct of bingo described in
division (2) of the definition of “bingo” in this section.
   GROSS PROFIT. Gross receipts minus the amount actually expended for the
payment of prize awards.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. All money or assets, including admission fees, that a person
receives from bingo without the deduction of any amounts for prizes paid out or
for the expenses of conducting bingo. The term does not include any money
directly taken in from the sale of food or beverages by a charitable
organization conducting bingo, or by a bona fide auxiliary unit or society of a
charitable organization conducting bingo, provided all of the following apply:
      (1)   The auxiliary unit or society has been in existence as a bona fide
auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization for at least two years
prior to conducting bingo.
      (2)   The person who purchases the food or beverage receives nothing of
value except the food or beverage and items customarily received with the
purchase of that food or beverage.
      (3)   The food and beverages are sold at customary and reasonable prices.
   HISTORIC RAILROAD. All or a portion of the tracks and right-of-way of a
railroad that was owned and operated by a for profit common carrier in this
state at any time prior to January 1, 1950.
   INSTANT BINGO. A form of bingo that shall use folded or banded tickets or
paper cards with perforated break-open tabs, a face of which is covered or
otherwise hidden from view to conceal a number, letter, or symbol, or set of
numbers, letters, or symbols, some of which have been designated in advance as
prize winners, and may also include games in which some winners are determined
by the random selection of one or more bingo numbers by the use of a seal card
or bingo blower. "Instant bingo" also includes a punch board game. In all
"instant bingo" the prize amount and structure shall be predetermined. The term
does not include electronic instant bingo or any device that is activated by
the insertion of a coin, currency, token, or an equivalent, and that contains
as one of its components a video display monitor that is capable of displaying
numbers, letters, symbols, or characters in winning or losing combinations.
   INSTANT BINGO TICKET DISPENSER. A mechanical device that dispenses an
instant bingo ticket or card as the sole item of value dispensed and that has
the following characteristics:
      (1)   It is activated upon the insertion of United States currency.
      (2)   It performs no gaming functions.
      (3)   It does not contain a video display monitor or generate noise.
      (4)   It is not capable of displaying any numbers, letters, symbols, or
characters in winning or losing combinations.
      (5)   It does not simulate or display rolling or spinning reels.
      (6)   It is incapable of determining whether a dispensed bingo ticket or
card is a winning or non- winning ticket or card and requires a winning ticket
or card to be paid by a bingo game operator.
      (7)   It may provide accounting and security features to aid in
accounting for the instant bingo tickets or cards it dispenses.
      (8)   It is not part of an electronic network and is not interactive.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE (IRC). The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 100 Stat.
2085, 26 U.S.C. §§ 1 et seq., as now or hereafter amended.
   MANUFACTURER. Any person who assembles completed bingo supplies from raw
materials, other items, or subparts or who modifies, converts, adds to, or
removes parts from bingo supplies to further their promotion or sale.
   MERCHANDISE PRIZE. Any item of value, but shall not include any of the
following:
      (1)   Cash, gift cards, or any equivalent thereof;
      (2)   Plays on games of chance, state lottery tickets, or bingo;
      (3)   Firearms, tobacco, or alcoholic beverages; or
      (4)   A redeemable voucher that is redeemable for any of the items listed
in division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   NET PROFIT. Gross profit minus expenses.
   NET PROFIT FROM THE PROCEEDS OF THE SALE OF INSTANT BINGO OR ELECTRONIC
INSTANT BINGO. Gross profit minus the ordinary, necessary, and reasonable
expense expended for the purchase of bingo supplies for the purpose of
conducting instant bingo or electronic instant bingo, and, in the case of
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conducted by a veteran's, fraternal,
or sporting organization, minus the payment by that organization of real
property taxes and assessments levied on a premises on which instant bingo or
electronic instant bingo is conducted.
   PARTICIPANT. Any person who plays bingo.
   PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1.59 and includes any firm or any
other legal entity, however organized.
   POOL NOT CONDUCTED FOR PROFIT. A scheme in which a participant gives a
valuable consideration for a chance to win a prize and the total amount of
consideration wagered is distributed to a participant or participants.
   PUNCH BOARD. A form of instant bingo that uses a board containing a number
of holes or receptacles of uniform size in which are placed, mechanically and
randomly, serially numbered slips of paper that may be punched or drawn from
the hole or receptacle. A player may punch or draw the numbered slips of paper
from the holes or receptacles and obtain the prize established for the game if
the number drawn corresponds to a winning number or, if the punch board
includes the use of a seal card, a potential winning number.
   RAFFLE. A form of bingo in which the one or more prizes are won by one or
more persons who have purchased a raffle ticket. The one or more winners of the
raffle are determined by drawing a ticket stub or other detachable section from
a receptacle containing ticket stubs or detachable sections corresponding to
all tickets sold for the raffle. The term does not include the drawing of a
ticket stub or other detachable section of a ticket purchased to attend a
professional sporting event if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The ticket stub or other detachable section is used to select the
winner of a free prize given away at the professional sporting event; and
      (2)   The cost of the ticket is the same as the cost of a ticket to the
professional sporting event on days when no free prize is given away.
   REDEEMABLE VOUCHER. Any ticket, token, coupon, receipt, or other noncash
representation of value.
   RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION. Any church, body of communicants, or group that is
not organized or operated for profit and that gathers in common membership for
regular worship and religious observances.
   REVOKE. To void permanently all rights and privileges of the holder of a
license issued under R.C. § 2915.08, 2915.081, or 2915.082 or a charitable
gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   SCHEME OF CHANCE.
      (1)   A slot machine unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3772, lottery
unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3770, numbers game, pool conducted for
profit, or other scheme in which a participant gives a valuable consideration
for a chance to win a prize, but does not include bingo, a skill-based
amusement machine, or a pool not conducted for profit. “Scheme of chance”
includes the use of an electronic device to reveal the results of a game entry
if valuable consideration is paid, directly or indirectly, for a chance to win
a prize. Valuable consideration is deemed to be paid for a chance to win a
prize in the following instances:
         (a)   Less than 50% of the goods or services sold by a scheme of
chance operator in exchange for game entries are used or redeemed by
participants at any one location;
         (b)   Less than 50% of participants who purchase goods or services at
any one location do not accept, use, or redeem the goods or services sold or
purportedly sold;
         (c)   More than 50% of prizes at any one location are revealed to
participants through an electronic device simulating a game of chance or a
“casino game” as defined in R.C. § 3772.01;
         (d)   The good or service sold by a scheme of chance operator in
exchange for a game entry cannot be used or redeemed in the manner advertised;
         (e)   A participant pays more than fair market value for goods or
services offered by a scheme of chance operator in order to receive one or more
game entries;
         (f)   A participant may use the electronic device to purchase
additional game entries;
         (g)   A participant may purchase additional game entries by using
points or credits won as prizes while using the electronic device;
         (h)   A scheme of chance operator pays out in prize money more than
20% of the gross revenue received at one location; or
         (i)   A participant makes a purchase or exchange in order to obtain
any good or service that may be used to facilitate play on the electronic
device.
      (2)   As used in this division, “electronic device” means a mechanical,
video, digital, or electronic machine or device that is capable of displaying
information on a screen or other mechanism and that is owned, leased, or
otherwise possessed by any person conducting a scheme of chance, or by that
person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, or contractors. "Electronic
device" does not include an electronic instant bingo system.
   SEAL CARD. A form of instant bingo that uses instant bingo tickets in
conjunction with a board or placard that contains one or more seals that, when
removed or opened, reveal predesignated winning numbers, letters, or symbols.
   SECURITY PERSONNEL. Includes any person who either is a Sheriff, deputy
sheriff, Marshal, deputy marshal, township constable, or member of an organized
police department of a municipal corporation or has successfully completed a
peace officer’s training course pursuant to R.C. §§ 109.71 through 109.79 and
who is hired to provide security for the premises on which bingo is conducted.
   SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINE.
      (1)   (a)   A mechanical, video, digital, or electronic device that
rewards the player or players, if at all, only with merchandise prizes or with
redeemable vouchers redeemable only for merchandise prizes, provided that with
respect to rewards for playing the game all of the following apply:
            1.   The wholesale value of a merchandise prize awarded as a result
of the single play of a machine does not exceed $10;
            2.   Redeemable vouchers awarded for any single play of a machine
are not redeemable for a merchandise prize with a wholesale value of more than
$10;
            3.   Redeemable vouchers are not redeemable for a merchandise prize
that has a wholesale value of more than $10 times the fewest number of single
plays necessary to accrue the redeemable vouchers required to obtain that
prize; and
            4.   Any redeemable vouchers or merchandise prizes are distributed
at the site of the skill-based amusement machine at the time of play.
         (b)   A card for the purchase of gasoline is a redeemable voucher for
purposes of division (1) of this definition even if the skill-based amusement
machine for the play of which the card is awarded is located at a place where
gasoline may not be legally distributed to the public or the card is not
redeemable at the location of, or at the time of playing, the skill-based
amusement machine.
      (2)   A device shall not be considered a skill-based amusement machine
and shall be considered a slot machine if it pays cash or one or more of the
following apply:
         (a)   The ability of a player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the number or ratio of prior wins to prior losses of players playing the game;
         (b)   Any reward of redeemable vouchers is not based solely on the
player achieving the object of the game or the player’s score;
         (c)   The outcome of the game, or the value of the redeemable voucher
or merchandise prize awarded for winning the game, can be controlled by a
source other than any player playing the game;
         (d)   The success of any player is or may be determined by a chance
event that cannot be altered by player actions;
         (e)   The ability of any player to succeed at the game is determined
by game features not visible or known to the player;
         (f)   The ability of the player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the exercise of a skill that no reasonable player could exercise.
      (3)   All of the following apply to any machine that is operated as
described in division (1) of this definition:
         (a)   As used in this definition of “skill-based amusement machine”,
GAME and PLAY mean one event from the initial activation of the machine until
the results of play are determined without payment of additional consideration.
An individual utilizing a machine that involves a single game, play, contest,
competition, or tournament may be awarded redeemable vouchers or merchandise
prizes based on the results of play.
         (b)   Advance play for a single game, play, contest, competition, or
tournament participation may be purchased. The cost of the contest,
competition, or tournament participation may be greater than a single non-
contest, competition, or tournament play.
         (c)   To the extent that the machine is used in a contest,
competition, or tournament, that contest, competition, or tournament has a
defined starting and ending date and is open to participants in competition for
scoring and ranking results toward the awarding of redeemable vouchers or
merchandise prizes that are stated prior to the start of the contest,
competition, or tournament.
      (4)   For purposes of division (1) of this definition, the mere presence
of a device, such as a pin- setting, ball-releasing, or scoring mechanism, that
does not contribute to or affect the outcome of the play of the game does not
make the device a skill-based amusement machine.
   SLOT MACHINE.
      (1)   Either of the following:
         (a)   Any mechanical, electronic, video, or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player who gives the thing of value in the hope of gain;
         (b)   Any mechanical, electronic, video, or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player to conduct bingo or a scheme or game of chance.
      (2)   The term does not include a skill-based amusement machine, an
instant bingo ticket dispenser, or an electronic instant bingo system.
   SPORTING ORGANIZATION. A hunting, fishing, or trapping organization, other
than a college or high school fraternity or sorority, that is not organized for
profit, that is affiliated with a state or national sporting organization,
including but not limited to the League of Ohio Sportsmen, and that has been in
continuous existence in this state for a period of three years.
   SUSPEND. To interrupt temporarily all rights and privileges of the holder of
a license issued under R.C. § 2915.08, 2915.081, or 2915.082 or a charitable
gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   SWEEPSTAKES. Any game, contest, advertising scheme or plan, or other
promotion where consideration is not required for a person to enter to win or
become eligible to receive any prize, the determination of which is based upon
chance. “Sweepstakes” does not include bingo as authorized under R.C. Chapter
2915, pari-mutuel wagering as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3769, lotteries
conducted by the State Lottery Commission as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3770,
and casino gaming as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3772.
   SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE.
      (1)   A mechanical, video, digital, or electronic machine or device that
is owned, leased, or otherwise possessed by any person conducting a
sweepstakes, or by that person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, or
contractors, that is intended to be used by a sweepstakes participant, and that
is capable of displaying information on a screen or other mechanism. A device
is a sweepstakes terminal device if any of the following apply:
         (a)   The device uses a simulated game terminal as a representation of
the prizes associated with the results of the sweepstakes entries.
         (b)   The device utilizes software such that the simulated game
influences or determines the winning of or value of the prize.
         (c)   The device selects prizes from a predetermined finite pool of
entries.
         (d)   The device utilizes a mechanism that reveals the content of a
predetermined sweepstakes entry.
         (e)   The device predetermines the prize results and stores those
results for delivery at the time the sweepstakes entry results are revealed.
         (f)   The device utilizes software to create a game result.
         (g)   The device reveals the prize incrementally, even though the
device does not influence the awarding of the prize or the value of any prize
awarded.
         (h)   The device determines and associates the prize with an entry or
entries at the time the sweepstakes is entered.
      (2)   As used in this definition and in §
134.02:
         ENTER. The act by which a person becomes eligible to receive any prize
offered in a sweepstakes.
         ENTRY. One event from the initial activation of the sweepstakes
terminal device until all the sweepstakes prize results from that activation
are revealed.
         PRIZE. Any gift, award, gratuity, good, service, credit, reward, or
any other thing of value that may be transferred to a person, whether
possession of the prize is actually transferred, or placed on an account or
other record as evidence of the intent to transfer the prize.
         SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE FACILITY. Any location in this state where
a sweepstakes terminal device is provided to a sweepstakes participant, except
as provided in §
134.02(G) and R.C. § 2915.02(G).
   VETERAN’S ORGANIZATION. Any individual post or state headquarters of a
national veteran’s association or an auxiliary unit of any individual post of a
national veteran’s association, which post, state headquarters, or auxiliary
unit is incorporated as a nonprofit corporation and either has received a
letter from the state headquarters of the national veteran’s association
indicating that the individual post or auxiliary unit is in good standing with
the national veteran’s association or has received a letter from the national
veteran’s association indicating that the state headquarters is in good
standing with the national veteran’s association. As used in this definition,
NATIONAL VETERAN’S ASSOCIATION means any veteran’s association that has been in
continuous existence as such for a period of at least five years and either is
incorporated by an act of the United States Congress or has a national dues-
paying membership of at least 5,000 persons.
   VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER’S ORGANIZATION. Any organization of volunteer
firefighters, as defined in R.C. § 146.01, that is organized and operated
exclusively to provide financial support for a volunteer fire department or a
volunteer fire company and that is recognized or ratified by a county,
municipal corporation, or township.
   VOLUNTEER RESCUE SERVICE ORGANIZATION. Any organization of volunteers
organized to function as an emergency medical service organization, as defined
in R.C. § 4765.01.
   YOUTH ATHLETIC ORGANIZATION. Any organization, not organized for profit,
that is organized and operated exclusively to provide financial support to, or
to operate, athletic activities for persons who are 21 years of age or younger
by means of sponsoring, organizing, operating, or contributing to the support
of an athletic team, club, league, or association.
   YOUTH ATHLETIC PARK ORGANIZATION. Any organization, not organized for
profit, that satisfies both of the following:
      (1)   It owns, operates, and maintains playing fields that satisfy both
of the following:
         (a)   The playing fields are used for athletic activities by one or
more organizations, not organized for profit, each of which is organized and
operated exclusively to provide financial support to, or to operate, athletic
activities for persons who are 18 years of age or younger by means of
sponsoring, organizing, operating, or contributing to the support of an
athletic team, club, league, or association.
         (b)   The playing fields are not used for any profit-making activity
at any time during the year.
      (2)   It uses the proceeds of bingo it conducts exclusively for the
operation, maintenance, and improvement of its playing fields of the type
described in division (1) of this definition.
(R.C. § 2915.01)
§ 134.02 PROHIBITIONS AGAINST GAMBLING; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Engage in bookmaking, or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates bookmaking.
      (2)   Establish, promote, or operate or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance.
      (3)   Knowingly procure, transmit, exchange, or engage in conduct that
facilitates the procurement, transmission, or exchange of information for use
in establishing odds or determining winners in connection with bookmaking or
with any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance.
      (4)   Engage in betting or in playing any scheme or game of chance as a
substantial source of income or livelihood.
      (5)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
and either:
         (a)   Give to another person any item described in R.C. § 2915.01(VV)
(1), (VV)(2), (VV)(3), or (VV)(4) as a prize for playing or participating in a
sweepstakes; or
         (b)   Give to another person any merchandise prize, or a redeemable
voucher for a merchandise prize, the wholesale value of which is in excess of
$10 and which is awarded as a single entry for playing or participating in a
sweepstakes. Redeemable vouchers shall not be redeemable for a merchandise
prize that has a wholesale value of more than $10.
      (6)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
without first obtaining a current annual “certificate of registration” from the
Attorney General as required by R.C. § 2915.02(F).
      (7)   With purpose to violate division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
(A)(5), or (A)(6) of this section, acquire, possess, control, or operate any
gambling device.
   (B)   For purposes of division (A)(1) of this section, a person facilitates
bookmaking if the person in any way knowingly aids an illegal bookmaking
operation, including, without limitation, placing a bet with a person engaged
in or facilitating illegal bookmaking. For purposes of division (A)(2) of this
section, a person facilitates a game of chance conducted for profit or a scheme
of chance if the person in any way knowingly aids in the conduct or operation
of any such game or scheme, including, without limitation, playing any such
game or scheme.
   (C)   This section does not prohibit conduct in connection with gambling
expressly permitted by law.
   (D)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Games of chance, if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The games of chance are not craps for money or roulette for
money.
         (b)   The games of chance are conducted by a charitable organization
that is and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a determination
letter that is currently in effect, stating that the organization is exempt
from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a), being 26 U.S.C. § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c)(3).
         (c)   The games of chance are conducted at festivals of the charitable
organization that are conducted not more than a total of five days a calendar
year, and are conducted on premises owned by the charitable organization for a
period of no less than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the
games of chance, on premises leased from a governmental unit, or on premises
that are leased from a veteran’s or fraternal organization and that have been
owned by the lessor veteran’s or fraternal organization for a period of no less
than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the games of chance. A
charitable organization shall not lease premises from a veteran’s or fraternal
organization to conduct a festival described in this division, if the veteran’s
or fraternal organization already has leased the premises 12 times during the
preceding year to charitable organizations for that purpose. If a charitable
organization leases premises from a veteran’s or fraternal organization to
conduct a festival described in this division, the charitable organization
shall not pay a rental rate for the premises per day of the festival that
exceeds the rental rate per bingo session that a charitable organization may
pay under R.C. § 2915.09(B)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance when it leases premises from another charitable organization to
conduct bingo games.
         (d)   All of the money or assets received from the games of chance
after deduction only of prizes paid out during the conduct of the games of
chance are used by, given, donated or otherwise transferred to any organization
that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that is tax exempt under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c)(3).
         (e)   The games of chance are not conducted during or within ten hours
of a bingo game conducted for amusement purposes only pursuant to R.C. §
2915.12 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance. No person shall
receive any commission, wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity, or other
form of compensation, directly or indirectly, for operating or assisting in the
operation of any game of chance.
      (2)   Any tag fishing tournament, as defined in R.C. § 1531.01, operated
under a permit issued under R.C. § 1533.92.
      (3)   Bingo conducted by a charitable organization that holds a license
issued under R.C. § 2915.08.
   (E)   Division (D) of this section shall not be construed to authorize the
sale, lease, or other temporary or permanent transfer of the right to conduct
games of chance, as granted by that division, by any charitable organization
that is granted that right.
   (F)   Any person desiring to conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a
sweepstakes with the use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes
terminal device facility shall first register with the Office of the Attorney
General and obtain an annual certificate of registration by providing a filing
fee of $200 and all information as required by rule adopted under R.C. §
2915.02(H). Not later than the tenth day of each month, each sweepstakes
terminal device operator shall file a sweepstakes terminal device monthly
report with the Attorney General and provide a filing fee of $50 and all
information required by rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.02(H). All information
provided to the Attorney General under this division shall be available to law
enforcement upon request.
   (G)   (1)   A person may apply to the Attorney General, on a form prescribed
by the Attorney General, for a certificate of compliance that the person is not
operating a sweepstakes terminal device facility. The form shall require the
person to include the address of the business location where sweepstakes
terminal devices will be used and to make the following certifications:
         (a)   That the person will not use more than two sweepstakes terminal
devices at the business location;
         (b)   That the retail value of sweepstakes prizes to be awarded at the
business location using sweepstakes terminal devices during a reporting period
will be less than 3% of the gross revenue received at the business location
during the reporting period;
         (c)   That no other form of gaming except lottery ticket sales as
authorized under R.C. Chapter 3770 will be conducted at the business location
or in an adjoining area of the business location;
         (d)   That any sweepstakes terminal device at the business location
will not allow any deposit of any money, coin, or token, or the use of any
credit card, debit card, prepaid card, or any other method of similar payment
to be used, directly or indirectly, to participate in a sweepstakes;
         (e)   That notification of any prize will not take place on the same
day as a participant’s sweepstakes entry; and
         (f)   That the person consents to provide any other information to the
Attorney General as required by rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.02(H).
      (2)   The filing fee for a certificate of compliance is $250. The
Attorney General may charge up to an additional $250 for reasonable expenses
resulting from any investigation related to an application for a certificate of
compliance.
      (3)   A certificate of compliance is effective for one year. The
certificate holder may reapply for a certificate of compliance. A person issued
a certificate of compliance shall file semiannual reports with the Attorney
General stating the number of sweepstakes terminal devices at the business
location and that the retail value of prizes awarded at the business location
using sweepstakes terminal devices is less than 3% of the gross revenue
received at the business location.
   (H)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of gambling, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling
offense, gambling is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
Notwithstanding this division, failing to file a sweepstakes terminal device
monthly report as required by division (F) of this section or the semiannual
report required by division (G) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2915.02(A) - (G), (K))
§ 134.03 OPERATING A GAMBLING HOUSE.
   (A)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control, or
supervision of premises, shall:
      (1)   Use or occupy the premises for gambling in violation of R.C. §
2915.02 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   Recklessly permit the premises to be used or occupied for gambling
in violation of R.C. § 2915.02 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of operating a
gambling house, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of a gambling offense, operating a gambling house is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   Premises used or occupied in violation of this section constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement under R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2915.03)
§ 134.04 PUBLIC GAMING.
   (A)   No person, while at a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall,
or other place of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort shall
make a bet or play any game of chance or scheme of chance.
   (B)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control, or
supervision of a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall, or other place
of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort shall recklessly permit
those premises to be used or occupied in violation of division (A) of this
section.
   (C)   Divisions (A) and (B) of this section do not prohibit conduct in
connection with gambling expressly permitted by law.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public gaming. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, public gaming is a minor misdemeanor. If
the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling offense, public
gaming is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (E)   Premises used or occupied in violation of division (B) of this section
constitute a nuisance subject to abatement under R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2915.04)
§ 134.05 CHEATING.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome
of any of the following:
      (1)   The subject of a bet.
      (2)   A contest of knowledge, skill, or endurance that is not an athletic
or sporting event.
      (3)   A scheme or game of chance.
      (4)   Bingo.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Offer, give, solicit, or accept anything of value to corrupt the
outcome of an athletic or sporting event.
      (2)   Engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome of an athletic or
sporting event.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
cheating. Except as otherwise provided in this division, cheating is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the potential gain from the cheating is
$1,000 or more or if the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling
offense or of any theft offense as defined in R.C. § 2913.01, cheating is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
corrupting sports. Corrupting sports is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.05)
§ 134.06 REGULATIONS CONCERNING OPERATION OF LICENSED BINGO GAME.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo shall fail to do any of
the following:
      (1)   Own all of the equipment used to conduct bingo or lease that
equipment from a charitable organization that is licensed to conduct bingo, or
from the landlord of a premises where bingo is conducted, for a rental rate
that is not more than is customary and reasonable for that equipment;
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(3) of this section,
use all of the gross receipts from bingo for paying prizes, for reimbursement
of expenses for or for renting premises in which to conduct bingo, for
reimbursement of expenses for or for purchasing or leasing bingo supplies used
in conducting bingo, for reimbursement of expenses for or for hiring security
personnel, for reimbursement of expenses for or for advertising bingo, or for
reimbursement of other expenses or for other expenses listed in the definition
for “expenses” in R.C. § 2915.01, provided that the amount of the receipts so
spent is not more than is customary and reasonable for a similar purchase,
lease, hiring, advertising, or expense. If the building in which bingo is
conducted is owned by the charitable organization conducting bingo and the
bingo conducted includes a form of bingo described in division (1) of the
definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01, the charitable organization may deduct
from the total amount of the gross receipts from each session a sum equal to
the lesser of $600 or 45% of the gross receipts from the bingo described in
that division as consideration for the use of the premises;
      (3)   Use, or give, donate, or otherwise transfer, all of the net profit
derived from bingo described in R.C. § 2915.01(O)(1) for a charitable purpose
listed in its license application and described in R.C. § 2915.01(V), or
distribute all of the net profit from the proceeds of the sale of instant bingo
or electronic instant bingo as stated in its license application and in
accordance with R.C. § 2915.101, as applicable.
   (B)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall fail to do
any of the following:
      (1)   Conduct the bingo game on premises that are owned by the charitable
organization, on premises that are owned by another charitable organization and
leased from that charitable organization for a rental rate not in excess of the
lesser of $650 per bingo session or 45% of the gross receipts of the bingo
session, on premises that are leased from a person other than a charitable
organization for a rental rate that is not more than is customary and
reasonable for premises that are similar in location, size, and quality but not
in excess of $450 per bingo session, or on premises that are owned by a person
other than a charitable organization, that are leased from that person by
another charitable organization, and that are subleased from that other
charitable organization by the charitable organization for a rental rate not in
excess of $450 per bingo session. No charitable organization is required to pay
property taxes or assessments on premises that the charitable organization
leases from another person to conduct bingo sessions. If the charitable
organization leases from a person other than a charitable organization the
premises on which it conducts bingo sessions, the lessor of the premises shall
provide only the premises to the organization and shall not provide the
organization with bingo game operators, security personnel, concessions or
concession operators, bingo supplies, or any other type of service. A
charitable organization shall not lease or sublease premises that it owns or
leases to more than three other charitable organizations per calendar week for
conducting bingo sessions on the premises. A person that is not a charitable
organization shall not lease premises that it owns, leases, or otherwise is
empowered to lease to more than three charitable organizations per calendar
week for conducting bingo sessions on the premises. In no case shall more than
nine bingo sessions be conducted on any premises in any calendar week;
      (2)   Display its license conspicuously at the premises where the bingo
session is conducted;
      (3)   Conduct the bingo session in accordance with division (1) of the
definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01.
   (C)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for operating a bingo
session that is conducted by the charitable organization or for preparing,
selling, or serving food or beverages at the site of the bingo session, permit
any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to pay
compensation to any bingo game operator who prepares, sells, or serves food or
beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable organization, or
permit any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to prepare,
sell, or serve food or beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable
organization, if the auxiliary unit or society pays any compensation to the
bingo game operators who prepare, sell, or serve the food or beverages;
      (2)   Pay consulting fees to any person for any services performed in
relation to the bingo session;
      (3)   Pay concession fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in the bingo session;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(4) of this section,
conduct more than three bingo sessions in any seven-day period. A volunteer
firefighter’s organization or a volunteer rescue service organization that
conducts not more than five bingo sessions in a calendar year may conduct more
than three bingo sessions in a seven-day period after notifying the Attorney
General when it will conduct the sessions;
      (5)   Pay out more than $6,000 in prizes for bingo games described in
R.C. § 2915.01(S)(1) during any bingo session that is conducted by the
charitable organization. “Prizes” does not include awards from the conduct of
instant bingo.
      (6)   Conduct a bingo session at any time during the eight-hour period
between 2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m., at any time during, or within ten hours of, a
bingo game conducted for amusement only pursuant to R.C. § 2915.12 or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, at any premises not specified on
its license, or on any day of the week or during any time period not specified
on its license. This division does not prohibit the sale of instant bingo
tickets beginning at 9:00 a.m. for a bingo session that begins at 10:00 a.m. If
circumstances make it impractical for the charitable organization to conduct a
bingo session at the premises, or on the day of the week or at the time
specified on its license or if a charitable organization wants to conduct bingo
sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than the day or time specified
on its license, the charitable organization may apply in writing to the
Attorney General for an amended license pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08(J). A
charitable organization may apply twice in each calendar year for an amended
license to conduct bingo sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than
the day or time specified on its license. If the amended license is granted,
the organization may conduct bingo sessions at the premises, on the day of the
week, and at the time specified on its amended license;
      (7)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, is under the age of 18 to work as a bingo game operator;
      (8)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any
jurisdiction to be a bingo game operator;
      (9)   Permit the lessor of the premises on which the bingo session is
conducted, if the lessor is not a charitable organization, to provide the
charitable organization with bingo game operators, security personnel,
concessions, bingo supplies, or any other type of service;
      (10)   Purchase or lease bingo supplies from any person except a
distributor issued a license under R.C. § 2915.081;
      (11)   (a)   Use or permit the use of electronic bingo aids except under
the following circumstances:
            1.   For any single participant, not more than 90 bingo faces can
be played using an electronic bingo aid or aids.
            2.   The charitable organization shall provide a participant using
an electronic bingo aid with corresponding paper bingo cards or sheets.
            3.   The total price of bingo faces played with an electronic bingo
aid shall be equal to the total price of the same number of bingo faces played
with a paper bingo card or sheet sold at the same bingo session but without an
electronic bingo aid.
            4.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be part of an electronic
network other than a network that includes only bingo aids and devices that are
located on the premises at which the bingo is being conducted or be interactive
with any device not located on the premises at which the bingo is being
conducted.
            5.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to participate in bingo
that is conducted at a location other than the location at which the bingo
session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
            6.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to provide for the
input of numbers and letters announced by a bingo caller other than the bingo
caller who physically calls the numbers and letters at the location at which
the bingo session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
         (b)   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 119 that govern the use of electronic bingo aids. The rules may include
a requirement that an electronic bingo aid be capable of being audited by the
Attorney General to verify the number of bingo cards or sheets played during
each bingo session.
      (12)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, to be under 18 years of age to play bingo described in division (1)
of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01.
   (D)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section,
no charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator, and no bingo
game operator shall receive or accept, any commission, wage, salary, reward,
tip, donation, gratuity, or other form of compensation, directly or indirectly,
regardless of the source, for conducting bingo or providing other work or labor
at the site of bingo during a bingo session.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section, no
charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator any commission,
wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity, or other form of compensation,
directly or indirectly regardless of the source, for conducting instant bingo,
electronic instant bingo, or both other than at a bingo session at the site of
instant bingo, electronic instant bingo, or both other than at a bingo session.
      (3)   Nothing in this division (D) of this section prohibits an employee
of a fraternal organization, veteran’s organization, or sporting organization
from selling instant bingo tickets or cards to the organization’s members or
invited guests, as long as no portion of the employee’s compensation is paid
from any receipts of bingo.
   (E)   Notwithstanding division (B)(1) of this section, a charitable
organization that, prior to December 6, 1977, has entered into written
agreements for the lease of premises it owns to another charitable organization
or other charitable organizations for the conducting of bingo sessions so that
more than two bingo sessions are conducted per calendar week on the premises,
and a person that is not a charitable organization and that, prior to December
6, 1977, has entered into written agreements for the lease of premises it owns
to charitable organizations for the conducting of more than two bingo sessions
per calendar week on the premises, may continue to lease the premises to those
charitable organizations, provided that no more than four sessions are
conducted per calendar week, that the lessor organization or person has
notified the Attorney General in writing of the organizations that will conduct
the sessions and the days of the week and the times of the day on which the
sessions will be conducted, that the initial lease entered into with each
organization that will conduct the sessions was filed with the Attorney General
prior to December 6, 1977, and that each organization that will conduct the
sessions was issued a license to conduct bingo games by the Attorney General
prior to December 6, 1977.
   (F)   This section does not prohibit a bingo licensed charitable
organization or a game operator from giving any person an instant bingo ticket
as a prize.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of
illegally conducting a bingo game, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11), or (D)
of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously
has been convicted of a violation of division (A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2),
(B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11), or (D) of this section, a violation of division
(A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11), or (D) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Whoever violates division (C)(12)
of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (C)(12) of this
section, a violation of division (C)(12) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.09)
§ 134.07 RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo or a game of chance
pursuant to R.C. § 2915.02(D), or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, shall fail to maintain the following records for at least three
years from the date on which the bingo or game of chance is conducted:
      (1)   An itemized list of the gross receipts of each bingo session, each
game of instant bingo by serial number, each electronic instant bingo game by
serial number, each raffle, each punch board game, and each game of chance, and
an itemized list of the gross profits of each game of instant bingo by serial
number and each electronic instant bingo game by serial number;
      (2)   An itemized list of all expenses, other than prizes, that are
incurred in conducting bingo, the name of each person to whom the expenses are
paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses;
      (3)   A list of all prizes awarded during each bingo session, each
raffle, each punch board game, and each game of chance conducted by the
charitable organization, the total prizes awarded from each game of instant
bingo by serial number and each electronic instant bingo game by serial number,
and the name, address, and social security number of all persons who are
winners of prizes of $600 or more in value;
      (4)   An itemized list of the recipients of the net profit of bingo or
game of chance, including the name and address of each recipient to whom the
money is distributed, and if the organization uses the net profit of bingo, or
the money or assets received from a game of chance, for any charitable or other
purpose set forth in R.C. § 2915.01(V), R.C. § 2915.02(D), or R.C. § 2915.101,
a list of each purpose and an itemized list of each expenditure for each
purpose;
      (5)   The number of persons who participate in any bingo session or game
of chance that is conducted by the charitable organization;
      (6)   A list of receipts from the sale of food and beverages by the
charitable organization or one of its auxiliary units or societies, if the
receipts were excluded from “gross receipts” under R.C. § 2915.01(T);
      (7)   An itemized list of all expenses incurred at each bingo session,
each raffle, each punch board game, or each game of instant bingo or electronic
instant bingo conducted by the charitable organization in the sale of food and
beverages by the charitable organization or by an auxiliary unit or society of
the charitable organization, the name of each person to whom the expenses are
paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses.
   (B)   A charitable organization shall keep the records that it is required
to maintain pursuant to division (A) of this section at its principal place of
business in this state or at its headquarters in this state and shall notify
the Attorney General of the location at which those records are kept.
   (C)   The gross profit from each bingo session or game described in division
(1) or (2) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall be deposited
into a checking account devoted exclusively to the bingo session or game.
Payments for allowable expenses incurred in conducting the bingo session or
game and payments to recipients of some or all of the net profit of the bingo
session or game shall be made only by checks or electronic fund transfers drawn
on the bingo session or game account.
   (D)   Each charitable organization shall conduct and record an inventory of
all of its bingo supplies as of the first day of November of each year.
   (E)   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with R.C. Chapter
119 that establish standards of accounting, record keeping, and reporting to
ensure that gross receipts from bingo or games of chance are properly accounted
for.
   (F)   A distributor shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing to another person bingo supplies for use in this state.
The record shall include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name of the manufacturer from which the distributor purchased
the bingo supplies and the date of the purchase;
      (2)   The name and address of the charitable organization or other
distributor to which the bingo supplies were sold or otherwise provided;
      (3)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies;
      (4)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each charitable organization.
   (G)   A manufacturer shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing bingo supplies for use in this state. The record shall
include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name and address of the distributor to whom the bingo supplies
were sold or otherwise provided;
      (2)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies, including
serial numbers;
      (3)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each distributor.
   (H)   (1)   The Attorney General or any law enforcement agency may do all of
the following:
         (a)   Investigate any charitable organization, distributor, or
manufacturer or any officer, agent, trustee, member, or employee of the
organization, distributor, or manufacturer;
         (b)   Examine the accounts and records of the charitable organization,
distributor, or manufacturer or of any officer, agent, trustee, member, or
employee of the organization, distributor, or manufacturer;
         (c)   Conduct inspections, audits, and observations of bingo or games
of chance;
         (d)   Conduct inspections of the premises where bingo or games of
chance are conducted or where bingo supplies are manufactured or distributed;
         (e)   Take any other necessary and reasonable action to determine if a
violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 has occurred
and to determine whether R.C. § 2915.11, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, has been complied with.
      (2)   If any law enforcement agency has reasonable grounds to believe
that a charitable organization, distributor, or manufacturer or an officer,
agent, trustee, member, or employee of the organization, distributor, or
manufacturer has violated any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915,
the law enforcement agency may proceed by action in the proper court to enforce
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915, provided that the law enforcement agency
shall give written notice to the Attorney General when commencing an action as
described in this division.
   (I)   No person shall destroy, alter, conceal, withhold, or deny access to
any accounts or records of a charitable organization, distributor, or
manufacturer that have been requested for examination, or obstruct, impede, or
interfere with any inspection, audit, or observation of bingo or a game of
chance, of premises where bingo or a game of chance is conducted, or of
premises where bingo supplies are manufactured or distributed, or refuse to
comply with any reasonable request of, or obstruct, impede, or interfere with
any other reasonable action undertaken by, the Attorney General or a law
enforcement agency pursuant to division (H) of this section.
   (J)   Whoever violates division (A) or (I) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2915.10)
§ 134.08 REQUIREMENTS FOR BINGO GAME OPERATORS.
   (A)   No person shall be a bingo game operator unless the person is 18 years
of age or older.
   (B)   No person who has been convicted of a felony or a gambling offense in
any jurisdiction shall be a bingo game operator.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. Whoever violates division (B) of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2915.11)
§ 134.09 BINGO GAMES FOR AMUSEMENT ONLY.
   (A)   Sections
134.06 through
134.13 and 134.15 do not apply to bingo games that are conducted for the
purpose of amusement only. A bingo game is conducted for the purpose of
amusement only if it complies with all of the requirements specified in either
division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section.
      (1)   (a)   The participants do not pay any money or any other thing of
value, including an admission fee or any fee, for bingo cards or sheets,
objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in playing bingo, for the
privilege of participating in the bingo game, or to defray any costs of the
game, or pay tips or make donations during or immediately before or after the
bingo game.
         (b)   All prizes awarded during the course of the game are non-
monetary, and in the form of merchandise, goods, or entitlement to goods or
services only, and the total value of all prizes awarded during the game is
less than $100.
         (c)   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity,
or other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         (d)   The bingo game is not conducted either during or within ten
hours of any of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to R.C. §§ 2915.07 through 2915.11 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
            2.   A scheme or game of chance, or bingo described in R.C. §
2915.01(O)(2).
         (e)   The number of players participating in the bingo game does not
exceed 50.
      (2)   (a)   The participants do not pay money or any other thing of value
as an admission fee, and no participant is charged more than $0.25 to purchase
a bingo card or sheet, objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in
playing bingo.
         (b)   The total amount of money paid by all of the participants for
bingo cards or sheets, objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in
playing bingo does not exceed $100.
         (c)   All of the money paid for bingo cards or sheets, objects to
cover spaces, or other devices used in playing bingo is used only to pay
winners monetary and nonmonetary prizes and to provide refreshments.
         (d)   The total value of all prizes awarded during the game does not
exceed $100.
         (e)   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity,
or other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         (f)   The bingo game is not conducted during or within ten hours of
either of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to R.C. §§ 2915.07 through 2915.15 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance;
            2.   A scheme of chance or a game of chance, or bingo described in
R.C. § 2915.01(O)(2).
         (g)   All of the participants reside at the premises where the bingo
game is conducted.
         (h)   The bingo games are conducted on different days of the week and
not more than twice in a calendar week.
   (B)   The Attorney General or any local law enforcement agency may
investigate the conduct of a bingo game that purportedly is conducted for
purposes of amusement only if there is reason to believe that the purported
amusement bingo game does not comply with the requirements of either division
(A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section. A local law enforcement agency may proceed by
action in the proper court to enforce this section if the local law enforcement
agency gives written notice to the Attorney General when commencing the action.
(R.C. § 2915.12)
§ 134.10 PROHIBITIONS WHERE INSTANT BINGO GAME IS CONDUCTED.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts instant bingo shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 2915.09(A)(1), (A)
(2), and (A)(3), or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   Conduct instant bingo unless either of the following applies:
         (a)   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a), is
described in IRC § 501(c)(3), is a charitable organization as defined in R.C. §
2915.01, is in good standing in the state pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08, and is in
compliance with R.C. Chapter 1716;
         (b)   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a), is
described in IRC § 501(c)(7), (c)(8), (c)(10), or (c)(19) or is a veteran’s
organization described in IRC § 501(c)(4), and conducts instant bingo under
R.C. § 2915.13.
      (3)   Conduct instant bingo on any day, at any time, or at any premises
not specified on the organization’s license issued pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08;
      (4)   Permit any person whom the organization knows or should have known
has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction to be a
bingo game operator in the conduct of instant bingo;
      (5)   Purchase or lease supplies used to conduct instant bingo or punch
board games from any person except a distributor licensed under R.C. §
2915.081;
      (6)   Sell or provide any instant bingo ticket or card for a price
different from the price printed on it by the manufacturer on either the
instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare;
      (7)   Sell an instant bingo ticket or card to a person under 18 years of
age;
      (8)   Fail to keep unsold instant bingo tickets or cards for less than
three years;
      (9)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting
instant bingo that is conducted by the organization or for preparing, selling,
or serving food or beverages at the site of the instant bingo game, permit any
auxiliary unit or society of the organization to pay compensation to any bingo
game operator who prepares, sells, or serves food or beverages at an instant
bingo game conducted by the organization, or permit any auxiliary unit or
society of the organization to prepare, sell, or serve food or beverages at an
instant bingo game conducted by the organization, if the auxiliary unit or
society pays any compensation to the bingo game operators who prepare, sell, or
serve the food or beverages;
      (10)   Pay fees to any person for any services performed in relation to
an instant bingo game, except as provided in R.C. § 2915.093(D);
      (11)   Pay fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in an instant bingo game;
      (12)   (a)   Allow instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold to bingo
game operators at a premises at which the organization sells instant bingo
tickets or cards or to be sold to employees of a D permit holder who are
working at a premises at which instant bingo tickets or cards are sold;
         (b)   Division (A)(12)(a) of this section does not prohibit a licensed
charitable organization or a bingo game operator from giving any person an
instant bingo ticket as a prize in place of a cash prize won by a participant
in an instant bingo game. In no case shall an instant bingo ticket or card be
sold or provided for a price different from the price printed on it by the
manufacturer on either the instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare.
      (13)   Fail to display its bingo license, and the serial numbers of the
deal of instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold, conspicuously at each
premises at which it sells instant bingo tickets or cards;
      (14)   Possess a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards that was not
purchased from a distributor licensed under R.C. § 2915.081 as reflected on an
invoice issued by the distributor that contains all of the information required
by R.C. § 2915.10(E);
      (15)   Fail, once it opens a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards, to
continue to sell the tickets or cards in that deal until the tickets or cards
with the top two highest tiers of prizes in that deal are sold;
      (16)   Possess bingo supplies that were not obtained in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (B)   A charitable organization may purchase, lease, or use instant bingo
ticket dispensers to sell instant bingo tickets or cards.
   (C)   Pursuant to R.C. § 2915.091(C), the Attorney General may adopt rules
in accordance with R.C. Chapter 119 that govern the conduct of instant bingo by
charitable organizations.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section or a rule adopted under
division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, illegal instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (A) of this section or of such a rule adopted under
division (C) of this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.091)
§ 134.11 RAFFLE DRAWINGS.
   (A)   (1)   Subject to division (A)(2) of this section, a person or entity
that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and is described
in IRC §§ 501(c)(3), 501(c)(4), 501(c)(6), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10), or
501(c)(19) may conduct a raffle to raise money for the person or entity and
does not need a license to conduct bingo in order to conduct a raffle drawing
that is not for profit.
      (2)   If a person or entity that is described in division (A)(1) of this
section, but that is not also described in IRC § 501(c)(3), conducts a raffle,
the person or entity shall distribute at least 50% of the net profit from the
raffle to a charitable purpose described in R.C. § 2915.01(V) or to a
department or agency of the federal government, the state, or any political
subdivision.
   (B)   A chamber of commerce may conduct not more than one raffle per year to
raise money for the chamber of commerce.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (A) or (B) of this section, no person
shall conduct a raffle drawing that is for profit or a raffle drawing that is
not for profit.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal
conduct of a raffle. Except as otherwise provided in this division, illegal
conduct of a raffle is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (C) of this section,
illegal conduct of a raffle is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2915.092)
§ 134.12 INSTANT BINGO OTHER THAN AT BINGO SESSIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, RETAIL INCOME FROM ALL COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY
means the income that a person receives from the provision of goods, services,
or activities that are provided at the location where instant bingo other than
at a bingo session is conducted, including the sale of instant bingo tickets. A
religious organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §
501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3), at not more than one location at which
it conducts its charitable programs, may include donations from its members and
guests as retail income.
   (B)   (1)   If a charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant
bingo other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued under R.C.
§ 2915.08, the charitable instant bingo organization shall enter into a written
contract with the owner or lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is
conducted to allow the owner or lessor to assist in the conduct of instant
bingo other than at a bingo session, identify each location where the instant
bingo other than at a bingo session is being conducted, and identify the owner
or lessor of each location.
      (2)   A charitable instant bingo organization that conducts instant bingo
other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued under R.C. §
2915.08 is not required to enter into a written contract with the owner or
lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is conducted provided that
the owner or lessor is not assisting in the conduct of the instant bingo other
than at a bingo session and provided that the conduct of the instant bingo
other than at a bingo session at that location is not more than five days per
calendar year and not more than ten hours per day.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (F) of this section, no charitable
instant bingo organization shall conduct instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at a location where the primary source of retail income from all
commercial activity at that location is the sale of instant bingo tickets.
   (D)   (1)   The owner or lessor of a location that enters into a contract
pursuant to division (B) of this section shall pay the full gross profit to the
charitable instant bingo organization, in return for the deal of instant bingo
tickets. The owner or lessor may retain the money that the owner or lessor
receives for selling the instant bingo tickets, provided, however, that after
the deal has been sold, the owner or lessor shall pay to the charitable instant
bingo organization the value of any unredeemed instant bingo prizes remaining
in the deal of instant bingo tickets.
      (2)   The charitable instant bingo organization shall pay 6% of the total
gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets for the purpose of
reimbursing the owner or lessor for expenses described in this division.
      (3)   As used in this division, EXPENSES means those items provided for
in R.C. § 2915.01(GG)(4), (GG)(5), (GG)(6), (GG)(7), (GG)(8), (GG)(12), and
(GG)(13) and that percentage of the owner’s or lessor’s rent for the location
where instant bingo is conducted. Expenses, in the aggregate, shall not exceed
6% of the total gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets.
      (4)   As used in this division, FULL GROSS PROFIT means the amount by
which the total receipts of all instant bingo tickets, if the deal has been
sold in full, exceeds the amount that would be paid out if all prizes were
redeemed.
   (E)   A charitable instant bingo organization shall provide the Attorney
General with all of the following information:
      (1)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has terminated a
contract entered into pursuant to division (B) of this section with an owner or
lessor of a location;
      (2)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has entered into a
written contract pursuant to division (B) of this section with a new owner or
lessor of a location;
      (3)   That the charitable instant bingo organization is aware of conduct
by the owner or lessor of a location at which instant bingo is conducted that
is in violation of R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (F)   Division (C) of this section does not apply to a volunteer
firefighter’s organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under
IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3), that conducts instant bingo
other than at a bingo session on the premises where the organization conducts
firefighter training, that has conducted instant bingo continuously for at
least five years prior to July 1, 2003, and that, during each of those five
years, had gross receipts of at least $1,500,000.
(R.C. § 2915.093)
   (G)   (1)   Subject to the requirements of R.C. §§ 2915.14 and 2915.15
concerning electronic instant bingo, a veteran's organization, a fraternal
organization, or a sporting organization authorized to conduct a bingo session
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2915 may conduct instant bingo, electronic instant
bingo, or both other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued
under R.C. § 2915.08 if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to 12
hours during any day, provided that the sale does not begin earlier than 10:00
a.m. and ends not later than 2:00 a.m.
         (b)   The veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to
its own premises and to its own members and invited guests.
         (c)   The veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization is raising money for an organization that is described in IRC §
509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an
organization that maintains its principal place of business in this state, that
is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC
§ 501(c)(3), and that is in good standing in this state and executes a written
contract with that organization as required in division (G)(2) of this section.
      (2)   If a veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization authorized to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant bingo
pursuant to division (G)(1) of this section is raising money for another
organization that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is
either a governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal
place of business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c), and that is in good standing
in this state, the veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization shall execute a written contract with the organization that is
described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a governmental
unit or an organization that maintains its principal place of business in this
state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c), and that is in good standing in this state in order
to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant bingo. That contract shall
include a statement of the percentage of the net proceeds that the veteran's,
fraternal, or sporting organization will be distributing to the organization
that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal place of
business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §
501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3), and that is in good standing in this
state.
      (3)   (a)   If a veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or
sporting organization authorized to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant
bingo pursuant to division (G)(1) of this section has been issued a liquor
permit under R.C. Chapter 4303, that permit may be subject to suspension,
revocation, or cancellation if the veteran's organization, fraternal
organization, or sporting organization violates a provision of this chapter or
R.C. Chapter 2915.
         (b)   No veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that enters into a written contract pursuant to division (G)(2) of
this section shall violate any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915,
or permit, aid, or abet any other person in violating any provision of this
chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
      (4)   A veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization shall give all required proceeds earned from the conduct of
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to the organization with which the
veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting organization has
entered into a written contract.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (G) of this section is guilty of illegal
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided
in this division, illegal instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conduct is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of division (G) of this section, illegal instant bingo
or electronic instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.13)
§ 134.13 RESTRICTIONS ON OWNER OR LESSOR OF LOCATION AT INSTANT BINGO.
   (A)   No owner or lessor of a location shall assist a charitable instant
bingo organization in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at that location unless the owner or lessor has entered into a written
contract, as described in R.C. § 2915.093, with the charitable instant bingo
organization to assist in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session.
   (B)   The location of the lessor or owner shall be designated as a location
where the charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant bingo other
than at a bingo session.
   (C)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (A) of this section shall violate any provision of
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915, or permit, aid, or abet any other person in
violating any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (D)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (A) of this section shall violate the terms of the
contract.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty
of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, illegal instant bingo conduct is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of division (C) or
(D) of this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If an owner or lessor of a location knowingly, intentionally, or
recklessly violates division (C) or (D) of this section, any license that the
owner or lessor holds for the retail sale of any goods on the owner’s or
lessor’s premises that is issued by the state or a political subdivision is
subject to suspension, revocation, or payment of a monetary penalty at the
request of the Attorney General.
(R.C. § 2915.094)
§ 134.14 SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINES; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall give to another person any item described in division
(1), (2), (3), or (4) of the definition for “merchandise prize” in §
134.01 in exchange for a noncash prize, toy, or novelty received as a reward
for playing or operating a skill-based amusement machine or for a free or
reduced-price game won on a skill-based amusement machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of skill-based
amusement machine prohibited conduct. A violation of division (A) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree for each redemption of a prize
that is involved in the violation. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of division (A) of this section, a violation of that
division is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.06)
   (C)   Any regulation of skill-based amusement machines shall be governed by
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 and not by R.C. Chapter 1345.
(R.C. § 2915.061)
§ 134.15 ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No charitable organization shall conduct electronic instant bingo
unless all of the following are true:
      (1)   The organization is a veteran's organization described in R.C. §
2915.01(J), or is a fraternal organization described in R.C. § 2915.01(L), and
the organization qualified as a veteran's organization or fraternal
organization, as applicable, on or before June 30, 2021.
      (2)   The organization is a veteran's organization described in IRC § 501
(c)(4) or is, and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a
determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the organization
is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a), and is described in
IRC § 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10), or 501(c)(19).
      (3)   The organization has not conducted a raffle in violation of R.C. §
2915.092(B) using an electronic raffle machine, as described in Ohio Veterans
and Fraternal Charitable Coalition v. DeWine, Case No. 13-CV-13610 (C.P.
Franklin Co. February 23, 2018), at any time on or after January 1, 2022.
   (B)   No charitable organization that conducts electronic instant bingo
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Possess an electronic instant bingo system that was not obtained in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 2915 or with any rule adopted under R.C. Chapter
2915;
      (2)   Conduct electronic instant bingo on any day, at any time, or on any
premises not specified on the organization's type II or type III license issued
under R.C. § 2915.08;
      (3)   Hold more than one valid license to conduct electronic instant
bingo at any one time;
      (4)   Conduct electronic instant bingo on more than one premises or on
any premises other than the charitable organization's principal place of
business;
      (5)   Operate more than ten electronic bingo systems at the premises on
which the charitable organization conducts electronic instant bingo under its
license;
      (6)   Fail to display both of the following conspicuously at the premises
on which the charitable organization conducts electronic instant bingo:
         (a)   The charitable organization's bingo license;
         (b)   The serial number of each deal of electronic instant bingo
tickets being sold.
      (7)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should have
known, to be under 18 years of age to play electronic instant bingo;
      (8)   Sell or provide to any person an electronic instant bingo ticket
for a price different from the price displayed on the game flare for that deal,
except that the charitable organization may give a participant who wins an
electronic instant bingo game an electronic instant bingo ticket as a prize in
place of a cash prize;
      (9)   Fail, once an electronic instant bingo deal is begun, to continue
to sell tickets in that deal until all prizes have been awarded;
      (10)   Permit any person whom the organization knows, or should have
known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction
to be a bingo game operator in the conduct of electronic instant bingo;
      (11)   Permit a bingo game operator to play electronic instant bingo;
      (12)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(12)(b) of this
section, pay compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting electronic
instant bingo.
         (b)   Division (B)(12)(a) of this section does not prohibit an
employee of a veteran's organization or fraternal organization from redeeming
electronic instant bingo tickets or vouchers for the organization's members or
invited guests, so long as no portion of the employee's compensation is paid
from any bingo receipts.
      (13)   Pay consulting fees to any person in relation to electronic
instant bingo.
   (C)   No person shall sell, offer to sell, or otherwise provide or offer to
provide an electronic instant bingo system to any person for use in this
municipality unless the electronic instant bingo system has been approved under
R.C. § 2915.15.
   (D)   Whoever knowingly violates division (A), (B), or (C) of this section
or a rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.14(D) is guilty of illegal electronic
instant bingo conduct. Illegal electronic instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree, except that if the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or state law, or of a rule adopted
under R.C. § 2915.14(D), illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.14)
CHAPTER 135: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
135.01   Definitions
   
135.02   Negligent homicide
   
135.03   Vehicular homicide; vehicular manslaughter; vehicular assault
   
135.04   Assault; negligent assault
   
135.05   Injury to persons by hunters
   
135.06   Menacing; aggravated menacing; menacing by stalking
   
135.07   Unlawful restraint
   
135.08   (Reserved)
   
135.09   Coercion
   
135.10   Bigamy
   
135.11   Unlawful abortion; failure to perform viability testing
   
135.12   Abortion trafficking
   
135.13   Nonsupport of dependents
   
135.14   Endangering children
   
135.15   Interference with custody; interference with support orders
   
135.16   Domestic violence
   
135.17   Hazing prohibited
   
135.18   Contributing to unruliness or delinquency of a child
   
135.19   Failure to provide for functionally impaired person
   
135.20   Patient abuse or neglect; patient endangerment; exceptions; false
statements; retaliation
   
135.21   Interference with right of person to engage in housing transactions
because of race, religion, or the like
   
135.22   Ethnic intimidation
   
135.23   Violating a protection order, consent agreement, anti-stalking
protection order or order issued by a court of another state
   
135.24   Adulteration of food
   
135.25   Illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products; transaction scans
   
135.26   Nonsmoking areas in places of public assembly
   
135.27   Spreading contagion
   
135.28   Abuse of a corpse
   
135.29   Unlawful collection of bodily substances
Statutory reference:
   Child care, misrepresentations by providers and failure to disclose death or
serious injuries,
    misdemeanors, see R.C. §§ 2919.223 et seq.
   Extortionate extension of credit, see R.C. §§ 2905.21 through 2905.24
   Failure to send child to school, see R.C. § 3321.38
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
   Reckless homicide, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.041
   Rights of victims of crimes, see R.C. Chapter 2930
§ 135.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of §§
135.01 through
135.06, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ANOTHER’S UNBORN or OTHER PERSON’S UNBORN. A member of the species Homo
sapiens who is or was carried in the womb of another during a period that
begins with fertilization and that continues unless and until live birth
occurs.
      UNLAWFUL TERMINATION OF ANOTHER’S PREGNANCY. Causing the death of an
unborn member of the species Homo sapiens who is or was carried in the womb of
another, as a result of injuries inflicted during the period that begins with
fertilization and that continues unless and until live birth occurs.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) of this section, in no case shall the
definitions of the terms “another’s unborn”, “other person’s unborn” and
“unlawful termination of another’s pregnancy” that are set forth in division
(A) of this section be applied or construed in any of the following manners:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(1) of this section, in
a manner so that the offense prohibits or is construed as prohibiting any
pregnant woman or her physician from performing an abortion with the consent of
the pregnant woman, with the consent of the pregnant woman implied by law in a
medical emergency, or with the approval of one otherwise authorized by law to
consent to medical treatment on behalf of the pregnant woman. An abortion that
violates the conditions described in the immediately preceding sentence may be
punished as any violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02, 2903.03, 2903.04,
2903.05, 2903.06, 2903.08, 2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13, 2903.14, 2919.15, 2903.21
or 2903.22, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, as applicable.
An abortion that does not violate the conditions described in the second
immediately preceding sentence but that does violate R.C. § 2919.12, 2919.13
(B), 2919.151, 2919.17 or 2919.18, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, may be punished as a violation of such section, as applicable.
      (2)   In a manner so that the offense is applied or is construed as
applying to a woman based on an act or omission of the woman that occurs while
she is or was pregnant and that results in any of the following:
         (a)   Her delivery of a stillborn baby.
         (b)   Her causing, in any other manner, the death in utero of a
viable, unborn human that she is carrying.
         (c)   Her causing the death of her child who is born alive but who
dies from one or more injuries that are sustained while the child is a viable,
unborn human.
         (d)   Her causing her child who is born alive to sustain one or more
injuries while the child is a viable, unborn human.
         (e)   Her causing, threatening to cause, or attempting to cause, in
any other manner, an injury, illness, or other psychological illness or
condition, regardless of its duration or gravity, to a viable, unborn human
that she is carrying.
(R.C. § 2903.09)
§ 135.02 NEGLIGENT HOMICIDE.
   (A)   No person shall negligently cause the death of another or the unlawful
termination of another’s pregnancy by means of a deadly weapon or dangerous
ordnance, as defined in R.C. § 2923.11.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of negligent homicide, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2903.05)
Statutory reference:
   Reckless homicide, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.041
§ 135.03 VEHICULAR HOMICIDE; VEHICULAR MANSLAUGHTER; VEHICULAR ASSAULT.
   (A)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle, motorcycle, snowmobile, locomotive, watercraft, or aircraft,
shall cause the death of another or the unlawful termination of another’s
pregnancy in any of the following ways:
      (1)   (a)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
4511.19(A) or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
1547.11(A), or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         (c)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
4561.15(A)(3), or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   In one of the following ways:
         (a)   Recklessly;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a
construction zone, a reckless operation offense, provided that this division
applies only if the person whose death is caused or whose pregnancy is
unlawfully terminated is in the construction zone at the time of the offender’s
commission of the reckless operation offense in the construction zone and does
not apply as described in division (D) of this section.
      (3)   In one of the following ways:
         (a)   Negligently;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a
construction zone, a speeding offense, provided that this division applies only
if the person whose death is caused or whose pregnancy is unlawfully terminated
is in the construction zone at the time of the offender’s commission of the
speeding offense in the construction zone and does not apply as described in
division (D) of this section.
      (4)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of any provision
of any section contained in R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor or of a
municipal ordinance that, regardless of the penalty set by ordinance for the
violation, is substantially equivalent to any provision of any section
contained in R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of aggravated vehicular homicide, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(3) of this section is guilty of
vehicular homicide. Except as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular
homicide is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular homicide committed in
violation of division (A)(3) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if, at the time of the offense, the offender was driving
under a suspension or cancellation imposed under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other
provision of the Ohio Revised Code or was operating a motor vehicle or
motorcycle, did not have a valid driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege, and was not eligible for renewal of the offender’s driver’s license
or commercial driver’s license without examination under R.C. § 4507.10 or if
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation
of this section or any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault
offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class four suspension of
the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of
vehicular manslaughter. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
vehicular manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the second degree. Vehicular
manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the first degree if, at the time of the
offense, the offender was driving under a suspension or cancellation imposed
under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code or was
operating a motor vehicle or motorcycle, did not have a valid driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege, and was not eligible for renewal
of the offender’s driver’s license or commercial driver’s license without
examination under R.C. § 4507.10 or if the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section or any traffic-
related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class six suspension of
the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6) or, if the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section, any
traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense, or a traffic-
related murder, felonious assault, or attempted murder offense, a class four
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
   (C)   The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of at least 15 days on an
offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor violation of
division (A)(3)(b) of this section and may impose upon the offender a longer
jail term as authorized pursuant to R.C. § 2929.24.
   (D)   Divisions (A)(2)(b) and (A)(3)(b) of this section do not apply in a
particular construction zone unless signs of the type described in R.C. §
2903.081 are erected in that construction zone in accordance with the
guidelines and design specifications established by the Director of
Transportation under R.C. § 5501.27. The failure to erect signs of the type
described in R.C. § 2903.081 in a particular construction zone in accordance
with those guidelines and design specifications does not limit or affect the
application of division (A)(1), (A)(2)(a), (A)(3)(a), or (A)(4) of this section
in that construction zone or the prosecution of any person who violates any of
those divisions in that construction zone.
   (E)   (1)   As used in this section:
         CONSTRUCTION ZONE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5501.27.
         MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         MANDATORY PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
         RECKLESS OPERATION OFFENSE. Means a violation of R.C. § 4511.20 or a
municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to R.C. § 4511.20.
         SPEEDING OFFENSE. Means a violation of R.C. § 4511.21 or a municipal
ordinance pertaining to speed.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED HOMICIDE, MANSLAUGHTER, OR ASSAULT OFFENSE. Means a
violation of R.C. § 2903.04 in circumstances in which division (D) of that
section applies, a violation of R.C. § 2903.06 or 2903.08, or a violation of
R.C. § 2903.06, 2903.07, or 2903.08 as they existed prior to March 23, 2000.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED MURDER, FELONIOUS ASSAULT, OR ATTEMPTED MURDER
OFFENSE. Means a violation of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02 in circumstances
in which the offender used a motor vehicle as the means to commit the
violation, a violation of R.C. § 2903.11(A)(2) in circumstances in which the
deadly weapon used in the commission of the violation is a motor vehicle, or an
attempt to commit aggravated murder or murder in violation of R.C. § 2923.02 in
circumstances in which the offender used a motor vehicle as the means to
attempt to commit the aggravated murder or murder.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, when a penalty or suspension is
enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a prior
or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the specified
law or the specified offense includes any violation of any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this state, or current or former
law of this or another state or the United States.
(R.C. § 2903.06)
   (F)   Vehicular assault.
      (1)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle or motorcycle, shall cause serious physical harm to another
person or another’s unborn as the proximate result of committing, while
operating or participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in
a construction zone, a speeding offense, provided that this division applies
only if the person to whom the serious physical harm is caused or to whose
unborn the serious physical harm is caused is in the construction zone at the
time of the offender’s commission of the speeding offense in the construction
zone and does not apply as described in division (F)(4) of this section.
      (2)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular
assault committed in violation of division (F)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular assault committed in violation of
division (F)(1) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law if, at the time of the offense, the offender was driving under a
suspension imposed under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Ohio
Revised Code or if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (F)(1) of this section, R.C. § 2903.08, or
any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed, the court shall
impose upon the offender a class four suspension of the offender’s driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (3)   The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of at least seven days
on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor violation
of division (F)(1) of this section and may impose upon the offender a longer
jail term as authorized pursuant to R.C. § 2929.24.
      (4)   Division (F)(1) of this section does not apply in a particular
construction zone unless signs of the type described in R.C. § 2903.081 are
erected in that construction zone in accordance with the guidelines and design
specifications established by the Director of Transportation under R.C. §
5501.27.
      (5)   As used in this division (F):
         CONSTRUCTION ZONE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5501.27.
         MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         SPEEDING OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.06.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED HOMICIDE, MANSLAUGHTER, OR ASSAULT OFFENSE. Has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.06.
      (6)   For the purposes of this division (F), when a penalty or suspension
is enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a
prior or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the
specified law or the specified offense includes any violation of any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this state, or
current or former law of another state or the United States.
(R.C. § 2903.08(A)(3), (C)(3), (D)(3), (E) - (G))
Statutory reference:
Trial court to suspend driver’s license, see R.C. § 4510.05
Vehicular assault and aggravated vehicular assault, felony offenses, see R.C. §
2903.08
§ 135.04 ASSAULT; NEGLIGENT ASSAULT.
   (A)   Assault.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm
to another or to another’s unborn.
      (2)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to another
or to another’s unborn.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of assault. Except as provided in R.C. § 2903.13(C), assault is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (4)   If an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to assault when
it is a misdemeanor also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification as
described in R.C. § 2941.1423 (victim of the offense was a woman whom the
defendant knew was pregnant at the time of the offense) that was included in
the indictment, count in the indictment, or information charging the offense,
the court shall sentence the offender to a mandatory jail term as provided in
R.C. § 2929.24(G).
(R.C. § 2903.13)
   (B)   Negligent assault.
      (1)   No person shall negligently, by means of a deadly weapon or
dangerous ordnance as defined in R.C. § 2923.11, cause physical harm to another
or to another’s unborn.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
negligent assault, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 2903.14)
Cross-reference:
   Jurisdictional limitation on Mayor regarding violations of division (A) of
this section, see §
33.01(E)
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated and felonious assault, see R.C. §§ 2903.11 and 2903.12
   Aggravated vehicular assault, felony, see R.C. § 2903.08
   Felony offenses: assaulting functionally impaired person, peace officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation,
firefighter, person performing emergency medical service, officer or employee
of a public children services agency or private child placing agency; assault
at a correctional institution; assault on school officials and school bus
drivers; health care professional, worker or security guard at a hospital under
certain circumstances; judge, magistrate, prosecutor or court official or
employee under certain circumstances, see R.C. § 2903.13(C)
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
   Persons who may seek relief under anti-stalking protection order; ex parte
orders, see R.C. § 2903.214
   Protection order as pretrial condition of release, see R.C. § 2903.213
§ 135.05 INJURY TO PERSONS BY HUNTERS.
   (A)   No person in the act of hunting, pursuing, taking, or killing a wild
animal shall act in a negligent, careless, or reckless manner so as to injure
persons.
(R.C. § 1533.171(A))
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 1533.99(C))
Statutory reference:
   Violation, license revocation, see R.C. § 1533.171(B) through (E)
§ 135.06 MENACING; AGGRAVATED MENACING; MENACING BY STALKING.
   (A)   Menacing.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the
offender will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other
person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s immediate
family. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that the
offender will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other
person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s immediate
family, the other person’s belief may be based on words or conduct of the
offender that are directed at or identify a corporation, association, or other
organization that employs the other person or to which the other person
belongs.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of
menacing. Except as otherwise provided in this division (A)(2), menacing is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the victim of the offense is an officer or
employee of a public children services agency or a private child placing agency
and the offense relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or
anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties, menacing is a
misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that
prior offense was an officer or employee of a public children services agency
or private child placing agency, and that prior offense related to the
officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated performance of official
responsibilities or duties, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (3)   As used in this division (A), ORGANIZATION includes an entity that
is a governmental employer.
(R.C. § 2903.22)
   (B)   Aggravated menacing.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the
offender will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of the
other person, such other person’s unborn, or a member of such other person’s
immediate family. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief
that the offender will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of
the other person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s
immediate family, the other person’s belief may be based on words or conduct of
the offender that are directed at or identify a corporation, association, or
other organization that employs the other person or to which the other person
belongs.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
aggravated menacing. Except as otherwise provided in this division (B)(2),
aggravated menacing is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the victim of the
offense is an officer or employee of a public children services agency or a
private child placing agency and the offense relates to the officer’s or
employee’s performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities
or duties, aggravated menacing is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an
officer or employee of a public children services agency or private child
placing agency, and that prior offense related to the officer’s or employee’s
performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties,
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   As used in this division (B), ORGANIZATION includes an entity that
is a governmental employer.
(R.C. § 2903.21)
   (C)   Menacing by stalking.
      (1)   (a)   No person by engaging in a pattern of conduct shall knowingly
cause another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to
the other person or a family or household member of the other person or cause
mental distress to the other person or a family or household member of the
other person. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that
the offender will cause physical harm to the other person or the other person’s
family or household member or mental distress to the other person or the other
person’s family or household member, the other person’s belief or mental
distress may be based on words or conduct of the offender that are directed at
or identify a corporation, association, or other organization that employs the
other person or to which the other person belongs.
         (b)   No person, through the use of any form of written communication
or any electronic method of remotely transferring information, including but
not limited to any computer, computer network, computer program, computer
system, or telecommunication device, shall post a message or use any
intentionally written or verbal graphic gesture with purpose to do either of
the following:
            1.   Violate division (C)(1)(a) of this section;
            2.   Urge or incite another to commit a violation of division (C)
(1)(a) of this section.
         (c)   No person, with a sexual motivation, shall violate division (C)
(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this section.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C)(1) of this section is guilty of
menacing by stalking.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2)(b) of this
section, menacing by stalking is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   Menacing by stalking is a felony, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law, if any of the following applies:
            1.   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 2903.211 or a violation of R.C. § 2911.211, or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to either of these offenses.
            2.   In committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b)
or (C)(1)(c) of this section, the offender made a threat of physical harm to or
against the victim, or as a result of an offense committed under division (C)
(1)(b) or (C)(1)(c) of this section, a third person induced by the offender’s
posted message made a threat of physical harm to or against the victim.
            3.   In committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b)
or (C)(1)(c) of this section, the offender trespassed on the land or premises
where the victim lives, is employed, or attends school, or as a result of an
offense committed under division (C)(1)(b) or (C)(1)(c) of this section, a
third person induced by the offender’s posted message trespassed on the land or
premises where the victim lives, is employed, or attends school.
            4.   The victim of the offense is a minor.
            5.   The offender has a history of violence towards the victim or
any other person or a history of other violent acts towards the victim or any
other person.
            6.   While committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a) of this
section or a violation of division (C)(1)(c) of this section based on conduct
in violation of division (C)(1)(a) of this section, the offender had a deadly
weapon on or about the offender’s person or under the offender’s control.
Division (C)(2)(b)6. of this section does not apply in determining the penalty
for a violation of division (C)(1)(b) of this section or a violation of
division (C)(1)(c) of this section based on conduct in violation of division
(C)(1)(b) of this section.
            7.   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
the subject of a protection order issued under R.C. § 2903.213 or R.C. §
2903.214, regardless of whether or not the person to be protected under the
order is the victim of the offense or another person.
            8.   In committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b)
or (C)(1)(c) of this section, the offender caused serious physical harm to the
premises at which the victim resides, to the real property on which that
premises is located, or to any personal property located on that premises, or
as a result of an offense committed under division (C)(1)(b) of this section or
an offense committed under division (C)(1)(c) of this section based on a
violation of division (C)(1)(b) of this section, a third person induced by the
offender’s posted message caused serious physical harm to that premises, that
real property, or any personal property on that premises.
            9.   Prior to committing the offense, the offender had been
determined to represent a substantial risk of physical harm to others as
manifested by evidence of then-recent homicidal or other violent behavior,
evidence of then-recent threats that placed another in reasonable fear of
violent behavior and serious harm, or other evidence of then-present
dangerousness.
            10.   The victim of the offense is an officer or employee of a
public children services agency or a private child placing agency and the
offense relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated
performance of official responsibilities or duties.
            11.   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an
officer or employee of a public children services agency or private child
placing agency, and that prior offense related to the officer’s or employee’s
performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties.
      (3)   R.C. § 2919.271 applies in relation to a defendant charged with a
violation of this section.
      (4)   As used in division (C) of this section:
         COMPUTER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         COMPUTER NETWORK. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         COMPUTER PROGRAM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         COMPUTER SYSTEM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
         EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency
medical services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
         FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
            1.   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
person against whom the act prohibited in division (C)(1)(a) of this section is
committed:
               a.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse
of the person;
               b.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the person, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the person;
               c.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse,
or former spouse of the person, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
person.
            2.   The natural parent of any child of whom the person against
whom the act prohibited in division (C)(1)(a) of this section is committed is
the other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
         MENTAL DISTRESS. Means any of the following:
            1.   Any mental illness or condition that involves some temporary
substantial incapacity;
            2.   Any mental illness or condition that would normally require
psychiatric treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health
services, whether or not any person requested or received psychiatric
treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health services.
         ORGANIZATION. Includes an entity that is a governmental employer.
         PATTERN OF CONDUCT. Means two or more actions or incidents closely
related in time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any
of those actions or incidents, or two or more actions or incidents closely
related in time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any
of those actions or incidents, directed at one or more persons employed by or
belonging to the same corporation, association, or other organization. Actions
or incidents that prevent, obstruct, or delay the performance by a public
official, firefighter, rescuer, emergency medical services person, or emergency
facility person of any authorized act within the public official’s,
firefighter’s, rescuer’s, emergency medical services person’s, or emergency
facility person’s official capacity, or the posting of messages, use of
intentionally written or verbal graphic gestures, or receipt of information or
data through the use of any form of written communication or an electronic
method of remotely transferring information, including but not limited to a
computer, computer network, computer program, computer system, or
telecommunications device, may constitute a “pattern of conduct.”
         PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has lived
with the person against whom the act prohibited in division (C)(1)(a) of this
section is committed in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise is
cohabiting with that person, or who otherwise has cohabited with the person
within five years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in
question.
         POST A MESSAGE. Means transferring, sending, posting, publishing,
disseminating, or otherwise communicating, or attempting to transfer, send,
post, publish, disseminate, or otherwise communicate, any message or
information, whether truthful or untruthful, about an individual, and whether
done under one’s own name, under the name of another, or while impersonating
another.
         PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.01.
         SEXUAL MOTIVATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2971.01.
         TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         THIRD PERSON. Means, in relation to conduct as described in division
(C)(1)(b) of this section, an individual who is neither the offender nor the
victim of the conduct.
      (5)   The prosecution does not need to prove in a prosecution under
division (C) of this section that a person requested or received psychiatric
treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health services in order to
show that the person was caused mental distress as described in division (2) of
the definition for “mental distress” in this section.
      (6)   (a)   Division (C) of this section does not apply to a person
solely because the person provided access or connection to or from an
electronic method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s
control, including having provided capabilities that are incidental to
providing access or connection to or from the electronic method of remotely
transferring the information, and that do not include the creation of the
content of the material that is the subject of the access or connection. In
addition, any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic
method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control
shall not be liable for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the
receipt or transmission through its service of any information that it believes
is or will be sent in violation of division (C) of this section.
         (b)   Division (C)(6)(a) of this section does not create an
affirmative duty for any person providing access or connection to or from an
electronic method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s
control to block the receipt or transmission through its service of any
information that it believes is or will be sent in violation of division (C) of
this section except as otherwise provided by law.
         (c)   Division (C)(6)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of division (C) of this section or who
knowingly advertises the availability of material of that nature.
(R.C. § 2903.211)
Cross-reference:
   Violation of protection orders, see §
135.23
Statutory reference:
   Authority of corporations to seek protection orders in certain
circumstances, see R.C. § 2903.215
   Conditions of bail for violators, see R.C. § 2903.212
   Persons who may seek relief under anti-stalking protection order; ex parte
orders, see R.C. § 2903.214
   Protection order as pretrial condition of release, see R.C. § 2903.213
§ 135.07 UNLAWFUL RESTRAINT.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly restrain
another of the other person’s liberty.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so and with a sexual motivation,
shall knowingly restrain another of the other person’s liberty.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful restraint, a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, SEXUAL MOTIVATION has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2971.01.
(R.C. § 2905.03)
§ 135.08 (RESERVED)
   Editor’s note: This section was formerly based on R.C. § 2905.05, Criminal
Child Enticement. The Ohio Supreme Court held that R.C. § 2905.05(A) was
unconstitutionally overbroad in violation of the First Amendment. See State v.
Romage, 138 Ohio St. 3d. 390 (2014).
§ 135.09 COERCION.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to coerce another into taking or refraining
from action concerning which the other person has a legal freedom of choice,
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Threaten to commit any offense.
      (2)   Utter or threaten any slander against any person.
      (3)   Expose or threaten to expose any matter tending to subject any
person to hatred, contempt, or ridicule, or to damage any person’s personal or
business repute, or to impair any person’s credit.
      (4)   Institute or threaten criminal proceedings against any person.
      (5)   Take or withhold, or threaten to take or withhold official action,
or cause or threaten to cause official action to be taken or withheld.
   (B)   Divisions (A)(4) and (A)(5) of this section shall not be construed to
prohibit a prosecutor or court from doing any of the following in good faith
and in the interests of justice:
      (1)   Offering or agreeing to grant, or granting immunity from
prosecution pursuant to R.C. § 2945.44.
      (2)   In return for a plea of guilty to one or more offenses charged or
to one or more other or lesser offenses, or in return for the testimony of the
accused in a case to which the accused is not a party, offering or agreeing to
dismiss, or dismissing one or more charges pending against an accused, or
offering or agreeing to impose, or imposing a certain sentence or modification
of sentence.
      (3)   Imposing a community control sanction on certain conditions,
including without limitation requiring the offender to make restitution or
redress to the victim of the offense.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3), (A)
(4), or (A)(5) of this section that the actor’s conduct was a reasonable
response to the circumstances which occasioned it, and that the actor’s purpose
was limited to any of the following:
      (1)   Compelling another to refrain from misconduct or to desist from
further misconduct.
      (2)   Preventing or redressing a wrong or injustice.
      (3)   Preventing another from taking action for which the actor
reasonably believed the other person to be disqualified.
      (4)   Compelling another to take action which the actor reasonably
believed the other person to be under a duty to take.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of coercion, a misdemeanor of
the second degree.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      COMMUNITY CONTROL SANCTION has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      THREAT includes a direct threat and a threat by innuendo.
(R.C. § 2905.12)
§ 135.10 BIGAMY.
   (A)   No married person shall marry another or continue to cohabit with such
other person in this municipality.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
actor’s spouse was continuously absent for five years immediately preceding the
purported subsequent marriage, and was not known by the actor to be alive
within that time.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of bigamy, a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
(R.C. § 2919.01)
§ 135.11 UNLAWFUL ABORTION; FAILURE TO PERFORM VIABILITY TESTING.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ABORTION. Means the purposeful termination of a human pregnancy by any
person, including the pregnant woman herself, with an intention other than to
produce a live birth or to remove a dead fetus or embryo.
(R.C. § 2919.11)
      EMANCIPATED. A minor shall be considered emancipated if the minor has
married, entered the armed services of the United States, become employed and
self-subsisting, or has otherwise become independent from the care and control
of her parent, guardian or custodian.
      UNEMANCIPATED. Means a woman who is unmarried and under 18 years of age
who has not entered the armed services of the United States, has not become
employed and self-subsisting, or has not otherwise become independent from the
care and control of her parent, guardian, or custodian.
   (B)   No person shall perform or induce an abortion without the informed
consent of the pregnant woman.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly perform or induce an abortion upon a
pregnant minor unless one of the following is the case:
      (1)   The attending physician has secured the informed written consent of
the minor and one parent, guardian or custodian;
      (2)   The minor is emancipated and the attending physician has received
her informed written consent;
      (3)   The minor has been authorized to consent to the abortion by a court
order issued pursuant to R.C. § 2919.121(C) and the attending physician has
received her informed written consent; or
      (4)    The court has given its consent in accordance with R.C. § 2919.121
(C) and the minor is having the abortion willingly.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly perform or induce an abortion upon a woman
who is pregnant, unmarried, under 18 years of age, and unemancipated unless at
least one of the circumstances enumerated in R.C. § 2919.12(B) applies.
   (E)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (D) of
this section that the pregnant woman provided the person who performed or
induced the abortion with false, misleading, or incorrect information about her
age, marital status, or emancipation, about the age of the brother or sister to
whom she requested notice to be given as a specified relative instead of one of
her parents, her guardian, or her custodian, or about the last known address of
either of her parents, her guardian, her custodian, or a specified brother,
sister, stepparent, or grandparent to whom she requested notice be given and
the person who performed or induced the abortion did not otherwise have
reasonable cause to believe the pregnant woman was under 18 years of age,
unmarried, or unemancipated, to believe that the age of the brother or sister
to whom she requested notice be given as a specified relative instead of one of
her parents, her guardian, or her custodian was not 21 years of age, or to
believe that the last known address of either of her parents, her guardian, her
custodian, or a specified brother, sister, stepparent, or grandparent to whom
she requested notice be given was incorrect.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that
compliance with the requirements of this section was not possible because an
immediate threat of serious risk to the life or physical health of the pregnant
woman or pregnant minor from the continuation of her pregnancy created an
emergency necessitating the immediate performance or inducement of an abortion.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful abortion. A
violation of division (B), (C) or (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree on the first offense and a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is liable to the pregnant woman or
pregnant minor, and her parents, guardian, or custodian for civil, compensatory
and exemplary damages.
(R.C. §§ 2919.12, 2919.121)
   (H)   (1)   Division (C) of this section applies in lieu of division (D) of
this section whenever its operation is not enjoined. If division (C) of this
section is enjoined, division (D) of this section applies.
      (2)   If a person complies with the requirements of division (D) of this
section under the good faith belief that the application or enforcement of
division (C) of this section is subject to a restraining order or injunction,
good faith compliance shall constitute a complete defense to any civil,
criminal or professional disciplinary action brought under division (C) of this
section or R.C. § 2919.121.
      (3)   If a person complies with the requirements of division (C) of this
section under the good faith belief that it is not subject to a restraining
order or injunction, good faith compliance shall constitute a complete defense
to any civil, criminal or professional disciplinary action for failure to
comply with the requirements of division (D) of this section.
(R.C. § 2919.122)
   (I)   Failure to perform viability testing.
      (1)   Except in a medical emergency that prevents compliance with this
division, no physician shall perform or induce or attempt to perform or induce
an abortion on a pregnant woman after the beginning of the twentieth week of
gestation unless, prior to the performance or inducement of the abortion or the
attempt to perform or induce the abortion, the physician determines, in the
physician’s good faith medical judgment, that the unborn child is not viable,
and the physician makes that determination after performing a medical
examination of the pregnant woman and after performing or causing to be
performed those tests for assessing gestational age, weight, lung maturity, or
other tests that the physician, in that physician’s good faith medical
judgment, believes are necessary to determine whether an unborn child is
viable.
      (2)   Except in a medical emergency that prevents compliance with this
division, no physician shall perform or induce or attempt to perform or induce
an abortion on a pregnant woman after the beginning of the twentieth week of
gestation without first entering the determination made in division (I)(1) of
this section and the associated findings of the medical examination and tests
in the medical record of the pregnant woman.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (I) is guilty of failure to perform
viability testing, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (4)   The State Medical Board shall suspend a physician’s license to
practice medicine in this state for a period of not less than six months if the
physician violates this section.
(R.C. § 2919.18)
Statutory reference:
   Judicial bypass, see R.C. § 2151.85
   Judicial consent and the right of a minor to consent, see R.C. § 2919.121(C)
   Notice or consent requirements for unmarried minors, see R.C. § 2919.12(B)
§ 135.12 ABORTION TRAFFICKING.
   (A)   No person shall experiment upon or sell the product of human
conception which is aborted. Experiment does not include autopsies pursuant to
R.C. §§ 313.13 and 2108.50.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of abortion trafficking, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2919.14)
§ 135.13 NONSUPPORT OF DEPENDENTS.
   (A)   No person shall abandon, or fail to provide adequate support to:
      (1)   His or her spouse, as required by law;
      (2)   His or her legitimate or illegitimate child who is under age 18, or
mentally or physically disabled child who is under age 21;
      (3)   His or her aged or infirm parent or adoptive parent, who from lack
of ability and means is unable to provide adequately for his or her own
support.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall abandon, or fail to provide support as
established by a court order to, another person whom, by court order or decree,
the person:
         (a)   Is legally obligated to support; or
         (b)   Was legally obligated to support, and an amount for support:
            1.   Was due and owing prior to the date the person’s duty to pay
current support terminated; and
            2.   Remains unpaid.
      (2)   The period of limitation under R.C. § 2901.13 applicable to
division (B)(1)(b) of this section shall begin to run on the date the person’s
duty to pay current support terminates.
   (C)   No person shall aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage, or contribute to
a child or a ward of the juvenile court becoming a dependent child, as defined
in R.C. § 2151.04, or a neglected child, as defined in R.C. § 2151.03.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of failure to provide
adequate support under division (A) of this section or a charge of failure to
provide support established by a court order under division (B) of this section
that the accused was unable to provide adequate support or the established
support, but did provide the support that was within his or her ability and
means.
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3) of this
section that the parent abandoned the accused, or failed to support the accused
as required by law, while the accused was under age 18, or was mentally or
physically disabled and under age 21.
   (F)   It is not a defense to a charge under division (B) of this section
that the person whom a court has ordered the accused to support is being
adequately supported by someone other than the accused.
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of nonsupport of dependents, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (A)(2) or (B) of this section
or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or if the
offender has failed to provide support under division (A)(2) or (B) of this
section for a total accumulated period of 26 weeks out of 104 consecutive
weeks, whether or not the 26 weeks were consecutive, then a violation of
division (A)(2) or (B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to a felony violation of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or
(B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the offender is guilty of nonsupport of dependents by reason of
failing to provide support to his or her child as required by a child support
order issued on or after April 15, 1985, pursuant to R.C. § 2151.23, 2151.231,
2151.232, 2151.33, 3105.21, 3109.05, 3111.13, 3113.04, 3113.31, 3115.401, or
former R.C. § 3115.31, the court, in addition to any other sentence imposed,
shall assess all court costs arising out of the charge against the person and
require the person to pay any reasonable attorney’s fees of any adverse party
other than the state, as determined by the court, that arose in relation to the
charge.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
contributing to the nonsupport of dependents, a misdemeanor of the first
degree. Each day of a violation of division (C) of this section is a separate
offense.
(R.C. § 2919.21)
§ 135.14 ENDANGERING CHILDREN.
   (A)   No person, who is the parent, guardian, custodian, person having
custody or control, or person in loco parentis of a child under 18 years of age
or a mentally or physically disabled child under 21 years of age, shall create
a substantial risk to the health or safety of the child by violating a duty of
care, protection, or support. It is not a violation of a duty of care,
protection, or support under this division when the parent, guardian,
custodian, or person having custody or control of a child treats the physical
or mental illness or disability of the child by spiritual means through prayer
alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious body.
   (B)   No person shall do any of the following to a child under 18 years of
age or a mentally or physically disabled child under 21 years of age:
      (1)   Abuse the child.
      (2)   Torture or cruelly abuse the child.
      (3)   Administer corporal punishment or other physical disciplinary
measure, or physically restrain the child in a cruel manner or for a prolonged
period, which punishment, discipline or restraint is excessive under the
circumstances and creates a substantial risk of serious physical harm to the
child.
      (4)   Repeatedly administer unwarranted disciplinary measures to a child
when there is a substantial risk that such conduct, if continued, will
seriously impair or retard the child’s mental health or development.
      (5)   Entice, coerce, permit, encourage, compel, hire, employ, use, or
allow the child to act, model, or in any other way participate in, or be
photographed for, the production, presentation, dissemination, or advertisement
of any material or performance that the offender knows or reasonably should
know is obscene, is sexually oriented matter, or is nudity-oriented matter;
      (6)   Allow the child to be on the same parcel of real property and
within 100 feet of, or, in the case of more than one housing unit on the same
parcel of real property, in the same housing unit and within 100 feet of, any
act in violation of R.C. § 2925.04 or 2925.041 when the person knows that the
act is occurring, whether or not any person is prosecuted for or convicted of
the violation of R.C. § 2925.04 or 2925.041 that is the basis of the violation
of this division.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle, as defined by R.C. § 4511.01,
within the municipality and in violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, when one or more children under
18 years of age are in the vehicle. Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
a person may be convicted at the same trial or proceeding of a violation of
this division and a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that constitutes the basis of the charge of the
violation of this division. For purposes of R.C. §§ 4511.191 through 4511.197
and all related provisions of law, a person arrested for a violation of this
division shall be considered to be under arrest for operating a vehicle while
under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them or
for operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a
controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
      (2)   As used in division (C)(1) of this section:
         CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
         VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   (D)   (1)   Division (B)(5) of this section does not apply to any material
or performance that is produced, presented, or disseminated for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, religious, governmental, judicial, or other
proper purpose, by or to a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist,
teacher, person pursuing bona fide studies for research, librarian, member of
the clergy, prosecutor, judge, or other person having a proper interest in the
material or performance.
      (2)   Mistake of age is not a defense to a charge under division (B)(5)
of this section.
      (3)   In a prosecution under division (B)(5) of this section, the trier
of fact may infer that an actor, model, or participant in the material or
performance involved is a juvenile if the material or performance, through its
title, text, visual representation, or otherwise, represents or depicts the
actor, model, or participant as a juvenile.
      (4)   As used in this division and division (B)(5) of this section:
         MATERIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         NUDITY-ORIENTED MATTER means any material or performance that shows a
minor in a state of nudity and that, taken as a whole by the average person
applying contemporary community standards, appeals to the prurient interest.
         OBSCENE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         PERFORMANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         SEXUALLY ORIENTED MATTER. Means any material or performance that shows
a minor participating or engaging in sexual activity, masturbation, or
bestiality.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of endangering children.
      (1)   If the offender violates division (A) or (B)(1) of this section,
endangering children is one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(1)(b), (E)(1)(c) or
(E)(1)(d), a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of an offense
under this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, or of any offense involving neglect, abandonment, or contributing to
the delinquency of or physical abuse of a child, except as otherwise provided
in division (E)(1)(c) or (E)(1)(d) of this section, endangering children is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation is a violation of division (A) of this section
and results in serious physical harm to the child involved, endangering
children is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (d)   If the violation is a violation of division (B)(1) of this
section and results in serious physical harm to the child involved, endangering
children is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the offender violates division (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(5) or
(B)(6) of this section, endangering children is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the offender violates division (C) of this section, the offender
shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   Except as provided in (E)(3)(b) or (E)(3)(c), endangering
children in violation of division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
         (b)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the child
or if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this section
or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any
offense involving neglect, abandonment, or contributing to the delinquency of
or physical abuse of a child, except as otherwise provided in division (E)(3)
(c) of this section, endangering children in violation of division (C) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the child
and if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this
section, R.C. § 2903.06, 2903.08, 2919.22(C) or former R.C. § 2903.07 as it
existed prior to March 23, 2000, or R.C. § 2903.04, in a case in which the
offender was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that
section, endangering children in violation of division (C) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (d)   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine, or other
sentence, penalty or sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to
divisions (E)(3)(a), (E)(3)(b) or (E)(3)(c) of this section or pursuant to any
other provision of law, and in addition to any suspension of the offender’s
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege under R.C. Chapter 4506, 4509, 4510, or 4511, or any other
provision of law, the court also may impose upon the offender a class seven
suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(7).
         (e)   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine, or other
sentence, penalty or sanction imposed upon the offender pursuant to division
(E)(3)(a), (E)(3)(b), (E)(3)(c) or (E)(3)(d) of this section or pursuant to any
other provision of law for the violation of division (C) of this section, if as
a part of the same trial or proceeding the offender also is convicted of or
pleads guilty to a separate charge charging the violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A),
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the
charge of the violation of division (C) of this section, the offender also
shall be sentenced in accordance with R.C. § 4511.19, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, for that violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (F)   (1)   If a person violates division (C) of this section and if, at the
time of the violation, there were two or more children under 18 years of age in
the motor vehicle involved in the violation, the offender may be convicted of a
violation of division (C) of this section for each of the children, but the
court may sentence the offender for only one of the violations.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation
of division (C) of this section but the person is not also convicted of and
does not also plead guilty to a separate charge of violating R.C. § 4511.19(A),
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the
charge of the violation of division (C) of this section, both the following
apply:
            1.   For purposes of the provisions of R.C. § 4511.19, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that set forth the penalties and
sanctions for a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the conviction of or plea of guilty to the violation of
division (C) of this section shall not constitute a violation of R.C. § 4511.19
(A), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
            2.   For purposes of the provisions of law that refers to a
conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and that is not described in
division (F)(2)(a)1. of this section, the conviction of or plea of guilty to
the violation of division (C) of this section shall constitute a conviction or
plea of guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
         (b)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (C) of this section and the person also is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a separate charge of violating R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the charge of the
violation of division (C) of this section, the conviction of or plea of guilty
to the violation of division (C) of this section shall not constitute, for the
purposes of any provision of law that refers to a conviction of or a plea of
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, a conviction of or a plea of guilty to a violation of R.C.
§ 4511.19(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 2919.22(A) - (E), (H))
Statutory reference:
   Community service, requirements, see R.C. § 2919.22(F)
   License suspension, requirements, see R.C. § 2919.22(G)
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
§ 135.15 INTERFERENCE WITH CUSTODY; INTERFERENCE WITH SUPPORT ORDERS.
   (A)   Interference with custody.
      (1)   No person, knowing that he or she is without privilege to do so or
being reckless in that regard, shall entice, take, keep, or harbor a person
identified in division (A)(1)(a), (A)(1)(b) or (A)(1)(c) of this section from
the parent, guardian, or custodian of the person identified in division (A)(1)
(a), (A)(1)(b) or (A)(1)(c) of this section:
         (a)   A child under the age of 18, or a mentally or physically
disabled child under the age of 21;
         (b)   A person committed by law to an institution for delinquent,
unruly, neglected, abused, or dependent children;
         (c)   A person committed by law to an institution for the mentally ill
or an institution for persons with intellectual disabilities.
      (2)   No person shall aid, abet, induce, cause, or encourage a child or a
ward of the juvenile court who has been committed to the custody of any person,
department, or public or private institution to leave the custody of that
person, department, or institution without legal consent.
      (3)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of enticing or taking
under division (A)(1)(a) of this section that the actor reasonably believed
that his or her conduct was necessary to preserve the child’s health or safety.
It is an affirmative defense to a charge of keeping or harboring under division
(A)(1) of this section that the actor in good faith gave notice to law
enforcement or judicial authorities within a reasonable time after the child or
committed person came under his or her shelter, protection, or influence.
      (4)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference with
custody.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this subdivision, a violation of
division (A)(1)(a) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the child who
is the subject of a violation of division (A)(1)(a) is removed from the state
or if the offender previously has been convicted of an offense under this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. If the child who is the subject of a violation of
division (A)(1)(a) suffers physical harm as a result of the violation, a
violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
         (b)   A violation of division (A)(1)(b) or (A)(1)(c) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         (c)   A violation of division (A)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. Each day of a violation of division (A)(2) is a separate
offense.
(R.C. § 2919.23)
   (B)   Interference with support orders.
      (1)   No person, by using physical harassment or threats of violence
against another person, shall interfere with the other person’s initiation or
continuance of, or attempt to prevent the other person from initiating or
continuing, an action to issue or modify a support order under R.C. Chapter
3115, or under R.C. § 2151.23, 2151.231, 2151.232, 2151.33, 2151.36, 2151.361,
2151.49, 3105.18, 3105.21, 3109.05, 3109.19, 3111.13, 3113.04, 3113.07, or
3113.31.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of interfering with an
action to issue or modify a support order, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
violation of this division (B) or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, or R.C. § 3111.19, interfering with an action to issue or
modify a support order is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
(R.C. § 2919.231)
§ 135.16 DOMESTIC VIOLENCE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm to a
family or household member.
   (B)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to a family or
household member.
   (C)   No person, by threat of force, shall knowingly cause a family or
household member to believe that the offender will cause imminent physical harm
to the family or household member.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of domestic violence,
and the court shall sentence the offender as provided in divisions (D)(2) to
(D)(5) of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3), (D)(4) or (D)(5)
of this section, a violation of division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor
of the fourth degree and a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section is
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(4) of this section, if
the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of domestic
violence, a violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or the United States that is substantially equivalent
to domestic violence, a violation of R.C. § 2903.14, 2909.06, 2909.07, 2911.12,
2911.211, or 2919.22 if the victim of the violation was a family or household
member at the time of the violation, a violation of an existing or former
municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or the United States that
is substantially equivalent to any of those sections if the victim of the
violation was a family or household member at the time of the commission of the
violation, or any offense of violence if the victim of the offense was a family
or household member at the time of the commission of the offense, a violation
of division (A) or (B) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law, and a violation of division (C) is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   If the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted
of two or more offenses of domestic violence or two or more violations or
offenses of the type described in division (D)(3) of this section involving a
person who was a family or household member at the time of the violations or
offenses, a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law, and a violation of division (C) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) or (D)(4) of this
section, if the offender knew that the victim of the violation was pregnant at
the time of the violation, a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law, and a violation of
division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no court or unit
of state or local government shall charge any fee, cost, deposit, or money in
connection with the filing of charges against a person alleging that the person
violated this section or a municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to this
section or in connection with the prosecution of any charges so filed.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
offender:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse as defined below, or a
former spouse of the offender;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the offender, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the offender;
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the offender, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
offender.
         (b)   The natural parent of any child of whom the offender is the
other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
      PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has lived with
the offender in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting
with the offender, or who otherwise has cohabited with the offender within five
years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in question.
(R.C. § 2919.25)
Cross-reference:
   Violation of protection orders, see §
135.23
Statutory reference:
   Temporary protection orders, see R.C. § 2919.26
   Violation of protection order or consent agreement, factors to consider,
bail, see R.C. § 2919.251
§ 135.17 HAZING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      HAZING. Means doing any act or coercing another, including the victim, to
do any act of initiation into any student or other organization or any act to
continue or reinstate membership in or affiliation with any student or other
organization that causes or creates a substantial risk of causing mental or
physical harm to any person, including coercing another to consume alcohol or a
drug of abuse, as defined in R.C. § 3719.011.
      ORGANIZATION. Includes a national or international organization with
which a fraternity or sorority is affiliated.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall recklessly participate in the hazing of another.
      (2)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post-secondary school or any other educational institution, public or private,
shall recklessly permit the hazing of any person associated with the
organization.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall recklessly participate in the hazing of another
when the hazing includes coerced consumption of alcohol or drugs of abuse
resulting in serious physical harm to the other person.
      (2)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post-secondary school or any other educational institution, public or private,
shall recklessly permit the hazing of any person associated with the
organization when the hazing includes coerced consumption of alcohol or drugs
of abuse resulting in serious physical harm to that person.
   (D)   Whoever violates divisions (B) or (C) of this section is guilty of
hazing. A violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the second degree. A violation of division (C)(1) or (C)(2) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.31)
   (E)   Reckless failure to immediately report knowledge of hazing.
      (1)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post-secondary school or any other public or private educational institution,
who is acting in an official and professional capacity shall recklessly fail to
immediately report the knowledge of hazing to a law enforcement agency in the
county in which the victim of hazing resides or in which the hazing is
occurring or has occurred.
      (2)   A violation of division (E)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree, except that the violation is a misdemeanor of the first
degree if the hazing causes serious physical harm.
(R.C. § 2903.311(B), (C))
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability for hazing, see R.C. § 2307.44
§ 135.18 CONTRIBUTING TO UNRULINESS OR DELINQUENCY OF A CHILD.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      DELINQUENT CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2152.02.
      UNRULY CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.022.
   (B)   No person, including a parent, guardian, or other custodian of a
child, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage, or contribute to a child or a
ward of the juvenile court becoming an unruly child or a delinquent child;
      (2)   Act in a way tending to cause a child or a ward of the juvenile
court to become an unruly child or a delinquent child;
      (3)   Act in a way that contributes to an adjudication of the child as a
delinquent child based on the child’s violation of a court order adjudicating
the child an unruly child for being an habitual truant;
      (4)   If the person is the parent, guardian, or custodian of a child who
has the duties under R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950 to register, register a new
residence address, and periodically verify a residence address, and, if
applicable, to send a notice of intent to reside, and if the child is not
emancipated, as defined in R.C. § 2919.121, fail to ensure that the child
complies with those duties under R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of contributing to the
unruliness or delinquency of a child, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each
day of violation of this section is a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2919.24)
Statutory reference:
   Failure to send child to school, see R.C. § 3321.38
§ 135.19 FAILURE TO PROVIDE FOR FUNCTIONALLY IMPAIRED PERSON.
   (A)   No caretaker shall knowingly fail to provide a functionally impaired
person under his or her care with any treatment, care, goods, or service that
is necessary to maintain the health or safety of the functionally impaired
person when this failure results in physical harm or serious physical harm to
the functionally impaired person.
   (B)   No caretaker shall recklessly fail to provide a functionally impaired
person under his or her care with any treatment, care, goods, or service that
is necessary to maintain the health or safety of the functionally impaired
person when this failure results in serious physical harm to the functionally
impaired person.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
knowingly failing to provide for a functionally impaired person, a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the functionally impaired person under the offender’s
care suffers serious physical harm as a result of the violation of this
section, a violation of division (A) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
recklessly failing to provide for a functionally impaired person, a misdemeanor
of the second degree. If the functionally impaired person under the offender’s
care suffers serious physical harm as a result of the violation of this
section, a violation of division (B) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.16)
   (D)   As used in this section:
      CARETAKER. Means a person who assumes the duty to provide for the care
and protection of a functionally impaired person on a voluntary basis, by
contract, through receipt of payment for care and protection, as a result of a
family relationship, or by order of a court of competent jurisdiction. The term
does not include a person who owns, operates, or administers, or who is an
agent or employee of, a care facility, as defined in R.C. § 2903.33.
      FUNCTIONALLY IMPAIRED PERSON. Means any person who has a physical or
mental impairment that prevents the person from providing for his or her own
care or protection or whose infirmities caused by aging prevent the person from
providing for his or her own care or protection.
(R.C. § 2903.10)
§ 135.20 PATIENT ABUSE OR NEGLECT; PATIENT ENDANGERMENT; EXCEPTIONS; FALSE
STATEMENTS; RETALIATION.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      ABUSE. Means knowingly causing physical harm or recklessly causing
serious physical harm to a person by physical contact with the person or by the
inappropriate use of a physical or chemical restraint, medication or isolation
on the person.
      CARE FACILITY. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any “home” as defined in R.C. § 3721.10.
         (b)   Any “residential facility” as defined in R.C. § 5119.34 or
5123.19.
         (c)   Any institution or facility operated or provided by the
Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services or by the Department of
Developmental Disabilities pursuant to R.C. §§ 5119.14 and 5123.03.
         (d)   Any unit of any hospital, as defined in R.C. § 3701.01, that
provided the same services as a nursing home, as defined in R.C. § 3721.01.
         (e)   Any institution, residence or facility that provides, for a
period of more than 24 hours, whether for consideration or not, accommodations
to one individual or two unrelated individuals who are dependent upon the
services of others.
      GROSS NEGLECT. Means knowingly failing to provide a person with any
treatment, care, goods or service that is necessary to maintain the health or
safety of the person when the failure results in serious physical harm to the
person.
      INAPPROPRIATE USE OF A PHYSICAL OR CHEMICAL RESTRAINT, MEDICATION OR
ISOLATION. Means the use of physical or chemical restraint, medication or
isolation as punishment, for staff convenience, excessively, as a substitute
for treatment, or in quantities that preclude habilitation and treatment.
      NEGLECT. Means recklessly failing to provide a person with any treatment,
care, goods or service that is necessary to maintain the health or safety of
the person when the failure results in serious physical harm to the person.
(R.C. § 2903.33)
   (B)   Patient abuse or neglect; spiritual treatment; defense.
      (1)   No person who owns, operates, or administers, or who is an agent or
employee of a care facility shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Commit abuse against a resident or patient of the facility.
         (b)   Commit gross neglect against a resident or patient of the
facility.
         (c)   Commit neglect against a resident or patient of the facility.
      (2)   (a)   A person who relies upon treatment by spiritual means through
prayer alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious
denomination, shall not be considered neglectful under division (B)(1)(c) of
this section for that reason alone.
         (b)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of gross neglect or
neglect under this section that the actor’s conduct was committed in good faith
solely because the actor was ordered to commit the conduct by a person with
supervisory authority over the actor.
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(a) is guilty of patient
abuse, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(b) is guilty of gross patient
neglect, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of, or pleaded guilty to, any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, gross patient
neglect is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(c) is guilty of patient
neglect, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of, or pleaded guilty to, any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, gross patient
neglect is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.34)
   (C)   Patient endangerment; spiritual treatment; defense.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES CARETAKER. Means any developmental
disabilities employee or any person who assumes the duty to provide for the
care and protection of a person with a developmental disability on a voluntary
basis, by contract, through receipt of payment for care and protection, as a
result of a family relationship, or by order of a court of competent
jurisdiction. The phrase includes a person who is an employee of a care
facility and a person who is an employee of an entity under contract with a
provider. The phrase does not include a person who owns, operates, or
administers a care facility or who is an agent of a care facility unless that
person also personally provides care to a person with a developmental
disability.
         DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5123.50.
         DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5123.01.
      (2)   No developmental disabilities caretaker shall create a substantial
risk to the health or safety of a person with a developmental disability. A
developmental disabilities caretaker does not create a substantial risk to the
health or safety of a person with a developmental disability under this
division when the developmental disabilities caretaker treats a physical or
mental illness or defect of the person with a developmental disability by
spiritual means through prayer alone, in accordance with the tenets of a
recognized religious body.
      (3)   No person who owns, operates, or administers a care facility or who
is an agent of a care facility shall condone, or knowingly permit, any conduct
by a developmental disabilities caretaker who is employed by or under the
control of the owner, operator, administrator, or agent that is in violation of
division (C)(2) of this section and that involves a person with a developmental
disability who is under the care of the owner, operator, administrator, or
agent. A person who relies upon treatment by spiritual means through prayer
alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious denomination,
shall not be considered endangered under this division for that reason alone.
      (4)   (a)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(2) or (C)(3) of this section that the actor’s conduct was
committed in good faith solely because the actor was ordered to commit the
conduct by a person to whom one of the following applies:
            1.   The person has supervisory authority over the actor.
            2.   The person has authority over the actor’s conduct pursuant to
a contract for the provision of services.
         (b)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(3) of this section that the person who owns, operates, or
administers a care facility or who is an agent of a care facility and who is
charged with the violation is following the individual service plan for the
involved person with a developmental disability or that the admission,
discharge, and transfer rule set forth in the Ohio Administrative Code is being
followed.
         (c)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(3) of this section that the actor did not have readily available a
means to prevent either the harm to the person with a developmental disability
or the death of such a person and the actor took reasonable steps to summon
aid.
      (5)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(5)(b) or (C)(5)(c) of this
section, whoever violates division (C)(2) or (C)(3) of this section is guilty
of patient endangerment, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of, or pleaded
guilty to, a violation of this section, patient endangerment is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the person
with a developmental disability, patient endangerment is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.341)
   (D)   False statements.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement, or knowingly
swear or affirm the truth of a false statement previously made, alleging a
violation of division (B) of this section when the statement is made with
purpose to incriminate another.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (D) is guilty of filing a false
patient abuse or neglect complaint, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2903.35)
   (E)   Retaliation against person reporting patient abuse or neglect. No care
facility shall discharge or in any manner discriminate or retaliate against any
person solely because such person, in good faith, filed a complaint, affidavit,
or other document alleging a violation of division (B) of this section or a
violation of R.C. § 2903.34.
(R.C. § 2903.36)
Statutory reference:
   License revocation for felony violations, see R.C. § 2903.37
§ 135.21 INTERFERENCE WITH RIGHT OF PERSON TO ENGAGE IN HOUSING TRANSACTIONS
BECAUSE OF RACE, RELIGION, OR THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person, whether or not acting under color of law, shall by force or
threat of force willfully injure, intimidate, or interfere with, or attempt to
injure, intimidate, or interfere with any of the following:
      (1)   Any person because of race, color, religion, sex, familial status,
as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin, military status as defined in
that section, disability as defined in that section, or ancestry and because
that person is or has been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying,
contracting, or negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or
occupation of any housing accommodations, or applying for or participating in
any service, organization, or facility relating to the business of selling or
renting housing accommodations.
      (2)   Any person because that person is or has been doing, or in order to
intimidate that person or any other person or any class of persons from doing
either of the following:
         (a)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, familial status, as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin,
military status as defined in that section, disability as defined in that
section, or ancestry, in any of the activities, services, organizations, or
facilities described in division (A)(1) of this section;
         (b)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
      (3)   Any person because that person is or has been, or in order to
discourage that person or any other person from, lawfully aiding or encouraging
other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, familial status as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin,
military status as defined in that section, disability as defined in that
section, or ancestry, in any of the activities, services, organizations, or
facilities described in division (A)(1) of this section, or participating
lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity
to so participate.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2927.03)
§ 135.22 ETHNIC INTIMIDATION.
   (A)   No person shall violate R.C. § 2903.21, 2903.22, 2909.06, or 2909.07,
or R.C. § 2917.21(A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5), by reason of the race, color,
religion, or national origin of another person or group of persons.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of ethnic intimidation. Ethnic
intimidation is an offense of the next higher degree than the offense the
commission of which is a necessary element of ethnic intimidation. In the case
of an offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree, ethnic intimidation is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.12)
§ 135.23 VIOLATING A PROTECTION ORDER, CONSENT AGREEMENT, ANTI- STALKING
PROTECTION ORDER OR ORDER ISSUED BY A COURT OF ANOTHER STATE.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly violate the terms of any of the following:
      (1)   A protection order issued or consent agreement approved pursuant to
R.C. § 2919.26 or R.C. § 3113.31;
      (2)   A protection order issued pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34, 2903.213 or
2903.214;
      (3)   A protection order issued by a court of another state.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of violating a
protection order.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3) or (B)(4) of this
section, violating a protection order is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   Violating a protection order is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the offender previously has been convicted of, pleaded
guilty to, or been adjudicated a delinquent child for any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of a protection order issued or consent agreement
approved pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34, 2903.213, 2903.214, 2919.26, or 3113.31,
or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance;
         (b)   Two or more violations of R.C. § 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22, or
2911.211, or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or
any combination of those offenses, that involved the same person who is the
subject of the protection order or consent agreement;
         (c)   One or more violations of this section, or any substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance.
      (4)   If the offender violates a protection order or consent agreement
while committing a felony offense, violating a protection order is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   If the protection order violated by the offender was an order
issued pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34 or 2903.214 that required electronic
monitoring of the offender pursuant to that section, the court may require in
addition to any other sentence imposed upon the offender that the offender be
electronically monitored for a period not exceeding five years by a law
enforcement agency designated by the court. If the court requires under this
division that the offender be electronically monitored, unless the court
determines that the offender is indigent, the court shall order that the
offender pay the costs of the installation of the electronic monitoring device
and the cost of monitoring the electronic monitoring device. If the court
determines that the offender is indigent and subject to the maximum amount
allowable and the rules promulgated by the Attorney General under R.C. §
2903.214, the costs of the installation of the electronic monitoring device and
the cost of monitoring the electronic monitoring device may be paid out of
funds from the Reparations Fund created pursuant to R.C. § 2743.191. The total
amount paid from the Reparations Fund created pursuant to R.C. § 2743.191 for
electronic monitoring under R.C. §§ 2151.34, 2903.214 and 2919.27 shall not
exceed $300,000 per year.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3) of this
section that the protection order issued by a court of another state does not
comply with the requirements specified in 18 U.S.C. § 2265(b) for a protection
order that must be accorded full faith and credit by a court of this state or
that it is not entitled to full faith and credit under 18 U.S.C. § 2265(c).
   (D)   In a prosecution for a violation of this section, it is not necessary
for the prosecution to prove that the protection order or consent agreement was
served on the defendant if the prosecution proves that the defendant was shown
the protection order or consent agreement or a copy of either or a judge,
magistrate, or law enforcement officer informed the defendant that a protection
order or consent agreement had been issued, and proves that the defendant
recklessly violated the terms of the order or agreement.
   (E)   As used in this section, PROTECTION ORDER ISSUED BY A COURT OF ANOTHER
STATE means an injunction or another order issued by a criminal court of
another state for the purpose of preventing violent or threatening acts or
harassment against, contact or communication with, or physical proximity to
another person including a temporary order, and means an injunction or order of
that nature issued by a civil court of another state, including a temporary
order and a final order issued in an independent action or as a pendente lite
order in a proceeding for other relief, if the court issued it in response to a
complaint, petition or motion filed by or on behalf of a person seeking
protection. The term does not include an order for support or for custody of a
child issued pursuant to the divorce and child custody laws of another state,
except to the extent that the order for support or for custody of a child is
entitled to full faith and credit under the laws of the United States.
(R.C. § 2919.27)
§ 135.24 ADULTERATION OF FOOD.
   (A)   No person shall do either of the following, knowing or having
reasonable cause to believe that any person may suffer physical harm or be
seriously inconvenienced or annoyed thereby:
      (1)   Place a pin, razor blade, glass, laxative, drug of abuse, or other
harmful or hazardous object or substance in any food or confection.
      (2)   Furnish to any person any food or confection which has been
adulterated in violation of division (A)(1) of this section.
(R.C. § 3716.11)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 3716.99(C))
Statutory reference:
   Adulteration of food generally, see R.C. § 3715.59
§ 135.25 ILLEGAL DISTRIBUTION OF CIGARETTES, OTHER TOBACCO PRODUCTS, OR
ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS; TRANSACTION SCANS.
   (A)   Illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         AGE VERIFICATION. A service provided by an independent third party
(other than a manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers
used to roll cigarettes) that compares information available from a
commercially available database, or aggregate of databases, that regularly are
used by government and businesses for the purpose of age and identity
verification to personal information provided during an internet sale or other
remote method of sale to establish that the purchaser is 21 years of age or
older.
         ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT.
            1.   Subject to division 2. of this definition, an electronic
smoking device, vapor product, or any other product or device that consists of
or contains nicotine that can be ingested into the body by any means,
including, but not limited to, chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, or
inhaling.
            2.   The phrase does not include any of the following:
               a.   Any cigarette or other tobacco product;
               b.   Any product that is a “drug” as that term is defined in 21
U.S.C. § 321(g)(1);
               c.   Any product that is a “device” as that term is defined in
21 U.S.C. § 321(h);
               d.   Any product that is a “combination product” as described in
21 U.S.C. § 353(g).
         CIGARETTE. Includes clove cigarettes and hand-rolled cigarettes.
         DISTRIBUTE. Means to furnish, give, or provide cigarettes, other
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes to the ultimate consumer of the cigarettes, other tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes.
         ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE. Means any device that can be used to
deliver aerosolized or vaporized nicotine or any other substance to the person
inhaling from the device including an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic hookah, vaping pen, or electronic pipe. The phrase includes any
component, part, or accessory of such a device, whether or not sold separately,
and includes any substance intended to be aerosolized or vaporized during the
use of the device. The phrase does not include any product that is a drug,
device, or combination product, as those terms are defined or described in 21
U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353(g).
         PROOF OF AGE. Means a driver’s license, a commercial driver’s license,
a military identification card, a passport, or an identification card issued
under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52 that shows that a person is 18 years of age or
older.
         TOBACCO PRODUCT. Means any product that is made or derived from
tobacco or that contains any form of nicotine, if it is intended for human
consumption or is likely to be consumed, whether smoked, heated, chewed,
absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, or ingested by any other means, including, but
not limited to, a cigarette, an electronic smoking device, a cigar, pipe
tobacco, chewing tobacco, snuff, or snus. The phrase also means any component
or accessory used in the consumption of a tobacco product, such as filters,
rolling papers, pipes, blunt or hemp wraps, and liquids used in electronic
smoking devices, whether or not they contain nicotine. The phrase does not
include any product that is a drug, device, or combination product, as those
terms are defined or described in 21 U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353(g).
         VAPOR PRODUCT. Means a product, other than a cigarette or other
tobacco product as defined in R.C. Chapter 5743, that contains or is made or
derived from nicotine and that is intended and marketed for human consumption,
including by smoking, inhaling, snorting, or sniffing. The phrase includes any
component, part, or additive that is intended for use in an electronic smoking
device, a mechanical heating element, battery, or electronic circuit and is
used to deliver the product. The phrase does not include any product that is a
drug, device, or combination product, as those terms are defined or described
in 21 U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353(g). The phrase includes any product containing
nicotine, regardless of concentration.
         VENDING MACHINE. Has the same meaning as “coin machine” in R.C. §
2913.01.
      (2)   No manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers
used to roll cigarettes, no agent, employee, or representative of a
manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of cigarettes,
other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes, and no other person shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Give, sell, or otherwise distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes to
any person under 21 years of age;
         (b)   Give away, sell, or distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes in
any place that does not have posted in a conspicuous place a legibly printed
sign in letters at least one-half inch high stating that giving, selling, or
otherwise distributing cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or papers used to roll cigarettes to a person under 21 years of age
is prohibited by law;
         (c)   Knowingly furnish any false information regarding the name, age,
or other identification of any person under 21 years of age with purpose to
obtain cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or
papers used to roll cigarettes for that person;
         (d)   Manufacture, sell, or distribute in this state any pack or other
container of cigarettes containing fewer than 20 cigarettes or any package of
roll-your-own tobacco containing less than six- tenths of one ounce of tobacco;
         (e)   Sell cigarettes or alternative nicotine products in a smaller
quantity than that placed in the pack or other container by the manufacturer;
         (f)   Give, sell, or otherwise distribute alternative nicotine
products, papers used to roll cigarettes, or tobacco products other than
cigarettes over the internet or through another remote method without age
verification.
      (3)   No person shall sell or offer to sell cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products by or from a vending machine, except
in the following locations:
         (a)   An area within a factory, business, office, or other place not
open to the general public;
         (b)   An area to which persons under 21 years of age are not generally
permitted access;
         (c)   Any other place not identified in division (A)(3)(a) or (A)(3)
(b) of this section, upon all of the following conditions:
            1.   The vending machine is located within the immediate vicinity,
plain view, and control of the person who owns or operates the place, or an
employee of that person, so that all cigarettes, other tobacco product, and
alternative nicotine product purchases from the vending machine will be readily
observed by the person who owns or operates the place or an employee of that
person. For the purpose of this section, a vending machine located in any
unmonitored area, including an unmonitored coatroom, restroom, hallway, or
outer waiting area, shall not be considered located within the immediate
vicinity, plain view, and control of the person who owns or operates the place,
or an employee of that person.
            2.   The vending machine is inaccessible to the public when the
place is closed.
            3.   A clearly visible notice is posted in the area where the
vending machine is located that states the following in letters that are
legibly printed and at least one-half inch high: “It is illegal for any person
under the age of 21 to purchase tobacco or alternative nicotine products.”
      (4)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under division
(A)(2)(a) of this section:
         (a)   The person under 21 years of age was accompanied by a parent,
spouse who is 21 years of age or older, or legal guardian of the person under
21 years of age.
         (b)   The person who gave, sold, or distributed cigarettes, other
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes to a person under 21 years of age under division (A)(2)(a) of this
section is a parent, spouse who is 21 years of age or older, or legal guardian
of the person under 21 years of age.
      (5)   It is not a violation of division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this
section for a person to give or otherwise distribute to a person under 21 years
of age cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or
papers used to roll cigarettes while the person under 21 years of age is
participating in a research protocol if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The parent, guardian, or legal custodian of the person under 21
years of age has consented in writing to the person under 21 years of age
participating in the research protocol.
         (b)   An institutional human subjects protection review board, or an
equivalent entity, has approved the research protocol.
         (c)   The person under 21 years of age is participating in the
research protocol at the facility or location specified in the research
protocol.
      (6)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(a), (A)(2)(b), (A)(2)(d),
(A)(2)(e), or (A)(2)(f) or (A)(3) of this section is guilty of illegal
distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products. Except as otherwise provided in this division, illegal distribution
of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (A)(2)(a), (A)(2)(b), (A)(2)(d), (A)(2)(e), or (A)
(2)(f) or (A)(3) of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products is a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(c) of this section is guilty of
permitting a person under 21 years of age to use cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products. Except as otherwise provided in
this division, permitting a person under 21 years of age to use cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation
of division (A)(2)(c) of this section or a substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, permitting a person under 21 years of age to use
cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (7)   Any cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or papers used to roll cigarettes that are given, sold, or otherwise
distributed to a person under 21 years of age in violation of this section and
that are used, possessed, purchased, or received by a person under 21 years of
age in violation of R.C. § 2151.87 are subject to seizure and forfeiture as
contraband under R.C. Chapter 2981.
(R.C. § 2927.02)
   (B)   Transaction scan.
      (1)   As used in this division and division (C) of this section:
         CARD HOLDER. Means any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a seller, or an agent or employee
of a seller, to purchase or receive cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products from a seller, agent, or employee.
         IDENTIFICATION CARD. Means an identification card issued under R.C. §§
4507.50 through 4507.52.
         SELLER. Means a seller of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products and includes any person whose gift of or other
distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products is subject to the prohibitions of division (A) of this section.
         TRANSACTION SCAN. Means the process by which a seller or an agent or
employee of a seller checks, by means of a transaction scan device, the
validity of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card
that is presented as a condition for purchasing or receiving cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products.
         TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Means any commercial device or combination of
devices used at a point of sale that is capable of deciphering in an
electronically readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or
bar code of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification
card.
      (2)   (a)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may perform a
transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the validity of
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a
card holder as a condition for selling, giving away, or otherwise distributing
to the card holder cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products.
         (b)   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (B)(2)(a) of this section fails to match the information printed
on the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information
so printed is false or fraudulent, neither the seller nor any agent or employee
of the seller shall sell, give away, or otherwise distribute any cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products to the card holder.
         (c)   Division (B)(2)(a) of this section does not preclude a seller or
an agent or employee of a seller from using a transaction scan device to check
the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or identification card, if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip
that may be scanned by the device, as a condition for selling, giving away, or
otherwise distributing cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative
nicotine products to the person presenting the document.
      (3)   Rules adopted by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. §
4301.61(C) apply to the use of transaction scan devices for purposes of this
division (B) and division (C) of this section.
      (4)   (a)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except for the following:
            1.   The name and date of birth of the person listed on the
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the
card holder;
            2.   The expiration date and identification number of the driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the card
holder.
         (b)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use the
information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to be
recorded and maintained under division (B)(4)(a) of this section, except for
purposes of division (C) of this section.
         (c)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use a
transaction scan device for a purpose other than the purpose specified in
division (C)(2)(a) of this section.
         (d)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall sell or
otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising, or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by division (C) of this section
or another section of this code or the Ohio Revised Code.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (B) or division (C) of this section
relieves a seller or an agent or employee of a seller of any responsibility to
comply with any other applicable local, state or federal laws or rules
governing the sale, giving away, or other distribution of cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (B)(2)(b) or (B)(4) of this section is
guilty of engaging in an illegal tobacco product or alternative nicotine
product transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender a civil
penalty of up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the Court shall pay
each collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into the
County Treasury.
(R.C. § 2927.021)
   (C)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may not be found
guilty of a charge of a violation of division (A) of this section in which the
age of the purchaser or other recipient of cigarettes, other tobacco products,
or alternative nicotine products is an element of the alleged violation, if the
seller, agent, or employee raises and proves as an affirmative defense that all
of the following occurred:
         (a)   A card holder attempting to purchase or receive cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products presented a driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or an identification card.
         (b)   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that
the license or card was valid.
         (c)   The cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products were sold, given away, or otherwise distributed to the card holder in
reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and the completed
transaction scan.
      (2)   In determining whether a seller or an agent or employee of a seller
has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (C)(1) of this section,
the trier of fact in the action for the alleged violation of division (A) of
this section shall consider any written policy that the seller has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of division (A) of this
section. For purposes of division (C)(1)(c) of this section, the trier of fact
shall consider that reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan may require a seller or an agent or employee of
a seller to exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a
transaction scan device does not excuse a seller or an agent or employee of a
seller from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
         (a)   Whether a person to whom the seller or agent or employee of a
seller sells, gives away, or otherwise distributes cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products is 21 years of age or older;
         (b)   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
      (3)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by
division (C)(1) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a
deputy registrar who issued an identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50
through 4507.52 shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of
that issuance in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles in the action.
(R.C. § 2927.022)
   (D)   Shipment of tobacco products.
      (1)   As used in this division (D):
         AUTHORIZED RECIPIENT OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS means a person who is:
            1.   Licensed as a cigarette wholesale dealer under R.C. § 5743.15;
            2.   Licensed as a retail dealer as long as the person purchases
cigarettes with the appropriate tax stamp affixed;
            3.   An export warehouse proprietor as defined in Section 5702 of
the Internal Revenue Code;
            4.   An operator of a customs bonded warehouse under 19 U.S.C. §
1311 or 19 U.S.C. § 1555;
            5.   An officer, employee, or agent of the federal government or of
this state acting in the person’s official capacity;
            6.   A department, agency, instrumentality, or political
subdivision of the federal government or of this state;
            7.   A person having a consent for consumer shipment issued by the
Tax Commissioner under R.C. § 5743.71.
         MOTOR CARRIER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4923.01.
      (2)   The purpose of this division (D) is to prevent the sale of
cigarettes to minors and to ensure compliance with the Master Settlement
Agreement, as defined in R.C. § 1346.01.
      (3)   (a)   No person shall cause to be shipped any cigarettes to any
person in this municipality other than an authorized recipient of tobacco
products.
         (b)   No motor carrier or other person shall knowingly transport
cigarettes to any person in this municipality that the carrier or other person
reasonably believes is not an authorized recipient of tobacco products. If
cigarettes are transported to a home or residence, it shall be presumed that
the motor carrier or other person knew that the person to whom the cigarettes
were delivered was not an authorized recipient of tobacco products.
      (4)   No person engaged in the business of selling cigarettes who ships
or causes to be shipped cigarettes to any person in this municipality in any
container or wrapping other than the original container or wrapping of the
cigarettes shall fail to plainly and visibly mark the exterior of the container
or wrapping in which the cigarettes are shipped with the words “cigarettes”.
      (5)   A court shall impose a fine of up to $1,000 for each violation of
division (D)(3)(a), (D)(3)(b) or (D)(4) of this section.
(R.C. § 2927.023)
   (E)   Furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products.
      (1)   No person who is 18 years of age or older but younger than 21 years
of age shall knowingly furnish false information concerning that person’s name,
age, or other identification for the purpose of obtaining tobacco products.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (E)(1) of this section is guilty of
furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, furnishing false information to obtain tobacco
products is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E)(1) of this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
(R.C. § 2927.024)
§ 135.26 NONSMOKING AREAS IN PLACES OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY.
   (A)   As used in this section, PLACE OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY means:
      (1)   Enclosed theaters, except the lobby; opera houses; auditoriums;
classrooms; elevators; rooms in which persons are confined as a matter of
health care, including but not limited to a hospital room and a room in a
residential care facility serving as the residence of a person living in such
residential care facility.
      (2)   All buildings and other enclosed structures owned by the state, its
agencies, or political subdivisions, including but not limited to hospitals and
state institutions for the mentally ill and persons with intellectual
disabilities; university and college buildings, except rooms within those
buildings used primarily as the residences of students or other persons
affiliated with the university or college; office buildings; libraries;
museums; and vehicles used in public transportation. That portion of a building
or other enclosed structure that is owned by the state, a state agency, or a
political subdivision, and that is used primarily as a food service
establishment, is not a place of public assembly.
      (3)   Each portion of a building or enclosed structure that is not
included in division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is a place of public
assembly if it has a seating capacity of 50 or more persons and is available to
the public. Restaurants, food service establishments, dining rooms, cafes,
cafeterias, or other rooms used primarily for the service of food, as well as
bowling alleys and places licensed by the Ohio Division of Liquor Control to
sell intoxicating beverages for consumption on the premises, are not places of
public assembly.
   (B)   For the purpose of separating persons who smoke from persons who do
not smoke for the comfort and health of persons not smoking, in every place of
public assembly there shall be an area where smoking is not permitted, which
shall be designated a no smoking area, provided that not more than one-half of
the rooms in any health care facility in which persons are confined as a matter
of health care may be designated as smoking areas in their entirety. The
designation shall be made before the place of public assembly is made available
to the public. In places included in division (A)(1) of this section, the local
fire authority having jurisdiction shall designate the no smoking area. In
places included in division (A)(2) of this section that are owned by the state
or its agencies, the Ohio Director of Administrative Services shall designate
the area, and if the place is owned by a political subdivision, its Legislative
Authority shall designate an officer who shall designate the area. In places
included in division (A)(3) of this section, the person having control of the
operations of the place of public assembly shall designate the no smoking area.
In places included in division (A)(2) of this section which are also included
in division (A)(1) of this section, the officer who has authority to designate
the area in places in division (A)(2) of this section shall designate the no
smoking area. A no smoking area may include the entire place of public
assembly. Designations shall be made by the placement of signs that are clearly
visible and that state “no smoking.” No person shall remove signs from areas
designated as no smoking areas.
   (C)   This section does not affect or modify the prohibition contained in
R.C. § 3313.751(B).
   (D)   No person shall smoke in any area designated as a no smoking area in
accordance with division (B) of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3791.031)
§ 135.27 SPREADING CONTAGION.
   (A)   No person, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that he or
she is suffering from a dangerous, contagious disease, shall knowingly fail to
take reasonable measures to prevent exposing himself or herself to other
persons, except when seeking medical aid.
   (B)   No person, having charge or care of a person whom he or she knows or
has reasonable cause to believe is suffering from a dangerous, contagious
disease, shall recklessly fail to take reasonable measures to protect others
from exposure to the contagion, and to inform health authorities of the
existence of the contagion.
   (C)   No person, having charge of a public conveyance or place of public
accommodation, amusement, resort, or trade, and knowing or having reasonable
cause to believe that persons using such conveyance or place have been or are
being exposed to a dangerous, contagious disease, shall negligently fail to
take reasonable measures to protect the public from exposure to the contagion,
and to inform health authorities of the existence of the contagion.
(R.C. § 3701.81)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second
degree.
(R.C. § 3701.99(C))
Statutory reference:
   Contagion and quarantine, see R.C. §§ 3707.04 et seq.
   Power to prevent contagious diseases, see R.C. § 715.37
§ 135.28 ABUSE OF A CORPSE.
   (A)   No person, except as authorized by law, shall treat a human corpse in
a way that he or she knows would outrage reasonable family sensibilities.
   (B)   No person, except as authorized by law, shall treat a human corpse in
a way that would outrage reasonable community sensibilities.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of abuse of a
corpse, a misdemeanor of the second degree. Whoever violates division (B) of
this section is guilty of gross abuse of a corpse, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.01)
§ 135.29 UNLAWFUL COLLECTION OF BODILY SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly collect any blood, urine, tissue, or other
bodily substance of another person without privilege or consent to do so.
   (B)   (1)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
         (a)   The collection of any bodily substance of a person by a law
enforcement officer, or by another person pursuant to the direction or advice
of a law enforcement officer, for purposes of a chemical test or tests of the
substance under R.C. § 1547.111(A)(1) or R.C. § 4511.191(A)(2) to determine the
alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or
combination content of the bodily substance;
         (b)   The collection of any bodily substance of a person by a peace
officer, or by another person pursuant to the direction or advice of a peace
officer, for purposes of a test or tests of the substance as provided in R.C. §
4506.17(A) to determine the person’s alcohol concentration or the presence of
any controlled substance or metabolite of a controlled substance.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section shall not be construed as implying
that the persons identified in divisions (B)(1)(a) and (b) of this section do
not have privilege to collect the bodily substance of another person as
described in those divisions or as limiting the definition of “privilege” set
forth in R.C. § 2901.01.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of unlawful
collection of a bodily substance. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, unlawful collection of a bodily substance is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, unlawful collection of a bodily
substance is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.15)
CHAPTER 136: OFFENSES AGAINST JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
136.01   Definitions
   
136.02   Falsification
   
136.03   Compounding a crime
   
136.04   Failure to report a crime
   
136.05   Failure to aid a law enforcement officer
   
136.06   Obstructing official business
   
136.07   Obstructing justice
   
136.08   Resisting arrest
   
136.09   Having an unlawful interest in a public contract
   
136.10   Soliciting or receiving improper compensation
   
136.11   Dereliction of duty
   
136.12   Interfering with civil rights
   
136.13   Illegal conveyance of prohibited items onto grounds of a detention
facility or other specified governmental facilities
   
136.14   False report of child abuse or neglect
   
136.15   Assaulting police dog or horse, or assistance dog
   
136.16   Disclosure of confidential peace officer information
   
136.17   Intimidation of crime victim or witness
   
136.18   Using sham legal process
   
136.19   Making false allegation of peace officer misconduct
   
136.20   Misuse of 9-1-1 system
   
136.21   Failure to disclose personal information
Cross-reference:
   Failure to comply with order or signal of a police officer, see §
70.02
Statutory reference:
   Escape from detention, see R.C. § 2921.34
   Harassment by inmates by causing or attempting to cause contact with blood,
semen, urine, feces or other bodily substance; knowledge of AIDS, hepatitis or
tuberculosis infection; felony offenses, see R.C. § 2921.38
§ 136.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   CONTRIBUTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   DETENTION. Arrest; confinement in any vehicle subsequent to an arrest;
confinement in any public or private facility for custody of persons charged
with or convicted of crime in this state or another state or under the laws of
the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent child or unruly child
in this state or another state or under the laws of the United States;
hospitalization, institutionalization, or confinement in any public or private
facility that is ordered pursuant to or under the authority of R.C. § 2945.37,
2945.371, 2945.38, 2945.39, 2945.40, 2945.401 or 2945.402; confinement in any
vehicle for transportation to or from any facility of any of those natures;
detention for extradition or deportation; except as provided in this division,
supervision by any employee of any facility of any of those natures that is
incidental to hospitalization, institutionalization, or confinement in the
facility but that occurs outside the facility; supervision by an employee of
the Department of Rehabilitation and Correction of a person on any type of
release from a state correctional institution; or confinement in any vehicle,
airplane, or place while being returned from outside of this state into this
state by a private person or entity pursuant to a contract entered into under
R.C. § 311.29(E) or R.C. § 5149.03(B). For a person confined in a county jail
who participates in a county jail industry program pursuant to R.C. § 5147.30,
the term includes time spent at an assigned work site and going to and from the
work site.
   DETENTION FACILITY. Any public or private place used for the confinement of
a person charged with or convicted of any crime in this state or another state
or under the laws of the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent
child or an unruly child in this state or another state or under the laws of
the United States.
   LEGISLATIVE CAMPAIGN FUND. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   OFFICIAL PROCEEDING. Any proceeding before a legislative, judicial,
administrative, or other governmental agency or official authorized to take
evidence under oath, and includes any proceeding before a referee, hearing
examiner, commissioner, notary, or other person taking testimony or a
deposition in connection with an official proceeding.
   PARTY OFFICIAL. Any person who holds an elective or appointive post in a
political party in the United States or this state, by virtue of which he or
she directs, conducts, or participates in directing or conducting party affairs
at any level of responsibility.
   POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   POLITICAL CONTRIBUTING ENTITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   POLITICAL PARTY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   PROVIDER AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
   PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Any elected or appointed officer, employee, or agent of the
state or any political subdivision thereof, whether in a temporary or permanent
capacity, and includes but is not limited to legislators, judges, and law
enforcement officers. The term does not include an employee, officer, or
governor-appointed member of the board of directors of the nonprofit
corporation formed under R.C. § 187.01.
   PUBLIC SERVANT.
      (1)   Any of the following:
         (a)   Any public official.
         (b)   Any person performing ad hoc a governmental function, including
but not limited to a juror, member of a temporary commission, master,
arbitrator, advisor, or consultant.
         (c)   A person who is a candidate for public office, whether or not he
or she is elected or appointed to the office for which he or she is a
candidate. A person is a candidate for purposes of this division if he or she
has been nominated according to law for election or appointment to public
office, or if he or she has filed a petition or petitions as required by law to
have his or her name placed on the ballot in a primary, general, or special
election, or if he or she campaigns as a write-in candidate in any primary,
general, or special election.
      (2)   The term does not include an employee, officer, or governor-
appointed member of the board of directors of the nonprofit corporation formed
under R.C. § 187.01.
   VALUABLE THING or VALUABLE BENEFIT. Includes but is not limited to a
contribution. This inclusion does not indicate or imply that a contribution was
not included in those terms before September 17, 1986.
(R.C. § 2921.01)
§ 136.02 FALSIFICATION.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement, or knowingly swear
or affirm the truth of a false statement previously made, when any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The statement is made in any official proceeding.
      (2)   The statement is made with purpose to incriminate another.
      (3)   The statement is made with purpose to mislead a public official in
performing his or her official function.
      (4)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the payment of
unemployment compensation; Ohio Works First; prevention, retention and
contingency benefits and services; disability financial assistance; retirement
benefits or health care coverage from a state retirement system; economic
development assistance as defined in R.C. § 9.66; or other benefits
administered by a governmental agency or paid out of a public treasury.
      (5)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the issuance by a
governmental agency of a license, permit, authorization, certificate,
registration, release, or provider agreement.
      (6)   The statement is sworn or affirmed before a notary public or
another person empowered to administer oaths.
      (7)   The statement is in writing on or in connection with a report or
return that is required or authorized by law.
      (8)   The statement is in writing, and is made with purpose to induce
another to extend credit to or employ the offender, or to confer any degree,
diploma, certificate of attainment, award of excellence, or honor on the
offender, or to extend to or bestow upon the offender any other valuable
benefit or distinction, when the person to whom the statement is directed
relies upon it to his or her detriment.
      (9)   The statement is made with purpose to commit or facilitate the
commission of a theft offense.
      (10)   The statement is knowingly made to a probate court in connection
with any action, proceeding, or other matter within its jurisdiction, either
orally or in a written document, including but not limited to an application,
petition, complaint, or other pleading, or an inventory, account, or report.
      (11)   The statement is made on an account, form, record, stamp, label or
other writing that is required by law.
      (12)   The statement is made in connection with the purchase of a
firearm, as defined in R.C. § 2923.11, and in conjunction with the furnishing
to the seller of the firearm of a fictitious or altered driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit, a fictitious or altered identification card, or any
other document that contains false information about the purchaser’s identity.
      (13)   The statement is made in a document or instrument of writing that
purports to be a judgment, lien, or claim of indebtedness and is filed or
recorded with the Secretary of State, a county recorder, or the clerk of a
court of record.
      (14)   The statement is made in an application filed with a county
sheriff pursuant to R.C. § 2923.125 in order to obtain or renew a concealed
handgun license or is made in an affidavit submitted to a county sheriff to
obtain a concealed handgun license on a temporary emergency basis under R.C. §
2923.1213.
      (15)   The statement is required under R.C. § 5743.71 in connection with
the person’s purchase of cigarettes or tobacco products in a delivery sale.
   (B)   No person, in connection with the purchase of a firearm as defined in
R.C. § 2923.11, shall knowingly furnish to the seller of the firearm a
fictitious or altered driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit, a
fictitious or altered identification card, or any other document that contains
false information about the purchaser’s identity.
   (C)   No person, in an attempt to obtain a concealed handgun license under
R.C. § 2923.125, shall knowingly present to a sheriff a fictitious or altered
document that purports to be certification of the person’s competence in
handling a handgun as described in division (B)(3) of that section.
   (D)   It is no defense to a charge under division (A)(6) of this section
that the oath or affirmation was administered or taken in an irregular manner.
   (E)   If contradictory statements relating to the same fact are made by the
offender within the period of the statute of limitations for falsification, it
is not necessary for the prosecution to prove which statement was false, but
only that one or the other was false.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), (A)
(5), (A)(6), (A)(7), (A)(8), (A)(10), (A)(11), (A)(13) or (A)(15) of this
section is guilty of falsification. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, falsification is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(9) of this section is guilty of
falsification in a theft offense. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, falsification in a theft offense is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the value of the property or services stolen is $1,000 or more,
falsification in a theft offense is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(12) or (B) of this section is guilty
of falsification to purchase a firearm, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (A)(14) or (C) of this section is guilty
of falsification to obtain a concealed handgun license, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section in removal
proceedings under R.C. § 319.26, 321.37, 507.13 or 733.78 is guilty of
falsification regarding a removal proceeding, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.13)
   (G)   (1)   No person who has knowingly failed to maintain proof of
financial responsibility in accordance with R.C. § 4509.101 shall produce any
document or present to a peace officer an electronic wireless communications
device that is displaying any text or images with the purpose to mislead a
peace officer upon the request of a peace officer for proof of financial
responsibility made in accordance with R.C. § 4509.101(D)(2).
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (G) is guilty of falsification, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4509.102)
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability for violations of this section, see R.C. § 2921.13(G)
§ 136.03 COMPOUNDING A CRIME.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly demand, accept, or agree to accept anything
of value in consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon a pending
criminal prosecution.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section when both
of the following apply:
      (1)   The pending prosecution involved is for a violation of R.C. §
2913.02, 2913.11, 2913.21(B)(2), or 2913.47, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, of which the actor under this section was the victim.
      (2)   The thing of value demanded, accepted, or agreed to be accepted, in
consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon the prosecution, did not
exceed an amount that the actor reasonably believed due him or her as
restitution for the loss caused him or her by the offense.
   (C)   When a prosecuting witness abandons or agrees to abandon a prosecution
under division (B) of this section, the abandonment or agreement in no way
binds the state to abandoning the prosecution.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of compounding a crime, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.21)
§ 136.04 FAILURE TO REPORT A CRIME.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, no
person, knowing that a felony has been or is being committed, shall knowingly
fail to report the information to law enforcement authorities.
      (2)   No person, knowing that a violation of R.C. § 2913.04(B) has been
or is being committed or that the person has received information derived from
such a violation, shall knowingly fail to report the violation to law
enforcement authorities.
   (B)   Except for conditions that are within the scope of division (E) of
this section, no person giving aid to a sick or injured person shall
negligently fail to report to law enforcement authorities any gunshot or stab
wound treated or observed by the person, or any serious physical harm to
persons that the person knows or has reasonable cause to believe resulted from
an offense of violence.
   (C)   No person who discovers the body or acquires the first knowledge of
the death of a person shall fail to report the death immediately to a physician
or advanced practice registered nurse whom the person knows to be treating the
deceased for a condition from which death at such time would not be unexpected,
or to a law enforcement officer, an ambulance service, an emergency squad, or
the coroner in a political subdivision in which the body is discovered, the
death is believed to have occurred, or knowledge concerning the death is
obtained. For purposes of this division, “advanced practice registered nurse”
does not include a certified registered nurse anesthetist.
   (D)   No person shall fail to provide upon request of the person to whom a
report required by division (C) of this section was made, or to any law
enforcement officer who has reasonable cause to assert the authority to
investigate the circumstances surrounding the death, any facts within his or
her knowledge that may have a bearing on the investigation of the death.
   (E)   (1)   As used in this section, BURN INJURY means any of the following:
         (a)   Second or third degree burns;
         (b)   Any burns to the upper respiratory tract or laryngeal edema due
to the inhalation of super-heated air;
         (c)   Any burn injury or wound that may result in death;
         (d)   Any physical harm to persons caused by or as the result of the
use of fireworks, novelties and trick noisemakers, and wire sparklers, as each
is defined by R.C. § 3743.01.
      (2)   No physician, nurse, physician assistant, or limited practitioner
who, outside a hospital, sanitarium, or other medical facility, attends or
treats a person who has sustained a burn injury inflicted by an explosion or
other incendiary device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a
violent, malicious, or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury
immediately to the local arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the
jurisdiction in which the person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local
law enforcement authorities.
      (3)   No manager, superintendent, or other person in charge of a
hospital, sanitarium, or other medical facility in which a person is attended
or treated for any burn injury inflicted by an explosion or other incendiary
device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a violent,
malicious, or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury immediately
to the local arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the jurisdiction in
which the person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local law enforcement
authorities.
      (4)   No person who is required to report any burn injury under division
(E)(2) or (E)(3) of this section shall fail to file, within three working days
after attending or treating the victim, a written report of the burn injury
with the office of the State Fire Marshal. The report shall be made on a form
provided by the State Fire Marshal.
      (5)   Anyone participating in the making of reports under division (E) of
this section or anyone participating in a judicial proceeding resulting from
the reports is immune from any civil or criminal liability that otherwise might
be incurred or imposed as a result of such actions. Notwithstanding R.C. §
4731.22, the physician-patient relationship or advanced practice registered
nurse-patient relationship is not a ground for excluding evidence regarding a
person’s burn injury or the cause of the burn injury in any judicial proceeding
resulting from a report submitted under division (E) of this section.
   (F)   (1)   Any doctor of medicine or osteopathic medicine, hospital intern
or resident, nurse, psychologist, social worker, independent social worker,
social work assistant, licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed
professional counselor, independent marriage and family therapist, or marriage
and family therapist who knows or has reasonable cause to believe that a
patient or client has been the victim of domestic violence, as defined in R.C.
§ 3113.31, shall note that knowledge or belief and the basis for it in the
patient’s or client’s records.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 4731.22, the physician-patient privilege or
advanced practice registered nurse-patient privilege shall not be a ground for
excluding any information regarding the report containing the knowledge or
belief noted under division (F)(1) of this section, and the information may be
admitted as evidence in accordance with the Rules of Evidence.
   (G)   Division (A) or (D) of this section does not require disclosure of
information, when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The information is privileged by reason of the relationship between
attorney and client; physician and patient; advanced practice registered nurse
and patient; licensed psychologist or licensed school psychologist and client;
licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed professional counselor,
independent social worker, social worker, independent marriage and family
therapist, or marriage and family therapist and client; member of the clergy,
rabbi, minister, or priest and any person communicating information
confidentially to the member of the clergy, rabbi, minister, or priest for a
religious counseling purpose of a professional character; husband and wife; or
a communications assistant and those who are a party to a telecommunications
relay service call.
      (2)   The information would tend to incriminate a member of the actor’s
immediate family.
      (3)   Disclosure of the information would amount to revealing a news
source, privileged under R.C. § 2739.04 or 2739.12.
      (4)   Disclosure of the information would amount to disclosure by a
member of the ordained clergy of an organized religious body of a confidential
communication made to him or her in his or her capacity as such by a person
seeking his or her aid or counsel.
      (5)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of his or her duties in connection with a bona fide program
of treatment or services for drug dependent persons or persons in danger of
drug dependence, which program is maintained or conducted by a hospital,
clinic, person, agency, or community addiction services provider whose alcohol
and drug addiction services are certified pursuant to R.C. § 5119.36.
      (6)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of his or her duties in connection with a bona fide program
for providing counseling services to victims of crimes that are violations of
R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.05, or to victims of felonious sexual penetration in
violation of former R.C. § 2907.12. As used in this division, “counseling
services” include services provided in an informal setting by a person who, by
education or experience, is competent to provide such services.
   (H)   No disclosure of information pursuant to this section gives rise to
any liability or recrimination for a breach of privilege or confidence.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of
failure to report a crime. Violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Violation of division (A)(2) or (B) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (J)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of
failure to report knowledge of a death, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (K)   (1)   Whoever negligently violates division (E) of this section is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Whoever knowingly violates division (E) of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (L)   As used in this section, NURSE includes an advanced practice
registered nurse, registered nurse, and licensed practical nurse.
(R.C. § 2921.22)
§ 136.05 FAILURE TO AID A LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall negligently fail or refuse to aid a law enforcement
officer, when called upon for assistance in preventing or halting the
commission of an offense, or in apprehending or detaining an offender, when the
aid can be given without a substantial risk of physical harm to the person
giving it.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to aid a law
enforcement officer, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2921.23)
§ 136.06 OBSTRUCTING OFFICIAL BUSINESS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so and with purpose to prevent,
obstruct, or delay the performance by a public official of any authorized act
within the public official’s official capacity, shall do any act that hampers
or impedes a public official in the performance of the public official’s lawful
duties.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing official
business. Except as otherwise provided in this division, obstructing official
business is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If a violation of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, obstructing official business is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.31)
§ 136.07 OBSTRUCTING JUSTICE.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to hinder the discovery, apprehension,
prosecution, conviction, or punishment of another for crime, or to assist
another to benefit from the commission of a crime, and no person, with purpose
to hinder the discovery, apprehension, prosecution, adjudication as a
delinquent child, or disposition of a child for an act that if committed by an
adult would be a crime or to assist a child to benefit from the commission of
an act that if committed by an adult would be a crime, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Harbor or conceal the other person or child.
      (2)   Provide the other person or child with money, transportation, a
weapon, a disguise, or other means of avoiding discovery or apprehension.
      (3)   Warn the other person or child of impending discovery or
apprehension.
      (4)   Destroy or conceal physical evidence of the crime or act, or induce
any person to withhold testimony or information or to elude legal process
summoning him or her to testify or supply evidence.
      (5)   Communicate false information to any person.
      (6)   Prevent or obstruct any person, by means of force, intimidation, or
deception, from performing any act to aid in the discovery, apprehension, or
prosecution of the other person or child.
   (B)   A person may be prosecuted for, and may be convicted of or adjudicated
a delinquent child for committing, a violation of division (A) of this section
regardless of whether the person or child aided ultimately is apprehended for,
is charged with, is convicted of, pleads guilty to, or is adjudicated a
delinquent child for committing the crime or act the person or child aided
committed. The crime or act the person or child aided committed shall be used
under division (C) of this section in determining the penalty for violation of
division (A) of this section, regardless of whether the person or child aided
ultimately is apprehended for, is charge with, is convicted of, pleads guilty
to, or is adjudicated a delinquent child for committing the crime or act the
person or child aided committed.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing justice.
      (1)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a misdemeanor or if
the act committed by the child aided would be a misdemeanor if committed by an
adult, obstructing justice is a misdemeanor of the same degree as the crime
committed by the person aided or a misdemeanor of the same degree that the act
committed by the child aided would be if committed by an adult.
      (2)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a felony or if the
act committed by the child aided would be a felony if committed by an adult, or
if the crime or act committed by the person or child aided is an act of
terrorism, obstructing justice is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      ACT OF TERRORISM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.21.
      ADULT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.011.
      CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.011.
      DELINQUENT CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2152.02.
(R.C. § 2921.32)
§ 136.08 RESISTING ARREST.
   (A)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of himself, herself or another.
   (B)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person and, during the course of or as a
result of the resistance or interference, cause physical harm to a law
enforcement officer.
   (C)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person if either of the following
applies:
      (1)   The offender, during the course of or as a result of the resistance
or interference, recklessly causes physical harm to a law enforcement officer
by means of a deadly weapon; or
      (2)   The offender, during the course of the resistance or interference,
brandishes a deadly weapon.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of resisting arrest. A
violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (E)   As used in this section, DEADLY WEAPON has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2923.11.
(R.C. § 2921.33)
Statutory reference:
   Unlawful taking of deadly weapon from a law enforcement officer, felony
offense, see R.C. § 2911.01
§ 136.09 HAVING AN UNLAWFUL INTEREST IN A PUBLIC CONTRACT.
   (A)   No public official shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Authorize or employ the authority of the public official’s office
to secure authorization of any public contract in which the public official, a
member of the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s
business associates has an interest.
      (2)   Authorize or employ the authority or influence of the public
official’s office to secure the investment of public funds in any share, bond,
mortgage, or other security with respect to which the public official, a member
of the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s business
associates either has an interest, is an underwriter, or receives any
brokerage, origination, or servicing fees.
      (3)   During the public official’s term of office or within one year
thereafter, occupy any position of profit in the prosecution of a public
contract authorized by the public official or by a legislative body,
commission, or board of which the public official was a member at the time of
authorization, unless the contract was let by competitive bidding to the lowest
and best bidder.
      (4)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
entered into by or for the use of the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality with which the public official is connected.
      (5)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
that is not let by competitive bidding when required by law, and that involves
more than $150.
   (B)   In the absence of bribery or a purpose to defraud, a public official,
member of a public official’s family, or any of a public official’s business
associates shall not be considered as having an interest in a public contract
or the investment of public funds, if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The interest of that person is limited to owning or controlling
shares of the corporation, or being a creditor of the corporation or other
organization, that is the contractor on the public contract involved, or that
is the issuer of the security in which public funds are invested.
      (2)   The shares owned or controlled by that person do not exceed 5% of
the outstanding shares of the corporation, and the amount due that person as
creditor does not exceed 5% of the total indebtedness of the corporation or
other organization.
      (3)   That person, prior to the time the public contract is entered into,
files with the political subdivision or governmental agency or instrumentality
involved, an affidavit giving that person’s exact status in connection with the
corporation or other organization.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a public contract in which a public
official, member of a public official’s family, or one of a public official’s
business associates has an interest, when all of the following apply:
      (1)   The subject of the public contract is necessary supplies or
services for the political subdivision or governmental agency or
instrumentality involved.
      (2)   The supplies or services are unobtainable elsewhere for the same or
lower cost, or are being furnished to the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality as part of a continuing course of dealing established
prior to the public official’s becoming associated with the political
subdivision or governmental agency or instrumentality involved.
      (3)   The treatment accorded the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality is either preferential to or the same as that
accorded other customers or clients in similar transactions.
      (4)   The entire transaction is conducted at arm’s length, with full
knowledge by the political subdivision or governmental agency or
instrumentality involved, of the interest of the public official, member of the
public official’s family, or business associate, and the public official takes
no part in the deliberations or decision of the political subdivision or
governmental agency or instrumentality with respect to the public contract.
   (D)   Division (A)(4) of this section does not prohibit participation by a
public employee in any housing program funded by public monies if the public
employee otherwise qualifies for the program and does not use the authority or
influence of the public employee’s office or employment to secure benefits from
the program and if the monies are to be used on the primary residence of the
public employee. Such participation does not constitute an unlawful interest in
a public contract in violation of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of having an unlawful interest
in a public contract. Violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. Violation of division
(A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (F)   It is not a violation of this section for a prosecuting attorney to
appoint assistants and employees in accordance with R.C. §§ 309.06 and
2921.421, or for a chief legal officer of a municipality or an official
designated as prosecutor in a municipality to appoint assistants and employees
in accordance with R.C. §§ 733.621 and 2921.421, or for a township law director
appointed under R.C. § 504.15 to appoint assistants and employees in accordance
with R.C. §§ 504.151 and 2921.421.
   (G)   Any public contract in which a public official, a member of the public
official’s family, or any of the public official’s business associates has an
interest in violation of this section is void and unenforceable. Any contract
securing the investment of public funds in which a public official, a member of
the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s business
associates has an interest, is an underwriter, or receives any brokerage,
origination or servicing fees and that was entered into in violation of this
section is void and unenforceable.
   (H)   As used in this section:
      CHIEF LEGAL OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 733.621.
      PUBLIC CONTRACT. Means any of the following:
         (a)   The purchase or acquisition, or a contract for the purchase or
acquisition, of property or services by or for the use of the state or any of
its political subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of either,
including the employment of an individual by the state, any of its political
subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of either.
         (b)   A contract for the design, construction, alteration, repair, or
maintenance of any public property.
(R.C. § 2921.42)
Statutory reference:
   Assistants and employees of Prosecutors, Law Directors, and Solicitors, see
R.C. § 2921.421
§ 136.10 SOLICITING OR RECEIVING IMPROPER COMPENSATION.
   (A)   No public servant shall knowingly solicit or accept and no person
shall knowingly promise or give to a public servant either of the following:
      (1)   Any compensation, other than as allowed by R.C. § 102.03(G), (H),
(I), or other provisions of law, to perform the public servant’s official
duties, to perform any other act or service in the public servant’s public
capacity, for the general performance of the duties of the public servant’s
public office or public employment, or as a supplement to the public servant’s
public compensation.
      (2)   Additional or greater fees or costs than are allowed by law to
perform the public servant’s official duties.
   (B)   No public servant for the public servant’s own personal or business
use and no person for the person’s own personal or business use or for the
personal or business use of a public servant or party official, shall solicit
or accept anything of value in consideration of either of the following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining, or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment, or agency.
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion, or other
material aspects of employment.
   (C)   No person for the benefit of a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee or political contributing
entity shall coerce any contribution in consideration of either of the
following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining, or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment, or agency.
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion, or other
material aspects of employment.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of soliciting improper
compensation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (E)   A public servant who is convicted of a violation of this section is
disqualified from holding any public office, employment, or position of trust
in this state for a period of seven years from the date of conviction.
   (F)   Divisions (A), (B), and (C) of this section do not prohibit any person
from making voluntary contributions to a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee or political contributing
entity or prohibit a political party, campaign committee, legislative campaign
fund, political action committee or political contributing entity from
accepting voluntary contributions.
(R.C. § 2921.43)
§ 136.11 DERELICTION OF DUTY.
   (A)   No law enforcement officer shall negligently do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to serve a lawful warrant without delay.
      (2)   Fail to prevent or halt the commission of an offense or to
apprehend an offender, when it is in the law enforcement officer’s power to do
so alone or with available assistance.
   (B)   No law enforcement, ministerial, or judicial officer shall negligently
fail to perform a lawful duty in a criminal case or proceeding.
   (C)   No officer, having charge of a detention facility, shall negligently
do any of the following:
      (1)   Allow the detention facility to become littered or unsanitary.
      (2)   Fail to provide persons confined in the detention facility with
adequate food, clothing, bedding, shelter, and medical attention.
      (3)   Fail to control an unruly prisoner, or to prevent intimidation of
or physical harm to a prisoner by another.
      (4)   Allow a prisoner to escape.
      (5)   Fail to observe any lawful and reasonable regulation for the
management of the detention facility.
   (D)   No public official shall recklessly create a deficiency, incur a
liability, or expend a greater sum than is appropriated by the Legislative
Authority for the use in any one year of the department, agency, or institution
with which the public official is connected.
   (E)   No public servant shall recklessly fail to perform a duty expressly
imposed by law with respect to the public servant’s office, or recklessly do
any act expressly forbidden by law with respect to the public servant’s office.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of dereliction of duty, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   Except as otherwise provided by law, a public servant who is a county
treasurer; county auditor; township fiscal officer; city auditor; city
treasurer; village fiscal officer; village clerk-treasurer; village clerk; in
the case of a municipal corporation having a charter that designates an officer
who, by virtue of the charter, has duties and functions similar to those of the
city or village officers referred to in this section, the officer so designated
by the charter; school district treasurer; fiscal officer of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314; treasurer of a science, technology,
engineering, and mathematics school established under R.C. Chapter 3326; or
fiscal officer of a college-preparatory boarding school established under R.C.
Chapter 3328 and is convicted of or pleads guilty to dereliction of duty is
disqualified from holding any public office, employment, or position of trust
in this state for four years following the date of conviction or of entry of
the plea, and is not entitled to hold any public office until any repayment or
restitution required by the court is satisfied.
   (H)   As used in this section, PUBLIC SERVANT includes the following:
      (1)   An officer or employee of a contractor as defined in R.C. § 9.08;
      (2)   A fiscal officer employed by the operator of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314 or by the operator of a college-preparatory
boarding school established under R.C. Chapter 3328.
(R.C. § 2921.44)
§ 136.12 INTERFERING WITH CIVIL RIGHTS.
   (A)   No public servant, under color of the public servant's office,
employment, or authority, shall knowingly deprive, or conspire or attempt to
deprive any person of a constitutional or statutory right.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interfering with civil
rights, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.45)
Statutory reference:
   Restraining or confining pregnant children or pregnant women, see R.C. §
2152.75(B) and R.C. § 2901.10
§ 136.13 ILLEGAL CONVEYANCE OF PROHIBITED ITEMS ONTO GROUNDS OF A DETENTION
FACILITY OR OTHER SPECIFIED GOVERNMENTAL FACILITY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly convey, or attempt to convey, onto the
grounds of a detention facility or of an institution, office building, or other
place that is under the control of the Department of Mental Health and
Addiction Services, the Department of Developmental Disabilities, the
Department of Youth Services, or the Department of Rehabilitation and
Correction, any of the following items:
      (1)   Any deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance, as defined in R.C. §
2923.11, or any part of or ammunition for use in such deadly weapon or
dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   Any drug of abuse, as defined in R.C. § 3719.011.
      (3)   Any intoxicating liquor, as defined in R.C. § 4301.01, except for
small amounts of wine for sacramental purposes when the person engaging in the
specified conduct is a cleric, as defined in R.C. § 2317.02.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any person who conveys
or attempts to convey an item onto the grounds of a detention facility or of an
institution, office building, or other place under the control of the
Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services, the Department of
Developmental Disabilities, the Department of Youth Services, or the Department
of Rehabilitation and Correction, with written authorization of the person in
charge of the detention facility or the institution, office building, or other
place and in accordance with the written rules of the detention facility or the
institution, office building, or other place.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly deliver, or attempt to deliver, to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, to a prisoner who is temporarily released from confinement
for a work assignment, or to any patient in an institution under the control of
the Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services or the Department of
Developmental Disabilities, any item listed in division (A).
   (D)   No person shall knowingly deliver or attempt to deliver cash to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, or to a prisoner who is temporarily released from
confinement for a work assignment.
   (E)   No person shall knowingly deliver, or attempt to deliver, to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, or to a prisoner who is temporarily released from
confinement for a work assignment a cellular telephone, two-way radio, or other
electronic communications device.
   (F)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(1)
of this section that the weapon or dangerous ordnance in question was being
transported in a motor vehicle for any lawful purpose, that it was not on the
actor’s person, and if the weapon or dangerous ordnance was a firearm, that it
was unloaded and was being carried in a closed package, box or case or in a
compartment that can be reached only by leaving the vehicle.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (C) of this
section that the actor was not otherwise prohibited by law from delivering the
item to the confined person, the child, the prisoner, or the patient and that
either of the following applies:
         (a)   The actor was permitted by the written rules of the detention
facility or the institution, office building, or other place to deliver the
item to the confined person or the patient.
         (b)   The actor was given written authorization by the person in
charge of the detention facility or the institution, office building, or other
place to deliver the item to the confined person or the patient.
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any item listed in division
(A)(1) of this section is guilty of illegal conveyance of weapons onto the
grounds of a specified governmental facility, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any drug of abuse is guilty
of illegal conveyance of drugs of abuse onto the grounds of a specified
governmental facility, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(3) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any intoxicating liquor is
guilty of illegal conveyance of intoxicating liquor onto the grounds of a
specified governmental facility, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of illegal
conveyance of cash onto the grounds of a detention facility, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (D) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, illegal conveyance of cash onto
the grounds of a detention facility is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of illegal
conveyance of a communications device onto the grounds of a specified
governmental facility, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E)
of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
illegal conveyance of a communications device onto the grounds of a detention
facility is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.36)
   (H)   The person in charge of a detention facility shall, on the grounds of
the detention facility, have the same power as a peace officer, as defined in
R.C. § 2935.01, to arrest a person who violates this section.
(R.C. § 2921.37)
Cross-reference:
   Possession of an object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety
zone, see §
137.11
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, see §
137.12
Statutory reference:
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance on school
premises, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122
   Conveyance, possession, or control of deadly weapon or dangerous ordinance
in a courthouse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.123
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offense, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
§ 136.14 FALSE REPORT OF CHILD ABUSE OR NEGLECT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make or cause another person to make a false
report under R.C. § 2151.421(B) alleging that any person has committed an act
or omission that resulted in a child being an abused child as defined in R.C. §
2151.031 or a neglected child as defined in R.C. § 2151.03.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or causing a false
report of child abuse or child neglect, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.14)
§ 136.15 ASSAULTING POLICE DOG OR HORSE, OR ASSISTANCE DOG.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
a police dog or horse in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The police dog or horse is assisting a law enforcement officer in
the performance of the officer’s official duties at the time the physical harm
is caused or attempted.
      (2)   The police dog or horse is not assisting a law enforcement officer
in the performance of the officer’s official duties at the time the physical
harm is caused or attempted, but the offender has actual knowledge that the dog
or horse is a police dog or horse.
   (B)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment, or strike a police dog or horse;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at a police dog or horse;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct a police dog or horse, or interfere with
or obstruct a law enforcement officer who is being assisted by a police dog or
horse, in a manner that does any of the following:
         (a)   Inhibits or restricts the law enforcement officer’s control of
the police dog or horse;
         (b)   Deprives the law enforcement officer of control of the police
dog or horse;
         (c)   Releases the police dog or horse from its area of control;
         (d)   Enters the area of control of the police dog or horse without
the consent of the law enforcement officer, including placing food or any other
object or substance into that area;
         (e)   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the police dog or horse to
assist a law enforcement officer;
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to a police dog or horse;
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger a police dog or horse that at the time of the conduct is
assisting a law enforcement officer in the performance of the officer’s duties
or that the person knows is a police dog or horse.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
an assistance dog in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The dog is assisting or serving a blind, deaf or hearing impaired,
or mobility impaired person at the time the physical harm is caused or
attempted.
      (2)   The dog is not assisting or serving a blind, deaf or hearing
impaired, or mobility impaired person at the time the physical harm is caused
or attempted, but the offender has actual knowledge that the dog is an
assistance dog.
   (D)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment, or strike an assistance dog;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at an assistance dog;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct an assistance dog, or interfere with or
obstruct a blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility impaired person who is
being assisted or served by an assistance dog, in a manner that does any of the
following:
         (a)   Inhibits or restricts the assisted or served person’s control of
the dog;
         (b)   Deprives the assisted or served person of control of the dog;
         (c)   Releases the dog from its area of control;
         (d)   Enters the area of control of the dog without the consent of the
assisted or served person, including placing food or any other object or
substance into that area;
         (e)   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the dog to assist the
assisted or served person;
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to an assistance dog;
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger an assistance dog that at the time of the conduct is
assisting or serving a blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility impaired
person or that the person knows is an assistance dog.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
assaulting a police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, assaulting a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. If the violation results in physical harm to the police dog or horse
other than death or serious physical harm, assaulting a police dog or horse is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in serious physical
harm to the police dog or horse or results in its death, assaulting a police
dog or horse is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
harassing a police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided this division,
harassing a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the police dog or horse but does not
result in its death or in serious physical harm to it, harassing a police dog
or horse is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in
serous physical harm to the police dog or horse or results in its death,
harassing a police dog or horse is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
assaulting an assistance dog. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
assaulting an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the assistance dog other than death or
serious physical harm, assaulting an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the violation results in serious physical harm to the
assistance dog or results in its death, assaulting an assistance dog is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of
harassing an assistance dog. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
harassing an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the assistance dog but does not result in
the death or in serious physical harm to it, harassing an assistance dog is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in serious physical
harm to the assistance dog or results in its death, harassing an assistance dog
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   In addition to any other sanctions or penalty imposed for the
offense under this section, R.C. Chapter 2929 or any other provision of the
Ohio Revised Code or this code, whoever violates division (A), (B), (C), or (D)
of this section is responsible for the payment of all of the following:
         (a)   Any veterinary bill or bill for medication incurred as a result
of the violation by the Police Department regarding a violation of division (A)
or (B) of this section or by the blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility
impaired person assisted or served by the assistance dog regarding a violation
of division (C) or (D) of this section;
         (b)   The cost of any damaged equipment that results from the
violation;
         (c)   If the violation did not result in the death of the police dog
or horse or the assistance dog that was the subject of the violation and if, as
a result of that dog or horse being the subject of the violation, the dog or
horse needs further training or retraining to be able to continue in the
capacity of a police dog or horse or an assistance dog, the cost of any further
training or retraining of that dog or horse by a law enforcement officer or by
the blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility impaired person assisted or
served by the assistance dog;
         (d)   If the violation resulted in the death of the assistance dog
that was the subject of the violation or resulted in serious physical harm to
the police dog or horse or the assistance dog that was the subject of the
violation to the extent that the dog or horse needs to be replaced on either a
temporary or a permanent basis, the cost of replacing that dog or horse and of
any further training of a new police dog or horse or a new assistance dog by a
law enforcement officer or by the blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility
impaired person assisted or served by the assistance dog, which replacement or
training is required because of the death of or the serious physical harm to
the dog or horse that was the subject of the violation.
   (F)   This section does not apply to a licensed veterinarian whose conduct
is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4741.
   (G)   This section only applies to an offender who knows or should know at
the time of the violation that the police dog or horse or assistance dog that
is the subject of a violation under this section is a police dog or horse or an
assistance dog.
   (H)   As used in this section:
      ASSISTANCE DOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
      BLIND. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
      MOBILITY IMPAIRED PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
      PHYSICAL HARM. Means any injury, illness, or other psychological
impairment, regardless of its gravity or duration.
      POLICE DOG OR HORSE. Means a dog or horse that has been trained and may
be used to assist law enforcement officers in the performance of their official
duties.
      SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death.
         (b)   Any physical harm that causes permanent maiming or that involves
some temporary, substantial maiming.
         (c)   Any physical harm that causes acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering.
(R.C. § 2921.321)
§ 136.16 DISCLOSURE OF CONFIDENTIAL PEACE OFFICER INFORMATION.
   (A)   No officer or employee of a law enforcement agency or court, or of the
clerk’s office of any court, shall disclose during the pendency of any criminal
case the home address of any peace officer, parole officer, prosecuting
attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or youth
services employee who is a witness or arresting officer in the case.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not prohibit a peace officer, parole
officer, prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional
employee, or youth services employee from disclosing the peace officer’s,
parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant prosecuting attorney’s,
correctional employee’s, or youth services employee’s own home address, and
does not apply to any person who discloses the home address of a peace officer,
parole officer, prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney,
correctional employee, or youth services employee pursuant to a court-ordered
disclosure under division (C) of this section.
   (C)   The court in which any criminal case is pending may order the
disclosure of the home address of any peace officer, parole officer,
prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or
youth services employee who is a witness or arresting officer in the case, if
the court determines after a written request for the disclosure that good cause
exists for disclosing the home address of the peace officer, parole officer,
prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or
youth services employee.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of disclosure
of confidential information, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2921.24)
   (E)   No judge of a court of record, or Mayor presiding over a Mayor’s
Court, shall order a peace officer, parole officer, prosecuting attorney,
assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or youth services
employee who is a witness in a criminal case, to disclose the peace officer’s,
parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant prosecuting attorney’s,
correctional employee’s, or youth services employee’s home address during the
peace officer’s, parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant
prosecuting attorney’s, correctional employee’s, or youth services employee’s
examination in the case unless the judge or Mayor determines that the defendant
has a right to the disclosure.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
      CORRECTIONAL EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 149.43.
      YOUTH SERVICES EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 149.43.
(R.C. § 2921.25)
§ 136.17 INTIMIDATION OF CRIME VICTIM OR WITNESS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly attempt to intimidate or hinder the victim
of a crime or delinquent act in the filing or prosecution of criminal charges
or a delinquent child action or proceeding, and no person shall knowingly
attempt to intimidate a witness to a criminal or delinquent act by reason of
the person being a witness to that act.
   (B)   No person, knowingly and by force or by unlawful threat of harm to any
person or property or by unlawful threat to commit any offense or calumny
against any person, shall attempt to influence, intimidate, or hinder any of
the following persons:
      (1)   The victim of a crime or delinquent act in the filing or
prosecution of criminal charges or a delinquent child action or proceeding;
      (2)   A witness to a criminal or delinquent act by reason of the person
being a witness to that act;
      (3)   An attorney by reason of the attorney’s involvement in any criminal
or delinquent child action or proceeding.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any person who is
attempting to resolve a dispute pertaining to the alleged commission of a
criminal offense, either prior to or subsequent to the filing of a complaint,
indictment, or information by participating in the arbitration, mediation,
compromise, settlement or conciliation of that dispute pursuant to an
authorization for arbitration, mediation, compromise, settlement, or
conciliation of a dispute of that nature that is conferred by any of the
following:
      (1)   A section of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (2)   The Rules of Criminal Procedure, the Rules of Superintendence for
Municipal Courts and County Courts, the Rules of Superintendence for Courts of
Common Pleas, or another rule adopted by the Ohio Supreme Court in accordance
with Ohio Constitution, Article IV, Section 5.
      (3)   A local rule of court, including but not limited to a local rule of
court that relates to alternative dispute resolution or other case management
programs and that authorizes the referral of disputes pertaining to the alleged
commission of certain types of criminal offenses to appropriate and available
arbitration, mediation, compromise, settlement or other conciliation programs.
      (4)   The order of a judge of a municipal court, county court, or court
of common pleas.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of intimidation of an
attorney, victim or witness in a criminal case. A violation of division (A) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. A violation of division (B)
of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (E)   As used in this section, WITNESS means any person who has or claims to
have knowledge concerning a fact or facts concerning a criminal or delinquent
act, whether or not criminal or delinquent child charges are actually filed.
(R.C. § 2921.04)
Statutory reference:
   Retaliation, felony offense, see R.C. § 2921.05
§ 136.18 USING SHAM LEGAL PROCESS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      LAWFULLY ISSUED. Means adopted, issued, or rendered in accordance with
the United States Constitution, the Constitution of a state, and the applicable
statutes, rules, regulations and ordinances of the United States, a state, and
the political subdivisions of a state.
      POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS. Means municipal corporations, townships,
counties, school districts, and all other bodies corporate and politic that are
organized under state law and are responsible for governmental activities only
in geographical areas smaller than that of a state.
      SHAM LEGAL PROCESS. Means an instrument that meets all of the following
conditions:
         (a)   It is not lawfully issued.
         (b)   It purports to do any of the following:
            1.   To be a summons, subpoena, judgment, or order of a court, a
law enforcement officer, or a legislative, executive or administrative body.
            2.   To assert jurisdiction over or determine the legal or
equitable status, rights, duties, powers, or privileges of any person or
property.
            3.   To require or authorize the search, seizure, indictment,
arrest, trial, or sentencing of any person or property.
         (c)   It is designed to make another person believe that it is
lawfully issued.
      STATE. Means a state of the United States, including without limitation
the state legislature, the highest court of the state that has statewide
jurisdiction, the offices of all elected state officers, and all departments,
boards, offices, commissions, agencies, institutions, and other
instrumentalities of the state. The term does not include the political
subdivisions of the state.
   (B)   No person shall, knowing the sham legal process to be a sham legal
process, do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly issue, display, deliver, distribute, or otherwise use
sham legal process.
      (2)   Knowingly use sham legal process to arrest, detain, search or seize
any person or the property of another person.
      (3)   Knowingly commit or facilitate the commission of an offense using
sham legal process.
      (4)   Knowingly commit a felony by using sham legal process.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(1) or (B)
(2) of this section that the use of sham legal process was for a lawful
purpose.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of using sham legal process. A
violation of division (B)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. A violation of division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree, except that if the purpose of a violation of
division (B)(3) of this section is to commit or facilitate the commission of a
felony, a violation of division (B)(3) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division (B)(4) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.52(A) - (D))
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability, see R.C. § 2921.52(E)
§ 136.19 MAKING FALSE ALLEGATION OF PEACE OFFICER MISCONDUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section, PEACE OFFICER has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2935.01.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly file a complaint against a peace officer
that alleges that the peace officer engaged in misconduct in the performance of
the officer’s duties if the person knows that the allegation is false.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of making a
false allegation of peace officer misconduct, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2921.15)
§ 136.20 MISUSE OF 9-1-1 SYSTEM.
   (A)   As used in this section, 9-1-1 SYSTEM means a system through which
individuals can request emergency service using the telephone number 9-1-1.
(R.C. § 128.01(A))
   (B)   No person shall knowingly use the telephone number of a 9-1-1 system
established under R.C. Chapter 128 to report an emergency if the person knows
that no emergency exists.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly use a 9-1-1 system for a purpose other than
obtaining emergency service.
   (D)   No person shall disclose or use any information concerning telephone
numbers, addresses, or names obtained from the database that serves the public
safety answering point of a 9-1-1 system established under R.C. Chapter 128,
except for any of the following purposes or under any of the following
circumstances:
      (1)   For the purpose of the 9-1-1 system;
      (2)   For the purpose of responding to an emergency call to an emergency
service provider;
      (3)   In the circumstance of the inadvertent disclosure of such
information due solely to technology of the wireless telephone network portion
of the 9-1-1 system not allowing access to the database to be restricted to 9-
1-1 specific answering lines at a public safety answering point;
      (4)   In the circumstance of access to a database being given by a
telephone company that is a wireless service provider to a public utility or
municipal utility in handling customer calls in times of public emergency or
service outages. The charge, terms, and conditions for the disclosure or use of
such information for the purpose of such access to a database shall be subject
to the jurisdiction of the Steering Committee;
      (5)   In the circumstance of access to a database given by a telephone
company that is a wireline service provider to a state and local government in
warning of a public emergency, as determined by the Steering Committee. The
charge, terms and conditions for the disclosure or use of that information for
the purpose of access to a database is subject to the jurisdiction of the
Steering Committee.
(R.C. § 128.32(E) - (G))
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 128.99(A), (B))
§ 136.21 FAILURE TO DISCLOSE PERSONAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   No person who is in a public place shall refuse to disclose the
person’s name, address, or date of birth, when requested by a law enforcement
officer who reasonably suspects either of the following:
      (1)   The person is committing, has committed, or is about to commit a
criminal offense.
      (2)   The person witnessed any of the following:
         (a)   An offense of violence that would constitute a felony under the
laws of this state;
         (b)   A felony offense that causes or results in, or creates a
substantial risk of, serious physical harm to another person or property;
         (c)   Any attempt or conspiracy to commit, or complicity in
committing, any offenses identified in division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this
section;
         (d)   Any conduct reasonably indicating that any offense identified in
division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this section or any attempt, conspiracy, or
complicity described in division (A)(2)(c) of this section has been, is being,
or is about to be committed.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of failure to
disclose one’s personal information, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (C)   Nothing in division (A) of this section requires a person to answer
any questions beyond that person’
   (D)   It is not a violation of division (A) of this section to refuse to
answer a question that would reveal a person’s age or date of birth if age is
an element of the crime that the person is suspected of committing.
(R.C. § 2921.29)
   (E)   No person entering an airport, train station, port, or other similar
critical transportation infrastructure site shall refuse to show identification
when requested by a law enforcement officer when there is a threat to security
and the law enforcement officer is requiring identification of all persons
entering the site.
   (F)   A law enforcement officer may prevent any person who refuses to show
identification when asked under the circumstances described in division (E) of
this section from entering the critical transportation infrastructure site.
(R.C. § 2909.31)
CHAPTER 137: WEAPONS CONTROL
Section
   
137.01   Definitions
   
137.02   Carrying concealed weapons
   
137.03   Using weapons while intoxicated
   
137.04   Improperly handling firearms in a motor vehicle
   
137.05   Possessing criminal tools
   
137.06   Failure to secure dangerous ordnance
   
137.07   Unlawful transactions in weapons
   
137.08   Underage purchase of firearm or handgun
   
137.09   Pointing and discharging firearms and other weapons
   
137.10   License or permit to possess dangerous ordnance
   
137.11   Possession of an object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school
safety zone
   
137.12   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention
   
137.13   Concealed handgun licenses: possession of a revoked or suspended
license; additional restrictions; posting of signs prohibiting possession
   
137.14   Defaced firearms
Cross-reference:
   Conveyance into certain facilities, see §
136.13
   Injury to persons by hunters, see §
135.05
   Injury to property by hunters, see §
131.24
   Using weapons to endanger or damage aircraft or airport operations, see §
131.05
Statutory reference:
   Return of surrendered firearms by law enforcement, see R.C. § 2923.163
§ 137.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE DUTY. Has the same meaning as defined in 10 U.S.C. § 101.
   ALIEN REGISTRATION NUMBER. The number issued by the United States
Citizenship and Immigration Services Agency that is located on the alien’s
permanent resident card and may also be commonly referred to as the “USCIS
number” or the “alien number”.
   AUTOMATIC FIREARM. Any firearm designed or specially adapted to fire a
succession of cartridges with a single function of the trigger.
   BALLISTIC KNIFE. A knife with a detachable blade that is propelled by a
spring-operated mechanism.
   CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSE or LICENSE TO CARRY A CONCEALED HANDGUN.
      (1)   Means, subject to division (2) of this definition, a license or
temporary emergency license to carry a concealed handgun issued under R.C. §
2923.125 or R.C. § 2923.1213 or a license to carry a concealed handgun issued
by another state with which the Attorney General has entered into a reciprocity
agreement under R.C. § 109.69.
      (2)   A reference in any provision of this Code to a concealed handgun
license issued under R.C. § 2923.125 or a license to carry a concealed handgun
issued under R.C. § 2923.125 means only a license of the type that is specified
in that section. A reference in any provision of this Code to a concealed
handgun license issued under R.C. § 2923.1213, a license to carry a concealed
handgun issued under R.C. § 2923.1213, or a license to carry a concealed
handgun on a temporary emergency basis means only a license of the type that is
specified in R.C. § 2923.1213. A reference in any provision of this Code to a
concealed handgun license issued by another state or a license to carry a
concealed handgun issued by another state means only a license issued by
another state with which the Attorney General has entered into a reciprocity
agreement under R.C. § 109.69.
   DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
      (1)   Any of the following, except as provided in division (2) of this
definition:
         (a)   Any automatic or sawed-off firearm, zip-gun, or ballistic knife.
         (b)   Any explosive device or incendiary device.
         (c)   Nitroglycerin, nitrocellulose, nitrostarch, PETN, cyclonite,
TNT, picric acid, and other high explosives; amatol, tritonal, tetrytol,
pentolite, pecretol, cyclotol, and other high explosive compositions; plastic
explosives; dynamite, blasting gelatin, gelatin dynamite, sensitized ammonium
nitrate, liquid-oxygen blasting explosives, blasting powder, and other blasting
agents; and any other explosive substance having sufficient brisance or power
to be particularly suitable for use as a military explosive, or for use in
mining, quarrying, excavating, or demolitions.
         (d)   Any firearm, rocket launcher, mortar, artillery piece, grenade,
mine, bomb, torpedo, or similar weapon, designed and manufactured for military
purposes, and the ammunition for that weapon.
         (e)   Any firearm muffler or suppressor.
         (f)   Any combination of parts that is intended by the owner for use
in converting any firearm or other device into a dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   The term does not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any firearm, including a military weapon and the ammunition for
that weapon, and regardless of its actual age, that employs a percussion cap or
other obsolete ignition system, or that is designed and safe for use only with
black powder.
         (b)   Any pistol, rifle, or shotgun, designed or suitable for sporting
purposes, including a military weapon as issued or as modified, and the
ammunition for that weapon, unless the firearm is an automatic or sawed-off
firearm.
         (c)   Any cannon or other artillery piece that, regardless of its
actual age, is of a type in accepted use prior to 1887, has no mechanical,
hydraulic, pneumatic, or other system for absorbing recoil and returning the
tube into battery without displacing the carriage, and is designed and safe for
use only with black powder.
         (d)   Black powder, priming quills, and percussion caps possessed and
lawfully used to fire a cannon of a type defined in division (2)(c) of this
definition during displays, celebrations, organized matches or shoots, and
target practice, and smokeless and black powder, primers, and percussion caps
possessed and lawfully used as a propellant or ignition device in small-arms or
small-arms ammunition.
         (e)   Dangerous ordnance that is inoperable or inert and cannot
readily be rendered operable or activated, and that is kept as a trophy,
souvenir, curio, or museum piece.
         (f)   Any device that is expressly excepted from the definition of a
destructive device pursuant to the Gun Control Act of 1968, 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)
(4), as amended, and regulations issued under that act.
         (g)   Any firearm with an overall length of at least 26 inches that is
approved for sale by the Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and
Explosives under the “Gun Control Act of 1968”, 82 Stat. 1213, 18 U.S.C. § 921
(a)(3), but that is found by the Bureau not to be regulated under the “National
Firearms Act”, 68A Stat. 725 (1934), 26 U.S.C. § 5845(a).
   DEADLY WEAPON. Any instrument, device, or thing capable of inflicting death,
and designed or specially adapted for use as a weapon, or possessed, carried,
or used as a weapon.
   EXPLOSIVE. Any chemical compound, mixture, or device, the primary or common
purpose of which is to function by explosion. The term includes all materials
that have been classified as division 1.1, division 1.2, division 1.3, or
division 1.4 explosives by the United States Department of Transportation in
its regulations and includes but is not limited to dynamite, black powder,
pellet powders, initiating explosives, blasting caps, electric blasting caps,
safety fuses, fuse igniters, squibs, cordeau detonant fuses, instantaneous
fuses, and igniter cords and igniters. The term does not include “fireworks”,
as defined in R.C. § 3743.01, or any substance or material otherwise meeting
the definition of explosive set forth in this section that is manufactured,
sold, possessed, transported, stored, or used in any activity described in R.C.
§ 3743.80, provided the activity is conducted in accordance with all applicable
laws, rules, and regulations, including but not limited to the provisions of
R.C. § 3743.80 and the rules of the Fire Marshal adopted pursuant to R.C. §
3737.82.
   EXPLOSIVE DEVICE. Any device designed or specially adapted to cause physical
harm to persons or property by means of an explosion, and consisting of an
explosive substance or agency and a means to detonate it. The term includes
without limitation any bomb, any explosive demolition device, any blasting cap
or detonator containing an explosive charge, and any pressure vessel that has
been knowingly tampered with or arranged so as to explode.
   FIREARM.
      (1)   Any deadly weapon capable of expelling or propelling one or more
projectiles by the action of an explosive or combustible propellant. The term
includes an unloaded firearm, and any firearm that is inoperable but that can
readily be rendered operable.
      (2)   When determining whether a firearm is capable of expelling or
propelling one or more projectiles by the action of an explosive or combustible
propellant, the trier of fact may rely upon circumstantial evidence, including
but not limited to the representations and actions of the individual exercising
control over the firearm.
   HANDGUN. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any firearm that has a short stock and is designed to be held and
fired by the use of a single hand;
      (2)   Any combination of parts from which a firearm of a type described
in division (1) of this definition can be assembled.
   INCENDIARY DEVICE. Any firebomb, and any device designed or specially
adapted to cause physical harm to persons or property by means of fire, and
consisting of an incendiary substance or agent and a means to ignite it.
   MISDEMEANOR PUNISHABLE BY IMPRISONMENT FOR A TERM EXCEEDING ONE YEAR. The
phrase does not include any of the following:
      (1)   Any federal or state offense pertaining to antitrust violations,
unfair trade practices, restraints of trade, or other similar offenses relating
to the regulation of business practices;
      (2)   Any misdemeanor offense punishable by a term of imprisonment of two
years or less.
   SAWED-OFF FIREARM. A shotgun with a barrel less than 18 inches long, or a
rifle with a barrel less than 16 inches long, or a shotgun or rifle less than
26 inches long overall. “Sawed-off firearm” does not include any firearm with
an overall length of at least 26 inches that is approved for sale by the
Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives under the “Gun
Control Act of 1968”, 82 Stat. 1213, 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)(3), but that is found
by the Bureau not to be regulated under the “National Firearms Act”, 68A Stat.
725 (1934), 26 U.S.C. § 5845(a).
   SEMI-AUTOMATIC FIREARM. Any firearm designed or specially adapted to fire a
single cartridge and automatically chamber a succeeding cartridge ready to
fire, with a single function of the trigger.
   VALID CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSE or VALID LICENSE TO CARRY A CONCEALED
HANDGUN. A concealed handgun license that is currently valid, that is not under
a suspension under R.C. § 2923.128(A)(1), under R.C. § 2923.1213, or under a
suspension provision of the state other than this state in which the license
was issued, and that has not been revoked under R.C. § 2923.128(B)(1), under
R.C. § 2923.1213, or under a revocation provision of the state other than this
state in which the license was issued.
   ZIP-GUN. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any firearm of crude and extemporized manufacture.
      (2)   Any device, including without limitation a starter’s pistol, not
designed as a firearm, but that is specially adapted for use as a firearm.
      (3)   Any industrial tool, signaling device, or safety device, not
designed as a firearm, but that as designed is capable of use as such, when
possessed, carried, or used as a firearm.
(R.C. § 2923.11)
§ 137.02 CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly carry or have, concealed on the person’s
person or concealed ready at hand, any of the following:
      (1)   A deadly weapon other than a handgun;
      (2)   A handgun other than a dangerous ordnance;
      (3)   A dangerous ordnance.
   (B)   No person who has been issued a concealed handgun license shall do any
of the following:
      (1)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose, and is
carrying a concealed handgun, fail to promptly inform any law enforcement
officer who approaches the person after the person has been stopped that the
person has been issued a concealed handgun license and that the person then is
carrying a concealed handgun;
      (2)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to keep the person’s hands in
plain sight at any time after any law enforcement officer begins approaching
the person while stopped and before the law enforcement officer leaves, unless
the failure is pursuant to and in accordance with directions given by a law
enforcement officer;
      (3)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose, if the
person is carrying a concealed handgun, and if the person is approached by any
law enforcement officer while stopped, knowingly remove or attempt to remove
the loaded handgun from the holster, pocket, or other place in which the person
is carrying it, knowingly grasp or hold the loaded handgun, or knowingly have
contact with the loaded handgun by touching it with the person’s hands or
fingers at any time after the law enforcement officer begins approaching and
before the law enforcement officer leaves, unless the person removes, attempts
to remove, grasps, holds, or has contact with the loaded handgun pursuant to
and in accordance with directions given by the law enforcement officer;
      (4)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly disregard or fail to comply with any
lawful order of any law enforcement officer given while the person is stopped,
including but not limited to a specific order to the person to keep the
person’s hands in plain sight.
   (C)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, or to a law enforcement officer, who is authorized to carry
concealed weapons or dangerous ordnance or is authorized to carry handguns and
is acting within the scope of the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties;
         (b)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry concealed weapons or dangerous ordnance or is authorized to carry
handguns, and who is subject to and in compliance with the requirements of R.C.
§ 109.801, unless the appointing authority of the person has expressly
specified that the exemption provided in this division (C)(1)(b) does not apply
to the person;
         (c)   A person’s transportation or storage of a firearm, other than a
firearm described in R.C. § 2923.11(G) to (M), in a motor vehicle for any
lawful purpose if the firearm is not on the actor’s person;
         (d)   A person’s storage or possession of a firearm, other than a
firearm described in R.C. § 2923.11(G) to (M), in the actor’s own home for any
lawful purpose.
      (2)   Division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to any person who,
at the time of the alleged carrying or possession of a handgun, either is
carrying a valid concealed handgun license or is an active duty member of the
armed forces of the United States and is carrying a valid military
identification card and documentation of successful completion of firearms
training that meets or exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. §
2923.125(G)(1), unless the person knowingly is in a place described in R.C. §
2923.126(B).
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(1) of this
section of carrying or having control of a weapon other than a handgun and
other than a dangerous ordnance, that the actor was not otherwise prohibited by
law from having the weapon, and that any of the following applies:
      (1)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for
defensive purposes, while the actor was engaged in or was going to or from the
actor’s lawful business or occupation, which business or occupation was of a
character or was necessarily carried on in a manner or at a time or place as to
render the actor particularly susceptible to criminal attack, such as would
justify a prudent person in going armed.
      (2)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for
defensive purposes, while the actor was engaged in a lawful activity and had
reasonable cause to fear a criminal attack upon the actor, a member of the
actor’s family, or the actor’s home, such as would justify a prudent person in
going armed.
      (3)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for any
lawful purpose and while in the actor’s own home.
   (E)   No person who is charged with a violation of this section shall be
required to obtain a concealed handgun license as a condition for the dismissal
of the charge.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of carrying concealed
weapons. Except as otherwise provided in this division or divisions (F)(2), (F)
(6), and (F)(7) of this section, carrying concealed weapons in violation of
division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Except as
otherwise provided in this division or divisions (F)(2), (F)(6), and (F)(7) of
this section, if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of
this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance
or of any offense of violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is
either loaded or for which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the
weapon involved is dangerous ordnance, carrying concealed weapons in violation
of division (A) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. Except as otherwise provided in divisions (F)(2), (F)(6), and (F)(7)
of this section, if the offense is committed aboard an aircraft, or with
purpose to carry a concealed weapon aboard an aircraft, regardless of the
weapon involved, carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (A) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (F)(6) of this section, if a person
being arrested for a violation of division (A)(2) of this section promptly
produces a valid concealed handgun license, and if at the time of the violation
the person was not knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B), the
officer shall not arrest the person for a violation of that division. If the
person is not able to promptly produce any concealed handgun license and if the
person is not in a place described in that section, the officer may arrest the
person for a violation of that division, and the offender shall be punished as
follows:
         (a)   The offender shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor if both of
the following apply:
            1.   Within 10 days after the arrest, the offender presents a
concealed handgun license, which license was valid at the time of the arrest to
the law enforcement agency that employs the arresting officer.
            2.   At the time of the arrest, the offender was not knowingly in a
place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
         (b)   The offender shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined
$500 if all of the following apply:
            1.   The offender previously had been issued a concealed handgun
license, and that license expired within the two years immediately preceding
the arrest.
            2.   Within 45 days after the arrest, the offender presents a
concealed handgun license to the law enforcement agency that employed the
arresting officer, and the offender waives in writing the offender’s right to a
speedy trial on the charge of the violation that is provided in R.C. § 2945.71.
            3.   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
not knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
         (c)   If divisions (F)(2)(a) and (F)(2)(b) and (F)(6) of this section
do not apply, the offender shall be punished under division (F)(1) or (F)(7) of
this section.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, carrying concealed
weapons in violation of division (B)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree, and, in addition to any other penalty or sanction imposed for a
violation of division (B)(1) of this section, the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2). If, at the time
of the stop of the offender for a law enforcement purpose that was the basis of
the violation, any law enforcement officer involved with the stop had actual
knowledge that the offender has been issued a concealed handgun license,
carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(1) of this section is a
minor misdemeanor, and the offender’s concealed handgun license shall not be
suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2).
      (4)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(2) or (B)
(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. In
addition to any other penalty or sanction imposed for a misdemeanor violation
of division (B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section, the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2).
      (5)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(3) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (6)   If a person being arrested for a violation of division (A)(2) of
this section is an active duty m ember of the armed forces of the United States
and is carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of
successful completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training
requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), and if at the time of the
violation the person was not knowingly in a place described in R.C. 2923.126
(B), the officer shall not arrest the person for a violation of that division.
If the person is not able to promptly produce a valid military identification
card and documentation of successful completion of firearms training that meets
or exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1) and if
the person is not in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B), the officer shall
issue a citation and the offender shall be assessed a civil penalty of not more
than $500. The citation shall be automatically dismissed and the civil penalty
shall not be assessed if both of the following apply:
         (a)   Within ten days after the issuance of the citation, the offender
presents a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), which were both valid at the time of the
issuance of the citation to the law enforcement agency that employs the citing
officer.
         (b)   At the time of the citation, the offender was not knowingly in a
place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
      (7)   If a person being arrested for a violation of division (A)(2) of
this section is knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B)(5) and is
not authorized to carry a handgun or have a handgun concealed on the person’s
person or concealed ready at hand under that division, the penalty shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person
produces a valid concealed handgun license within ten days after the arrest and
has not previously been convicted or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(A)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a minor misdemeanor;
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (A)
(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
         (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division
(A)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree;
         (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of
division (A)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, or convicted of or pleaded guilty to any offense of
violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is either loaded or for
which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the weapon involved is a
dangerous ordnance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   If a law enforcement officer stops a person to question the person
regarding a possible violation of this section, for a traffic stop, or for any
other law enforcement purpose, if the person surrenders a firearm to the
officer, either voluntarily or pursuant to a request or demand of the officer,
and if the officer does not charge the person with a violation of this section
or arrest the person for any offense, the person is not otherwise prohibited by
law from possessing the firearm, and the firearm is not contraband, the officer
shall return the firearm to the person at the termination of the stop. If a
court orders a law enforcement officer to return a firearm to a person pursuant
to the requirement set forth in this division, R.C. § 2923.163(B) applies.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, "deadly weapon" or "weapon" does not
include any knife, razor, or cutting instrument if the instrument was not used
as a weapon.
(R.C. § 2923.12)
Statutory reference:
   Carrying concealed handguns, licensing through county sheriff, see R.C. §§
2923.124 et seq.
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance on school
premises, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122
   Conveyance, possession, or control of deadly weapon or dangerous ordinance
in a courthouse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.123
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offense, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
   Possession of firearm in liquor permit premises, felony offense, see R.C. §
2923.121
§ 137.03 USING WEAPONS WHILE INTOXICATED.
   (A)   No person, while under the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse,
shall carry or use any firearm or dangerous ordnance.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of using weapons while
intoxicated, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2923.15)
§ 137.04 IMPROPERLY HANDLING FIREARMS IN A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly discharge a firearm while in or on a motor
vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a loaded firearm in a
motor vehicle in such a manner that the firearm is accessible to the operator
or any passenger without leaving the vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a firearm in a motor
vehicle, unless the person may lawfully possess that firearm under applicable
law of this state or the United States, the firearm is unloaded, and the
firearm is carried in one of the following ways:
      (1)   In a closed package, box, or case.
      (2)   In a compartment that can be reached only by leaving the vehicle.
      (3)   In plain sight and secured in a rack or holder made for the
purpose.
      (4)   If the firearm is at least 24 inches in overall length as measured
from the muzzle to the part of the stock furthest from the muzzle and if the
barrel is at least 18 inches in length, either in plain sight with the action
open or the weapon stripped, or, if the firearm is of a type on which the
action will not stay open or which cannot easily be stripped, in plain sight.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a loaded handgun in a
motor vehicle if, at the time of that transportation or possession, any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a
combination of them.
      (2)   The person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine
contains a concentration of alcohol, a listed controlled substance, or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance prohibited for persons operating a
vehicle, as specified in R.C. § 4511.19(A), regardless of whether the person at
the time of the transportation or possession as described in this division is
the operator of or a passenger in the motor vehicle.
   (E)   No person who has been issued a concealed handgun license or who is an
active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is carrying a
valid military identification card and documentation of successful completion
of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements described
in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), who is the driver or an occupant of a motor vehicle
that is stopped as a result of a traffic stop or a stop for another law
enforcement purpose or is the driver or an occupant of a commercial motor
vehicle that is stopped by an employee of the motor carrier enforcement unit
for the purposes defined in R.C. § 5503.34, and who is transporting or has a
loaded handgun in the motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle in any manner,
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to promptly inform any law enforcement officer who approaches
the vehicle while stopped that the person has been issued a concealed handgun
license or is authorized to carry a concealed handgun as an active duty member
of the armed forces of the United States and that the person then possesses or
has a loaded handgun in the motor vehicle;
      (2)   Fail to promptly inform the employee of the unit who approaches the
vehicle while stopped that the person has been issued a concealed handgun
license or is authorized to carry a concealed handgun as an active duty member
of the armed forces of the United States and that the person then possesses or
has a loaded handgun in the commercial motor vehicle;
      (3)   Knowingly fail to remain in the motor vehicle while stopped, or
knowingly fail to keep the person’s hands in plain sight at any time after any
law enforcement officer begins approaching the person while stopped and before
the law enforcement officer leaves, unless the failure is pursuant to and in
accordance with directions given by a law enforcement officer;
      (4)   Knowingly have contact with the loaded handgun by touching it with
the person’s hands or fingers in the motor vehicle at any time after the law
enforcement officer begins approaching and before the law enforcement officer
leaves, unless the person has contact with the loaded handgun pursuant to and
in accordance with directions given by the law enforcement officer.
      (5)   Knowingly disregard or fail to comply with any lawful order of any
law enforcement officer given while the motor vehicle is stopped, including but
not limited to a specific order to the person to keep the person’s hands in
plain sight.
   (F)   (1)   Divisions (A), (B), (C), and (E) of this section do not apply to
any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, or a law enforcement officer, when authorized to carry or have
loaded or accessible firearms in motor vehicles and acting within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties;
         (b)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry or have loaded or accessible firearms in motor vehicles, and who is
subject to and in compliance with the requirements of R.C. § 109.801, unless
the appointing authority of the person has expressly specified that the
exemption provided in this division (F)(1)(b) does not apply to the person.
      (2)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a person if all of
the following circumstances apply:
         (a)   The person discharges a firearm from a motor vehicle at a coyote
or groundhog, the discharge is not during the deer gun hunting season as set by
the Chief of the Division of Wildlife of the Department of Natural Resources,
and the discharge at the coyote or groundhog, but for the operation of this
section, is lawful.
         (b)   The motor vehicle from which the person discharges the firearm
is on real property that is located in an unincorporated area of a township and
that is either zoned for agriculture or is used for agriculture.
         (c)   The person owns the real property described in division (F)(2)
(b) of this section, is the spouse or a child of another person who owns that
real property, is a tenant of another person who owns that real property, or is
the spouse or a child of a tenant of another person who owns that real
property.
         (d)   The person does not discharge the firearm in any of the
following manners:
            1.   While under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
alcohol and a drug of abuse;
            2.   In the direction of a street, highway or other public or
private property used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking;
            3.   At or into an occupied structure that is a permanent or
temporary habitation;
            4.   In the commission of any violation of law, including but not
limited to a felony that includes, as an essential element, purposely or
knowingly causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to
another and that was committed by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle.
      (3)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a person if all of
the following apply:
         (a)   The person possesses a valid all-purpose vehicle permit issued
under R.C. § 1533.103 by the Chief of the Division of Wildlife.
         (b)   The person discharges a firearm at a wild quadruped or game bird
as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 during the open hunting season for the applicable
wild quadruped or game bird.
         (c)   The person discharges a firearm from a stationary all-purpose
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 from private or publicly owned lands or
from a motor vehicle that is parked on a road that is owned or administered by
the Division of Wildlife.
         (d)   The person does not discharge the firearm in any of the
following manners:
            1.   While under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
alcohol and a drug of abuse;
            2.   In the direction of a street, a highway, or other public or
private property that is used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking;
            3.   At or into an occupied structure that is a permanent or
temporary habitation;
            4.   In the commission of any violation of law, including but not
limited to a felony that includes, as an essential element, purposely or
knowingly causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to
another and that was committed by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle.
      (4)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person if
all of the following circumstances apply:
         (a)   At the time of the alleged violation of either of those
divisions, the person is the operator of or a passenger in a motor vehicle.
         (b)   The motor vehicle is on real property that is located in an
unincorporated area of a township and that is either zoned for agriculture or
is used for agriculture.
         (c)   The person owns the real property described in division (F)(4)
(b) of this section, is the spouse or a child of another person who owns that
real property, is a tenant of another person who owns that real property, or is
the spouse or a child of a tenant of another person who owns that real
property.
         (d)   The person, prior to arriving at the real property described in
division (F)(4)(b) of this section, did not transport or possess a firearm in
the motor vehicle in a manner prohibited by division (B) or (C) of this section
while the motor vehicle was being operated on a street, highway or other public
or private property used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking.
      (5)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person who
transports or possesses a handgun in a motor vehicle if, at the time of that
transportation or possession, both of the following apply:
         (a)   The person transporting or possessing the handgun is either
carrying a valid concealed handgun license or is an active duty member of the
armed forces of the United States and is carrying a valid military
identification card and documentation of successful completion of firearms
training that meets or exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. §
2923.125(G)(1).
         (b)   The person transporting or possessing the handgun is not
knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
      (6)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person if
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person possesses a valid all-purpose vehicle permit issued
under R.C. § 1533.103 by the Chief of the Division of Wildlife.
         (b)   The person is on or in an all-purpose vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 1531.01 or a motor vehicle during the open hunting season for a wild
quadruped or game bird.
         (c)   The person is on or in an all-purpose vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 1531.01 on private or publicly owned lands or on or in a motor vehicle that
is parked on a road that is owned or administered by the Division of Wildlife.
   (G)   (1)   The affirmative defenses authorized in R.C. § 2923.12(D)(1) and
(D)(2) are affirmative defenses to a charge under division (B) or (C) of this
section that involves a firearm other than a handgun.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B) or (C)
of this section of improperly handling firearms in a motor vehicle that the
actor transported or had the firearm in the motor vehicle for any lawful
purpose and while the motor vehicle was on the actor’s own property, provided
that this affirmative defense is not available unless the person, immediately
prior to arriving at the actor’s own property, did not transport or possess the
firearm in a motor vehicle in a manner prohibited by division (B) or (C) of
this section while the motor vehicle was being operated on a street, highway,
or other public or private property used by the public for vehicular traffic.
   (H)   (1)   No person who is charged with a violation of division (B), (C),
or (D) of this section shall be required to obtain a concealed handgun license
as a condition for the dismissal of the charge.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty
to, or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E) of this section as it
existed prior to September 30, 2011, and if the conduct that was the basis of
the violation no longer would be a violation of division (E) of this section on
or after September 30, 2011, the person may file an application under R.C. §
2953.37 requesting the expungement of the record of conviction.
         (b)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty to,
or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B) or (C) of this section as
the division existed prior to September 30, 2011, and if the conduct that was
the basis of the violation no longer would be a violation of division (B) or
(C) of this section on or after September 30, 2011, due to the application of
division (F)(5) of this section as it exists on and after September 30, 2011,
the person may file an application under R.C. § 2953.37 requesting the
expungement of the record of conviction.
   (I)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of improperly handling
firearms in a motor vehicle. Violation of division (A) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. Violation of division (C)
of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. A violation of division
(D) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law
and, if the loaded handgun is concealed on the person’s person, it is also a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, a violation of division (E)(1) or (E)(2) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree, and, in addition to any other
penalty or sanction imposed for the violation, the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2). If at the time of
the stop of the offender for a traffic stop, for another law enforcement
purpose, or for a purpose defined in R.C. § 5503.34 that was the basis of the
violation any law enforcement officer involved with the stop or the employee of
the motor carrier enforcement unit who made the stop had actual knowledge of
the offender’s status as a licensee, a violation of division (E)(1) or (E)(2)
of this section is a minor misdemeanor, and the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall not be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2). A violation
of division (E)(4) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. A violation of division (E)(3) or (E)(5) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E)(3) or (E)(5) of
this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. In addition to any other
penalty or sanction imposed for a misdemeanor violation of division (E)(3) or
(E)(5) of this section, the offender’s concealed handgun license shall be
suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2). A violation of division (B) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (J)   If a law enforcement officer stops a motor vehicle for a traffic stop
or any other purpose, if any person in the motor vehicle surrenders a firearm
to the officer, either voluntarily or pursuant to a request or demand of the
officer, and if the officer does not charge the person with a violation of this
section or arrest the person for any offense, the person is not otherwise
prohibited by law from possessing the firearm, and the firearm is not
contraband, the officer shall return the firearm to the person at the
termination of the stop. If a court orders a law enforcement officer to return
a firearm to a person pursuant to the requirement set forth in this division,
R.C. § 2923.163(B) applies.
   (K)   As used in this section:
      AGRICULTURE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 519.01.
      COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4506.25(A).
      HIGHWAY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      MOTOR CARRIER ENFORCEMENT UNIT. Means the Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit
in the Department of Public Safety, Division of State Highway Patrol, that is
created by R.C. § 5503.34.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      OCCUPIED STRUCTURE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.01.
      STREET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      TENANT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1531.01.
      UNLOADED.
         (a)   With respect to a firearm other than a firearm described in
division (d) of this definition, means that no ammunition is in the firearm in
question, no magazine or speed loader containing ammunition is inserted into
the firearm, and one of the following applies:
            1.   There is no ammunition in a magazine or speed loader that is
in the vehicle in question and that may be used with the firearm in question.
            2.   Any magazine or speed loader that contains ammunition and that
may be used with the firearm in question is stored in a compartment within the
vehicle in question that cannot be accessed without leaving the vehicle or is
stored in a container that provides complete and separate enclosure.
         (b)   For the purposes of division (a)2. of this definition, a
“container that provides complete and separate enclosure” includes, but is not
limited to, any of the following:
            1.   A package, box, or case with multiple compartments, as long as
the loaded magazine or speed loader and the firearm in question either are in
separate compartments within the package, box, or case, or, if they are in the
same compartment, the magazine or speed loader is contained within a separate
enclosure in that compartment that does not contain the firearm and that closes
using a snap, button, buckle, zipper, hook and loop closing mechanism, or other
fastener that must be opened to access the contents or the firearm is contained
within a separate enclosure of that nature in that compartment that does not
contain the magazine or speed loader;
            2.   A pocket or other enclosure on the person of the person in
question that closes using a snap, button, buckle, zipper, hook and loop
closing mechanism, or other fastener that must be opened to access the
contents.
         (c)   For the purposes of divisions (a) and (b) of this definition,
ammunition held in stripper- clips or in en-bloc clips is not considered
ammunition that is loaded into a magazine or speed loader.
         (d)   “Unloaded” means, with respect to a firearm employing a
percussion cap, flintlock, or other obsolete ignition system, when the weapon
is uncapped or when the priming charge is removed from the pan.
   (L)   Divisions (a) and (b) of the definition of “unloaded” in division (K)
of this section do not affect the authority of a person who is carrying a valid
concealed handgun license to have one or more magazines or speed loaders
containing ammunition anywhere in a vehicle, without being transported as
described in those divisions, as long as no ammunition is in a firearm, other
than a handgun, in the vehicle other than as permitted under any other
provision of this chapter. A person who is carrying a valid concealed handgun
license may have one or more magazines or speed loaders containing ammunition
anywhere in a vehicle without further restriction, as long as no ammunition is
in a firearm, other than a handgun, in the vehicle other than as permitted
under any provision of this chapter.
(R.C. § 2923.16)
Statutory reference:
   Return of surrendered firearms by law enforcement, see R.C. § 2923.163
§ 137.05 POSSESSING CRIMINAL TOOLS.
   (A)   No person shall possess or have under his or her control any
substance, device, instrument, or article, with purpose to use it criminally.
   (B)   Each of the following constitutes prima facie evidence of criminal
purpose:
      (1)   Possession or control of any dangerous ordnance, or the materials
or parts for making a dangerous ordnance, in the absence of circumstances
indicating the dangerous ordnance, materials or parts are intended for a
legitimate use.
      (2)   Possession or control of any substance, device, instrument, or
article designed or specially adapted for criminal use.
      (3)   Possession or control of any substance, device, instrument, or
article commonly used for criminal purposes, under circumstances indicating the
item is intended for criminal use.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing criminal tools.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, possessing criminal tools is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the circumstances indicate that the
substance, device, instrument, or article involved in the offense was intended
for use in the commission of a felony, possessing criminal tools is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2923.24)
§ 137.06 FAILURE TO SECURE DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
   (A)   No person, in acquiring, possessing, carrying, or using any dangerous
ordnance, shall negligently fail to take proper precautions:
      (1)   To secure the dangerous ordnance against theft, or against its
acquisition or use by any unauthorized or incompetent person.
      (2)   To insure the safety of persons and property.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to a secure
dangerous ordnance, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2923.19)
§ 137.07 UNLAWFUL TRANSACTIONS IN WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Recklessly sell, lend, give or furnish any firearm to any person
prohibited by R.C. § 2923.13 or 2923.15, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, from acquiring or using any firearm, or recklessly sell,
lend, give or furnish any dangerous ordnance to any person prohibited by R.C. §
2923.13, 2923.15 or 2923.17, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
from acquiring or using any dangerous ordnance;
      (2)   Possess any firearm or dangerous ordnance with purpose to dispose
of it in violation of division (A)(1) of this section;
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section,
knowingly solicit, persuade, encourage, or entice a federally licensed firearms
dealer or private seller to transfer a firearm or ammunition to any person in a
manner prohibited by state or federal law;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section, with
an intent to deceive, knowingly provide materially false information to a
federally licensed firearms dealer or private seller;
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section,
knowingly procure, solicit, persuade, encourage, or entice a person to act in
violation of division (A)(3) or (A)(4) of this section;
      (6)   When transferring any dangerous ordnance to another, negligently
fail to require the transferee to exhibit such identification, license, or
permit showing the transferee to be authorized to acquire dangerous ordnance
pursuant to R.C. § 2923.17, or negligently fail to take a complete record of
the transaction and forthwith forward a copy of the record to the sheriff of
the county or Safety Director or Police Chief of the municipality where the
transaction takes place;
      (7)   Knowingly fail to report to law enforcement authorities forthwith
the loss or theft of any firearm or dangerous ordnance in the person’s
possession and under his or her control.
   (B)   Divisions (A)(3), (A)(4), and (A)(5) of this section do not apply to
any of the following:
      (1)   A law enforcement officer who is acting within the scope of the
officer’s duties;
      (2)   A person who is acting in accordance with directions given by a law
enforcement officer described in division (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful transactions in
weapons. A violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A
violation of division (A)(6) or (A)(7) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree. A violation of division (A)(8) of this section is a misdemeanor
of the fourth degree.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      AMMUNITION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.401.
      FEDERALLY LICENSED FIREARMS DEALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5502.63.
      MATERIALLY FALSE INFORMATION. Means information regarding the transfer of
a firearm or ammunition that portrays an illegal transaction as legal or a
legal transaction as illegal.
      PRIVATE SELLER. Means a person who sells, offers for sale, or transfers a
firearm or ammunition and who is not a federally licensed firearms dealer.
(R.C. § 2923.20)
§ 137.08 UNDERAGE PURCHASE OF FIREARM OR HANDGUN.
   (A)   No person under 18 years of age shall purchase or attempt to purchase
a firearm.
   (B)   No person under 21 years of age shall purchase or attempt to purchase
a handgun; provided, that this division does not apply to the purchase or
attempted purchase of a handgun by a person 18 years of age or older and under
21 years of age if either of the following applies:
      (1)   The person is a law enforcement officer and has received firearms
training approved by the Ohio Peace Officer Training Council or equivalent
firearms training.
      (2)   The person is an active or reserve member of the armed services of
the United States or the Ohio National Guard, or was honorably discharged from
military service in the active or reserve armed services of the United States
or the Ohio National Guard, and the person has received firearms training from
the armed services or the national guard or equivalent firearms training.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of underage
purchase of a firearm, a delinquent act that would be a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law if it could be committed by an adult. Whoever
violates division (B) of this section is guilty of underage purchase of a
handgun, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2923.211)
Statutory reference:
   Improperly furnishing firearms to a minor, felony, see R.C. § 2923.21
§ 137.09 POINTING AND DISCHARGING FIREARMS AND OTHER WEAPONS.
   (A)   Discharge of firearms on or near prohibited premises. No person shall
do any of the following:
      (1)   Without permission from the proper officials and subject to
division (B)(1) of this section, discharge a firearm upon or over a cemetery or
within 100 yards of a cemetery;
      (2)   Subject to division (B)(2) of this section, discharge of a firearm
on a lawn, park, pleasure ground, orchard, or other ground appurtenant to a
schoolhouse, church, or inhabited dwelling, the property of another, or a
charitable institution;
      (3)   Discharge a firearm upon or over a public road or highway.
   (B)   Application of division (A).
      (1)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
while on the person’s own land, discharges a firearm.
      (2)   Division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to a person who owns
any type of property described in that division and who, while on the person’s
own enclosure, discharges a firearm.
   (C)   Penalty for violation of division (A). Whoever violates division (A)
of this section is guilty of discharge of a firearm on or near prohibited
premises. A violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. A violation of division (A)(3) shall be
punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) of this section, a
violation of division (A)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   If the violation created a substantial risk of physical harm to any
person, caused serious physical harm to property, caused physical harm to any
person, or caused serious physical harm to any person, a violation of division
(A)(3) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2923.162)
   (D)   Hunting near township park.
      (1)   No person shall hunt, shoot, or kill game within one-half mile of a
township park unless the Board of Township Park Commissioners has granted
permission to kill game not desired within the limits prohibited by this
division.
(R.C. § 3773.06)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (D)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 3773.99(A))
   (E)   Unlawful discharge. No person shall discharge any BB gun, air gun, or
firearm, or make use of any sling, bow and arrow, or crossbow, within the
corporate limits of the municipality.
   (F)   Unlawful pointing or aiming. No person shall, intentionally and
without malice, point or aim any BB gun, air gun, or firearm, or any sling, bow
and arrow, or crossbow at or toward another.
   (G)   Penalty for violations of division (E) or (F). Whoever violates
division (E) or (F) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
   (H)   Exceptions. This section shall not prohibit the firing of a military
salute or the firing of weapons by persons of the nation’s armed forces acting
under military authority, and shall not apply to law enforcement officials or
other government officials in the proper enforcement of the law, or to any
person in the proper exercise of the right of self defense, or to any person
otherwise lawfully permitted by proper federal, state or local authorities to
discharge a BB gun, air gun, or firearm, or to use a sling, bow and arrow, or
crossbow in a manner contrary to the provisions of this section. Division (E)
of this section does not extend to cases in which BB guns, air guns, or
firearms, or slings, bows and arrows, or crossbows are used in the confines of
structures or used within the confines of a person’s own property, provided
such use is under adult supervision and is approved by the municipality.
Statutory reference:
   Improperly discharging firearm at or into habitation or school safety zone,
felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.161
§ 137.10 LICENSE OR PERMIT TO POSSESS DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
   (A)   Upon application to the sheriff of the county or Safety Director or
Police Chief of the municipality where the applicant resides or has the
applicant’s principal place of business, and upon payment of the fee specified
in division (B) of this section, a license or temporary permit shall be issued
to qualified applicants to acquire, possess, carry or use a dangerous ordnance
for the following purposes:
      (1)   Contractors, wreckers, quarriers, mine operators and other persons
regularly employing explosives in the course of a legitimate business, with
respect to explosives and explosive devices acquired, possessed, carried or
used in the course of such business.
      (2)   Farmers, with respect to explosives and explosive devices acquired,
possessed, carried or used for agricultural purposes on lands farmed by them.
      (3)   Scientists, engineers, and instructors, with respect to a dangerous
ordnance acquired, possessed, carried or used in the course of bona fide
research or instruction.
      (4)   Financial institutions and armored car company guards, with respect
to automatic firearms lawfully acquired, possessed, carried or used by any such
person while acting within the scope of the person’s duties.
      (5)   In the discretion of the issuing authority, any responsible person,
with respect to a dangerous ordnance lawfully acquired, possessed, carried or
used for a legitimate research, scientific, educational, industrial or other
proper purpose.
   (B)   Application for a license or temporary permit under this section shall
be in writing under oath to the sheriff of the county or Safety Director or
Police Chief of the municipality where the applicant resides or has the
applicant’s principal place of business. The application shall be accompanied
by an application fee of $50 when the application is for a license, and an
application fee of $5 when the application is for a temporary permit. The fees
shall be paid into the General Revenue Fund of the county or municipality. The
application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, age, address, occupation and business address of the
applicant, if the applicant is a natural person, or the name, address, and
principal place of business of the applicant if the applicant is a corporation.
      (2)   A description of the dangerous ordnance for which a permit is
requested.
      (3)   A description of the places where and the manner in which the
dangerous ordnance is to be kept, carried, and used.
      (4)   A statement of the purposes for which the dangerous ordnance is to
be acquired, possessed, carried or used.
      (5)   Such other information as the issuing authority may require in
giving effect to this section.
   (C)   Upon investigation, the issuing authority shall issue a license or
temporary permit only if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The applicant is not otherwise prohibited by law from acquiring,
having, carrying or using a dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   The applicant is 21 years of age or over, if the applicant is a
natural person.
      (3)   It appears that the applicant has sufficient competence to safely
acquire, possess, carry or use the dangerous ordnance, and that proper
precautions will be taken to protect the security of the dangerous ordnance and
ensure the safety of persons and property.
      (4)   It appears that the dangerous ordnance will be lawfully acquired,
possessed, carried and used by the applicant for a legitimate purpose.
   (D)   The license or temporary permit shall identify the person to whom it
is issued, identify the dangerous ordnance involved and state the purposes for
which the license or temporary permit is issued, state the expiration date, if
any, and list such restrictions on the acquisition, possession, carriage, or
use of the dangerous ordnance as the issuing authority considers advisable to
protect the security of the dangerous ordnance and ensure the safety of persons
and property.
   (E)   A temporary permit shall be issued for the casual use of explosives
and explosive devices, and other consumable dangerous ordnance, and shall
expire within 30 days of its issuance. A license shall be issued for the
regular use of consumable dangerous ordnance, or for any non-consumable
dangerous ordnance, which license need not specify an expiration date, but the
issuing authority may specify such expiration date, not earlier than one year
from the date of issuance, as it considers advisable in view of the nature of
the dangerous ordnance and the purposes for which the license is issued.
   (F)   The dangerous ordnance specified in a license or temporary permit may
be obtained by the holder anywhere in the state. Pursuant to R.C. § 2923.18(F),
the holder of a license may use such dangerous ordnance anywhere in the state.
The holder of a temporary permit may use such dangerous ordnance only within
the territorial jurisdiction of the issuing authority.
   (G)   The issuing authority shall forward to the State Fire Marshal a copy
of each license or temporary permit issued pursuant to this section, and a copy
of each record of a transaction in a dangerous ordnance and of each report of a
lost or stolen dangerous ordnance, given to the local law enforcement authority
as required by R.C. § 2923.20(A)(6) and (A)(7) or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. The State Fire Marshal will keep a permanent file of all
licenses and temporary permits issued pursuant to this section, and of all
records of transactions in, and losses or thefts of a dangerous ordnance
forwarded by local law enforcement authorities pursuant to this section.
(R.C. § 2923.18)
§ 137.11 POSSESSION OF AN OBJECT INDISTINGUISHABLE FROM A FIREARM IN A SCHOOL
SAFETY ZONE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly possess an object in a school safety zone if
both of the following apply:
      (1)   The object is indistinguishable from a firearm, whether or not the
object is capable of being fired.
      (2)   The person indicates that the person possesses the object and that
it is a firearm, or the person knowingly displays or brandishes the object and
indicates that it is a firearm.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States who is authorized to carry deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance
and is acting within the scope of the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties,
a law enforcement officer who is authorized to carry deadly weapons or
dangerous ordnance, a security officer employed by a board of education or
governing body of a school during the time that the security officer is on duty
pursuant to that contract of employment, or any other person who has written
authorization from the board of education or governing body of a school to
convey deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance into a school safety zone or to
possess a deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance in a school safety zone and who
conveys or possesses the deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance in accordance with
that authorization;
         (b)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance, and who is subject to and in
compliance with the requirements of R.C. § 109.801, unless the appointing
authority of the person has expressly specified that the exemption provided in
this division (B)(1)(b) does not apply to the person.
      (2)   This section does not apply to premises upon which home schooling
is conducted. This section also does not apply to a school administrator,
teacher or employee who possesses an object that is indistinguishable from a
firearm for legitimate school purposes during the course of employment, a
student who uses an object that is indistinguishable from a firearm under the
direction of a school administrator, teacher or employee, or any other person
who, with the express prior approval of a school administrator, possesses an
object that is indistinguishable from a firearm for a legitimate purpose,
including the use of the object in a ceremonial activity, a play, re-enactment
or other dramatic presentation, school safety training, or a ROTC activity or
another similar use of the object.
      (3)   This section does not apply to a person who conveys or attempts to
convey a handgun into, or possesses a handgun in, a school safety zone if, at
the time of that conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession of the
handgun, all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person does not enter into a school building or onto school
premises and is not at a school activity.
         (b)   The person is carrying a valid concealed handgun license or the
person is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         (c)   The person is in the school safety zone in accordance with 18
U.S.C. § 922(q)(2)(B).
         (d)   The person is not knowingly in a place described in R.C. §
2923.126(B)(1) or (B)(3) through (B)(8).
      (4)   This section does not apply to a person who conveys or attempts to
convey a handgun into, or possesses a handgun in, a school safety zone if at
the time of that conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession of the handgun
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person is carrying a valid concealed handgun license or the
person is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         (b)   The person leaves the handgun in a motor vehicle.
         (c)   The handgun does not leave the motor vehicle.
         (d)   If the person exits the motor vehicle, the person locks the
motor vehicle.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal possession of an
object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety zone. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, illegal possession of an object
indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety zone is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation
of this section, illegal possession of an object indistinguishable from a
firearm in a school safety zone is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   (1)   In addition to any other penalty imposed upon a person who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this section, and subject to
division (D)(2) of this section, if the offender has not attained 19 years of
age, regardless of whether the offender is attending or is enrolled in a school
operated by a board of education or for which the State Board of Education
prescribes minimum standards under R.C. § 3301.07, the court shall impose upon
the offender a class four suspension of the offender’s probationary driver’s
license, restricted license, driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, or probationary commercial driver’s license that
then is in effect from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4) and shall
deny the offender the issuance of any permit or license of that type during the
period of the suspension. If the offender is not a resident of this state, the
court shall impose a class four suspension of the nonresident operating
privilege of the offender from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (2)   If the offender shows good cause why the court should not suspend
one of the types of licenses, permits or privileges specified in division (D)
(1) of this section or deny the issuance of one of the temporary instruction
permits specified in division (D)(1) of this section, the court in its
discretion may choose not to impose the suspension, revocation or denial
required in division (D)(1) of this section, but the court, in its discretion,
instead may require the offender to perform community service for a number of
hours determined by the court.
   (E)   As used in this section, OBJECT THAT IS INDISTINGUISHABLE FROM A
FIREARM means an object made, constructed or altered so that, to a reasonable
person without specialized training in firearms, the object appears to be a
firearm.
(R.C. § 2923.122(C) - (G))
Statutory reference:
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance in a school
safety zone, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122(A) and (B)
§ 137.12 POSSESSION OF DEADLY WEAPON WHILE UNDER DETENTION.
   (A)   As used in this section, DETENTION and DETENTION FACILITY have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 2921.01.
   (B)   No person under detention at a detention facility shall possess a
deadly weapon.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possession of a deadly
weapon while under detention.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) of this section,
possession of a deadly weapon while under detention is a felony to be
prosecuted under state law.
      (2)   If the offender, at the time of the commission of the offense, was
under detention as an alleged or adjudicated delinquent child or unruly child
and if at the time the offender commits the act for which the offender was
under detention it would not be a felony if committed by an adult, possession
of a deadly weapon while under detention is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2923.131)
Statutory reference:
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offenses, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
§ 137.13 CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSES: POSSESSION OF A REVOKED OR SUSPENDED
LICENSE; ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS; POSTING OF SIGNS PROHIBITING POSSESSION.
   (A)   Possession of a revoked or suspended concealed handgun license.
      (1)   No person, except in the performance of official duties, shall
possess a concealed handgun license that was issued and that has been revoked
or suspended.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of possessing a
revoked or suspended concealed handgun license, a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 2923.1211(B), (C))
   (B)   Additional restrictions. Pursuant to R.C. § 2923.126:
      (1)   (a)   A concealed handgun license that is issued under R.C. §
2923.125 shall expire five years after the date of issuance. A licensee who has
been issued a license under that section shall be granted a grace period of 30
days after the licensee’s license expires during which the licensee’s license
remains valid. Except as provided in divisions (B)(2) and (B)(3) of this
section, a licensee who has been issued a concealed handgun license under R.C.
§ 2923.125 or 2923.1213 may carry a concealed handgun anywhere in this state if
the licensee also carries a valid license when the licensee is in actual
possession of a concealed handgun. The licensee shall give notice of any change
in the licensee’s residence address to the sheriff who issued the license
within 45 days after that change.
         (b)   If a licensee is the driver or an occupant of a motor vehicle
that is stopped as the result of a traffic stop or a stop for another law
enforcement purpose and if the licensee is transporting or has a loaded handgun
in the motor vehicle at that time, the licensee shall promptly inform any law
enforcement officer who approaches the vehicle while stopped that the licensee
has been issued a concealed handgun license and that the licensee currently
possesses or has a loaded handgun; the licensee shall not knowingly disregard
or fail to comply with lawful orders of a law enforcement officer given while
the motor vehicle is stopped, knowingly fail to remain in the motor vehicle
while stopped, or knowingly fail to keep the licensee’s hands in plain sight
after any law enforcement officer begins approaching the licensee while stopped
and before the officer leaves, unless directed otherwise by a law enforcement
officer; and the licensee shall not knowingly have contact with the loaded
handgun by touching it with the licensee’s hands or fingers, in any manner in
violation of R.C. § 2923.16(E), after any law enforcement officer begins
approaching the licensee while stopped and before the officer leaves.
Additionally, if a licensee is the driver or an occupant of a commercial motor
vehicle that is stopped by an employee of the motor carrier enforcement unit
for the purposes defined in R.C. § 5503.34 and if the licensee is transporting
or has a loaded handgun in the commercial motor vehicle at that time, the
licensee shall promptly inform the employee of the unit who approaches the
vehicle while stopped that the licensee has been issued a concealed handgun
license and that the licensee currently possesses or has a loaded handgun.
         (c)   If a licensee is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and if
the licensee is carrying a concealed handgun at the time the officer
approaches, the licensee shall promptly inform any law enforcement officer who
approaches the licensee while stopped that the licensee has been issued a
concealed handgun license and that the licensee currently is carrying a
concealed handgun; the licensee shall not knowingly disregard or fail to comply
with lawful orders of a law enforcement officer given while the licensee is
stopped or knowingly fail to keep the licensee’s hands in plain sight after any
law enforcement officer begins approaching the licensee while stopped and
before the officer leaves, unless directed otherwise by a law enforcement
officer; and the licensee shall not knowingly remove, attempt to remove, grasp,
or hold the loaded handgun or knowingly have contact with the loaded handgun by
touching it with the licensee’s hands or fingers, in any manner in violation of
R.C. § 2923.12(B), after any law enforcement officer begins approaching the
licensee while stopped and before the officer leaves.
      (2)   A valid concealed handgun license does not authorize the licensee
to carry a concealed handgun in any manner prohibited under R.C. § 2923.12(B)
or in any manner prohibited under R.C. § 2923.16. A valid license does not
authorize the licensee to carry a concealed handgun into any of the following
places:
         (a)   A police station, sheriff’s office, or state highway patrol
station, premises controlled by the bureau of criminal identification and
investigation; a state correctional institution, jail, workhouse, or other
detention facility; any area of an airport passenger terminal that is beyond a
passenger or property screening checkpoint or to which access is restricted
through security measures by the airport authority or a public agency; or an
institution that is maintained, operated, managed, and governed pursuant to
R.C. § 5119.14(A) or R.C. § 5123.03(A)(1);
         (b)   A school safety zone if the licensee’s carrying the concealed
handgun is in violation of R.C. § 2923.122;
         (c)   A courthouse or another building or structure in which a
courtroom is located if the licensee’s carrying the concealed handgun is in
violation of R.C. § 2923.123;
         (d)   Any premises or open air arena for which a D permit has been
issued under R.C. Chapter 4303 if the licensee’s carrying the concealed handgun
is in violation of R.C. § 2923.121;
         (e)   Any premises owned or leased by any public or private college,
university, or other institution of higher education, unless the handgun is in
a locked motor vehicle or the licensee is in the immediate process of placing
the handgun in a locked motor vehicle or unless the licensee is carrying the
concealed handgun pursuant to a written policy, rule, or other authorization
that is adopted by the institution’s board of trustees or other governing body
and that authorizes specific individuals or classes of individuals to carry a
concealed handgun on the premises;
         (f)   Any church, synagogue, mosque, or other place of worship, unless
the church, synagogue, mosque, or other place of worship posts or permits
otherwise;
         (g)   Any building that is a government facility of this state or a
political subdivision of this state and that is not a building that is used
primarily as a shelter, restroom, parking facility for motor vehicles, or rest
facility and is not a courthouse or other building or structure in which a
courtroom is located that is subject to division (B)(2)(c) of this section,
unless the governing body with authority over the building has enacted a
statute, ordinance, or policy that permits a licensee to carry a concealed
handgun into the building;
         (h)   A place in which federal law prohibits the carrying of handguns.
      (3)   (a)   Nothing in this division (B) shall negate or restrict a rule,
policy, or practice of a private employer that is not a private college,
university, or other institution of higher education concerning or prohibiting
the presence of firearms on the private employer’s premises or property,
including motor vehicles owned by the private employer. Nothing in this
division (B) shall require a private employer of that nature to adopt a rule,
policy, or practice concerning or prohibiting the presence of firearms on the
private employer’s premises or property, including motor vehicles owned by the
private employer.
         (b)   1.   A private employer shall be immune from liability in a
civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that
allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto the
premises or property of the private employer, including motor vehicles owned by
the private employer, unless the private employer acted with malicious purpose.
A private employer is immune from liability in a civil action for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by or related to
the private employer’s decision to permit a licensee to bring, or prohibit a
licensee from bringing, a handgun onto the premises or property of the private
employer.
            2.   A political subdivision shall be immune from liability in a
civil action, to the extent and in the manner provided in R.C. Chapter 2744,
for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused
by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto any premises or property
owned, leased, or otherwise under the control of the political subdivision. As
used in this division, POLITICAL SUBDIVISION has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2744.01.
            3.    An institution of higher education shall be immune from
liability in a civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or
property that allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a
handgun onto the premises of the institution, including motor vehicles owned by
the institution, unless the institution acted with malicious purpose. An
institution of higher education is immune from liability in a civil action for
any injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by
or related to the institution’s decision to permit a licensee or class of
licensees to bring a handgun onto the premises of the institution.
            4.   A nonprofit corporation shall be immune from liability in a
civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that
allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto the
premises of the nonprofit corporation, including any motor vehicle owned by the
nonprofit corporation, or to any event organized by the nonprofit corporation,
unless the nonprofit corporation acted with malicious purpose. A nonprofit
corporation is immune from liability in a civil action for any injury, death,
or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by or related to the
nonprofit corporation's decision to permit a licensee to bring a handgun onto
the premises of the nonprofit corporation or to any event organized by the
nonprofit corporation.
         (c)   1.   a.   Except as provided in division (B)(3)(c)2. of this
section and R.C. § 2923.1214, the owner or person in control of private land or
premises, and a private person or entity leasing land or premises owned by the
state, the United States, or a political subdivision of the state or the United
States, may post a sign in a conspicuous location on that land or on those
premises prohibiting persons from carrying firearms or concealed firearms on or
onto that land or those premises. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, a person who knowingly violates a posted prohibition of that nature
is guilty of criminal trespass in violation of R.C. § 2911.21(A)(4) and is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If a person knowingly violates a
posted prohibition of that nature and the posted land or premises primarily was
a parking lot or other parking facility, the person is not guilty of criminal
trespass under R.C. § 2911.21 or under any other criminal law of this state or
criminal law, ordinance, or resolution of a political subdivision of this
state, and instead is subject only to a civil cause of action for trespass
based on the violation.
               b.   If a person knowingly violates a posted prohibition of the
nature described in this division and the posted land or premises is a child
day-care center, type A family day-care home, or type B family day-care home,
unless the person is a licensee who resides in a type A family day-care home or
type B family day-care home, the person is guilty of aggravated trespass in
violation of R.C. § 2911.211. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the person
previously has been convicted of a violation of this division or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any offense of
violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is either loaded or for
which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the weapon involved is
dangerous ordnance, the offender is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
            2.   A landlord may not prohibit or restrict a tenant who is a
licensee and who on or after September 9, 2008 enters into a rental agreement
with the landlord for the use of residential premises, and the tenant’s guest
while the tenant is present, from lawfully carrying or possessing a handgun on
those residential premises.
            3.   As used in division (B)(3)(c) of this section:
               LANDLORD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
               RENTAL AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
               RESIDENTIAL PREMISES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01,
except the term does not include a dwelling unit that is owned or operated by a
college or university.
               TENANT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
      (4)   A person who holds a valid concealed handgun license issued by
another state that is recognized by the Attorney General pursuant to a
reciprocity agreement entered into pursuant to R.C. § 109.69 or a person who
holds a valid concealed handgun license under the circumstances described in
R.C. § 109.69(B) has the same right to carry a concealed handgun in this state
as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license under R.C. § 2923.125
and is subject to the same restrictions that apply to a person who carries a
license issued under that section.
      (5)   (a)   A peace officer has the same right to carry a concealed
handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license
under R.C. § 2923.125, provided that the officer when carrying a concealed
handgun under authority of this division is carrying validating identification.
For purposes of reciprocity with other states, a peace officer shall be
considered to be a licensee in this state.
         (b)   An active duty member of the armed forces of the United States
who is carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of
successful completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training
requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1) has the same right to carry a
concealed handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun
license under R.C. § 2923.125 and is subject to the same restrictions as
specified in this division (B).
         (c)   A tactical medical professional who is qualified to carry
firearms while on duty under R.C. § 109.771 has the same right to carry a
concealed handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun
license under R.C. § 2923.125.
      (6)   (a)   A qualified retired peace officer who possesses a retired
peace officer identification card issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(b) of this
section and a valid firearms requalification certification issued pursuant to
division (B)(6)(c) of this section has the same right to carry a concealed
handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license
under R.C. § 2923.125 and is subject to the same restrictions that apply to a
person who carries a license issued under that section. For purposes of
reciprocity with other states, a qualified retired peace officer who possesses
a retired peace officer identification card issued pursuant to division (B)(6)
(b) of this section and a valid firearms requalification certification issued
pursuant to division (B)(6)(c) of this section shall be considered to be a
licensee in this state.
         (b)   1.   Each public agency of this state or of a political
subdivision of this state that is served by one or more peace officers shall
issue a retired peace officer identification card to any person who retired
from service as a peace officer with that agency, if the issuance is in
accordance with the agency’s policies and procedures and if the person, with
respect to the person’s service with that agency, satisfies all of the
following:
               a.   The person retired in good standing from service as a peace
officer with the public agency, and the retirement was not for reasons of
mental instability.
               b.   Before retiring from service as a peace officer with that
agency, the person was authorized to engage in or supervise the prevention,
detection, investigation, or prosecution of, or the incarceration of any person
for, any violation of law and the person had statutory powers of arrest.
               c.   At the time of the person’s retirement as a peace officer
with that agency, the person was trained and qualified to carry firearms in the
performance of the peace officer’s duties.
               d.   Before retiring from service as a peace officer with that
agency, the person was regularly employed as a peace officer for an aggregate
of 15 years or more, or, in the alternative, the person retired from service as
a peace officer with that agency, after completing any applicable probationary
period of that service, due to a service-connected disability, as determined by
the agency.
            2.   A retired peace officer identification card issued to a person
under division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section shall identify the person by name,
contain a photograph of the person, identify the public agency of this state or
of the political subdivision of this state from which the person retired as a
peace officer and that is issuing the identification card, and specify that the
person retired in good standing from service as a peace officer with the
issuing public agency and satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)
(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(B)1.d. of this section. In addition to the required content
specified in this division, a retired peace officer identification card issued
to a person under division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section may include the firearms
requalification certification described in division (B)(6)(c) of this section,
and if the identification card includes that certification, the identification
card shall serve as the firearms requalification certification for the retired
peace officer. If the issuing public agency issues credentials to active law
enforcement officers who serve the agency, the agency may comply with division
(B)(6)(b)1. of this section by issuing the same credentials to persons who
retired from service as a peace officer with the agency and who satisfy the
criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section,
provided that the credentials so issued to retired peace officers are stamped
with the word “RETIRED”.
            3.   A public agency of this state or of a political subdivision of
this state may charge persons who retired from service as a peace officer with
the agency a reasonable fee for issuing to the person a retired peace officer
identification card pursuant to division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section.
         (c)   1.   If a person retired from service as a peace officer with a
public agency of this state or of a political subdivision of this state and the
person satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)
(b)1.d. of this section, the public agency may provide the retired peace
officer with the opportunity to attend a firearms requalification program that
is approved for purposes of firearms requalification required under R.C. §
109.801. The retired peace officer may be required to pay the cost of the
course.
            2.   If a retired peace officer who satisfies the criteria set
forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section attends a
firearms requalification program that is approved for purposes of firearms
requalification required under R.C. § 109.801, the retired peace officer’s
successful completion of the firearms requalification program requalifies the
retired peace officer for purposes of division (B)(6) of this section for five
years from the date on which the program was successfully completed, and the
requalification is valid during that five-year period. If a retired peace
officer who satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)
(6)(b)1.d. of this section satisfactorily completes such a firearms
requalification program, the retired peace officer shall be issued a firearms
requalification certification that identifies the retired peace officer by
name, identifies the entity that taught the program, specifies that the retired
peace officer successfully completed the program, specifies the date on which
the course was successfully completed, and specifies that the requalification
is valid for five years from that date of successful completion. The firearms
requalification certification for a retired peace officer may be included in
the retired peace officer identification card issued to the retired peace
officer under division (B)(6)(b) of this section.
            3.   A retired peace officer who attends a firearms requalification
program that is approved for purposes of firearms requalification required
under R.C. § 109.801 may be required to pay the cost of the program.
      (7)   As used in division (B) of this section:
         GOVERNING BODY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 154.01.
         GOVERNMENT FACILITY OF THIS STATE OR A POLITICAL SUBDIVISION OF THIS
STATE. Means any of the following:
            1.   A building or part of a building that is owned or leased by
the government of this state or a political subdivision of this state and where
employees of the government of this state or the political subdivision
regularly are present for the purpose of performing their official duties as
employees of the state or political subdivision;
            2.   The office of a deputy registrar serving pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 4503 that is used to perform deputy registrar functions.
         NONPROFIT CORPORATION. Means any private organization that is exempt
from federal income taxation pursuant to subsection 501(a) and described in
subsection 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code.
         QUALIFIED RETIRED PEACE OFFICER. Means a person who satisfies all of
the following:
            1.   The person satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)
(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section.
            2.   The person is not under the influence of alcohol or another
intoxicating or hallucinatory drug or substance.
            3.   The person is not prohibited by federal law from receiving
firearms.
         RETIRED PEACE OFFICER IDENTIFICATION CARD. Means an identification
card that is issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(b) of this section to a person
who is a retired peace officer.
         TACTICAL MEDICAL PROFESSIONAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
109.71.
         VALIDATING IDENTIFICATION. Means photographic identification issued by
the agency for which an individual serves as a peace officer that identifies
the individual as a peace officer of the agency.
(R.C. § 2923.126)
   (C)   Posting of signs prohibiting possession. Each person, board, or entity
that owns or controls any place or premises identified in R.C. § 2923.126(B) as
a place into which a valid license does not authorize the licensee to carry a
concealed handgun, or a designee of such a person, board, or entity, shall post
in the following one or more conspicuous locations in the premises a sign that
contains a statement in substantially the following form: “Unless otherwise
authorized by law, pursuant to the Ohio Revised Code, no person shall knowingly
possess, have under the person’s control, convey, or attempt to convey a deadly
weapon or dangerous ordnance onto these premises.”
(R.C. § 2923.1212)
§ 137.14 DEFACED FIREARMS.
   (A)   No person shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Change, alter, remove, or obliterate the name of the manufacturer,
model, manufacturer’s serial number, or other mark of identification on a
firearm.
      (2)   Possess a firearm knowing or having reasonable cause to believe
that the name of the manufacturer, model, manufacturer’s serial number, or
other mark of identification on the firearm has been changed, altered, removed,
or obliterated.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of
defacing identification marks of a firearm. Except as otherwise provided in
this division, defacing identification marks of a firearm is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A)(1) of this section, defacing
identification marks of a firearm is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of
possessing a defaced firearm. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
possessing a defaced firearm is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
division (A)(2) of this section, possessing a defaced firearm is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any firearm on which no
manufacturer’s serial number was inscribed at the time of its manufacture.
(R.C. § 2923.201)
CHAPTER 138: DRUG OFFENSES
Section
   
138.01   Definitions
   
138.02   Trafficking in controlled substances; gift of marihuana
   
138.03   Drug possession offenses
   
138.04   Possessing drug abuse instruments
   
138.05   Permitting drug abuse
   
138.06   Illegal cultivation of marihuana
   
138.07   Abusing harmful intoxicants
   
138.08   Illegal dispensing of drug samples
   
138.09   Federal prosecution bar to municipal prosecution
   
138.10   Nitrous oxide: improper dispensing or distribution; possession in a
motor vehicle
   
138.11   Laboratory report required
   
138.12   Counterfeit controlled substances
   
138.13   Use, possession, or sale of drug paraphernalia
   
138.14   Controlled substance or prescription labels
   
138.15   Possession, sale and disposal of hypodermics
   
138.16   Controlled substance schedules
   
138.17   Unlawful furnishing of prescription to enable persons to be issued
handicapped parking placards or license plates
   
138.18   Sale of pseudoephedrine
   
138.19   Sale of pure caffeine product
   
138.20   Sale of dextromethorphan
Statutory reference:
   Administration of epinephrine, exemption from prosecution, see R.C. §
2925.64
   Controlled substances, regulation of pharmacists and other professionals,
see R.C. Chapters 3719 and 4729
   Conviction of professionally licensed persons to be reported to licensing
board, see R.C. § 2925.38
   Criminal and civil forfeiture of property for felony drug abuse offenses,
see R.C. Chapter 2981
   Destruction of chemicals used to produce methamphetamine; preservation of
samples, see R.C. § 2925.52
   Driver’s license suspension after certain drug convictions, see R.C. §
4510.07
   Tampering with drugs, felony offense, see R.C. § 2925.24
§ 138.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words,
terms and phrases and their derivatives used in this chapter which are not
defined in this section shall have the meanings given to them in the Ohio
Revised Code.
   ADMINISTER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   ADULTERATE. To cause a drug to be adulterated as described in R.C. §
3715.63.
   BULK AMOUNT. Of a controlled substance means any of the following:
      (1)   For any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance included in
Schedule I, Schedule II, or Schedule III, with the exception of any controlled
substance analog, marihuana, cocaine, L.S.D., heroin, any fentanyl-related
compound, and hashish and except as provided in division (2), (5), or (6) of
this definition, whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   An amount equal to or exceeding ten grams or 25 unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule I opiate or opium derivative;
         (b)   An amount equal to or exceeding ten grams of a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of raw or gum
opium;
         (c)   An amount equal to or exceeding 30 grams or ten unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule I hallucinogen other than tetrahydrocannabinol or lysergic acid
amide, or a Schedule I stimulant or depressant;
         (d)   An amount equal to or exceeding 20 grams or five times the
maximum daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard
pharmaceutical reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule II opiate or opium
derivative;
         (e)   An amount equal to or exceeding five grams or ten unit doses of
a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount
of phencyclidine;
         (f)   An amount equal to or exceeding 120 grams or 30 times the
maximum daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard
pharmaceutical reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule II stimulant that is in
a final dosage form manufactured by a person authorized by the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended) and the federal
drug abuse control laws, as defined in this section, that is or contains any
amount of a Schedule II depressant substance or a Schedule II hallucinogenic
substance;
         (g)   An amount equal to or exceeding three grams of a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule
II stimulant, or any of its salts or isomers, that is not in a final dosage
form manufactured by a person authorized by the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended) and the federal drug abuse
control laws;
      (2)   An amount equal to or exceeding 120 grams or 30 times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III or IV substance other than an anabolic
steroid or a Schedule III opiate or opium derivative;
      (3)   An amount equal to or exceeding 20 grams or five times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III opiate or opium derivative;
      (4)   An amount equal to or exceeding 250 milliliters or 250 grams of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule V substance;
      (5)   An amount equal to or exceeding 200 solid dosage units, 16 grams,
or 16 milliliters of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III anabolic steroid;
      (6)   For any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is a
combination of a fentanyl- related compound and any other compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V,
if the defendant is charged with a violation of R.C. § 2925.11 and the
sentencing provisions set forth in R.C. § 2925.11(C)(10)(b) and (C)(11) will
not apply regarding the defendant and the violation, the bulk amount of the
controlled substance for purposes of the violation is the amount specified in
division (1), (2), (3), (4), or (5) of this definition for the other Schedule
III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V controlled substance that is combined with the
fentanyl-related compound.
   CERTIFIED GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE. A duly constituted and organized committee of
the Ohio State Bar Association or of one or more local bar associations of the
state that complies with the criteria set forth in Rule V, Section 6 of the
Rules for the Government of the Bar of Ohio.
   COCAINE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A cocaine salt, isomer, or derivative, a salt of a cocaine isomer
or derivative, or the base form of cocaine.
      (2)   Coca leaves or a salt, compound, derivative, or preparation of coca
leaves, including ecgonine, a salt, isomer, or derivative of ecgonine, or a
salt of an isomer or derivative of ecgonine.
      (3)   A salt, compound, derivative, or preparation of a substance
identified in division (1) or (2) of this definition that is chemically
equivalent to or identical with any of those substances, except that the
substances shall not include decocainized coca leaves or extraction of coca
leaves if the extractions do not contain cocaine or ecgonine.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A JUVENILE. An offense is “committed in the
vicinity of a juvenile” if the offender commits the offense within 100 feet of
a juvenile or within the view of a juvenile, regardless of whether the offender
knows the age of the juvenile, whether the offender knows the offense is being
committed within 100 feet of or within view of the juvenile, or whether the
juvenile actually views the commission of the offense.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SCHOOL. An offense is “committed in the
vicinity of a school” if the offender commits the offense on school premises,
in a school building, or within 1,000 feet of the boundaries of any school
premises, regardless of whether the offender knows the offense is being
committed on school premises, in a school building, or within 1,000 feet of the
boundaries of any school premises.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE ANALOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   COUNTERFEIT CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any drug that bears, or whose container or label bears, a
trademark, trade name, or other identifying mark used without authorization of
the owner of rights to the trademark, trade name, or identifying mark.
      (2)   Any unmarked or unlabeled substance that is represented to be a
controlled substance manufactured, processed, packed, or distributed by a
person other than the person that manufactured, processed, packed, or
distributed it.
      (3)   Any substance that is represented to be a controlled substance but
is not a controlled substance or is a different controlled substance.
      (4)   Any substance other than a controlled substance that a reasonable
person would believe to be a controlled substance because of its similarity in
shape, size, and color, or its markings, labeling, packaging, distribution, or
the price for which it is sold or offered for sale.
   CULTIVATE. Includes planting, watering, fertilizing or tilling.
   DANGEROUS DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DECEPTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   DISCIPLINARY COUNSEL. The disciplinary counsel appointed by the Board of
Commissioners on Grievances and Discipline of the Ohio Supreme Court under the
Rules for the Government of the Bar of Ohio.
   DISPENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   DISTRIBUTE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2913.02(A) that constitutes theft of drugs,
or any violation of R.C. § 2925.02, 2925.03, 2925.04, 2925.041, 2925.05,
2925.06, 2925.11, 2925.12, 2925.13, 2925.22, 2925.23, 2925.24, 2925.31,
2925.32, 2925.36, or 2925.37.
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former law of a municipality, state
or any other state or of the United States, that is substantially equivalent to
any section listed in division (1) of this definition.
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former law of a municipality, state
or any other state, or of the United States, of which planting, cultivating,
harvesting, processing, making, manufacturing, producing, shipping,
transporting, delivering, acquiring, possessing, storing, distributing,
dispensing, selling, inducing another to use, administering to another, using,
or otherwise dealing with a controlled substance is an element.
      (4)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing or attempting to commit, any offense under division (1), (2), or (3)
of this definition.
   DRUG DEPENDENT PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
   DRUG OF ABUSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
   FELONY DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Any drug abuse offense that would constitute a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state, or the United States.
   FENTANYL-RELATED COMPOUND. Any of the following:
      (1)   Fentanyl;
      (2)   Alpha-methylfentanyl (N-[1-(alpha-methyl-beta-phenyl)ethyl-4-
piperidyl] propionanilide; 1-(1-methyl-2-phenylethyl)-4-(N-propanilido)
piperidine);
      (3)   Alpha-methylthiofentanyl (N-[1-methyl-2-(2-thienyl)ethyl-4-
piperidinyl]-N- phenylpropanamide);
      (4)   Beta-hydroxyfentanyl (N-[1-(2-hydroxy-2-phenethyl-4-piperidinyl]-N-
phenylpropanamide);
      (5)   Beta-hydroxy-3-methylfentanyl (other name: N-[1-(2-hydroxy-2-
phenethyl)-3-methyl-4- piperidinyl]-N-phenylpropanamide);
      (6)   3-methylfentanyl (N-[3-methyl-1-(2-phenylethyl)-4-piperidyl]-N-
phenylpropanamide);
      (7)   3-methylthiofentanyl (N-[3-methyl-1-[2-(thienyl)ethyl]-4-
piperidinyl]-– phenylpropanamide);
      (8)   Para-fluorofentanyl (N-(4-fluorophenyl)-N-[1-(2-phenethyl)-4-
piperidinyl]propanamide;
      (9)   Thiofentanyl (N-phenyl-N-[1-(2-thienyl)ethyl-4-piperidinyl]-
propanamide;
      (10)   Alfentanil;
      (11)   Carfentanil;
      (12)   Remifentanil;
      (13)   Sufentanil;
      (14)   Acetyl-alpha-methylfentanyl (N-[1-(1-methyl-2-phenethyl)-4-
piperidinyl]-N- phenylacetamide); and
      (15)   Any compound that meets all of the following fentanyl
pharmacophore requirements to bind at the mu receptor, as identified by a
report from an established forensic laboratory, including acetylfentanyl,
furanylfentanyl, valerylfentanyl, butyrylfentanyl, isobutyrylfentanyl, 4-
methoxybutyrylfentanyl, para-fluorobutyrylfentanyl, acrylfentanyl, and ortho-
fluorofentanyl:
         (a)   A chemical scaffold consisting of both of the following:
            1.   A five, six, or seven member ring structure containing a
nitrogen, whether or not further substituted;
            2.   An attached nitrogen to the ring, whether or not that nitrogen
is enclosed in a ring structure, including an attached aromatic ring or other
lipophilic group to that nitrogen.
         (b)   A polar functional group attached to the chemical scaffold,
including but not limited to a hydroxyl, ketone, amide, or ester;
         (c)   An alkyl or aryl substitution off the ring nitrogen of the
chemical scaffold; and
         (d)   The compound has not been approved for medical use by the United
States food and drug administration.
   HARMFUL INTOXICANT. Does not include beer or intoxicating liquor, but means
any of the following:
      (1)   Any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance the gas, fumes, or
vapor of which when inhaled can induce intoxication, excitement, giddiness,
irrational behavior, depression, stupefaction, paralysis, unconsciousness,
asphyxiation, or other harmful physiological effects, and includes but is not
limited to any of the following:
         (a)   Any volatile organic solvent, plastic cement, model cement,
fingernail polish remover, lacquer thinner, cleaning fluid, gasoline, or other
preparation containing a volatile organic solvent.
         (b)   Any aerosol propellant.
         (c)   Any fluorocarbon refrigerant.
         (d)   Any anesthetic gas.
      (2)   Gamma Butyrolactone;
      (3)   1,4 Butanediol.
   HASHISH.
      (1)   A resin or a preparation of a resin to which both of the following
apply:
         (a)   It is contained in or derived from any part of the plant of the
genus cannabis, whether in solid form or in a liquid concentrate, liquid
extract, or liquid distillate form.
         (b)   It has a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of more than
0.3%.
      (2)   The term does not include a hemp byproduct in the possession of a
licensed hemp processor under R.C. Chapter 928, provided that the hemp
byproduct is being produced, stored, and disposed of in accordance with rules
adopted under R.C. § 928.03.
   HYPODERMIC. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   JUVENILE. A person under 18 years of age.
   LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS. Has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   L.S.D. Lysergic acid diethylamide.
   MAJOR DRUG OFFENDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   MANDATORY PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   MANUFACTURE. To plant, cultivate, harvest, process, make, prepare, or
otherwise engage in any part of the production of a drug, by propagation,
extraction, chemical synthesis, or compounding, or any combination of the same,
and includes packaging, repackaging, labeling, and other activities incident to
production.
   MANUFACTURER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01..
   MARIHUANA. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01, except that it does
not include hashish.
   METHAMPHETAMINE. Methamphetamine, any salt, isomer, or salt of an isomer of
methamphetamine, or any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance containing
methamphetamine or any salt, isomer, or salt of an isomer of methamphetamine.
   MINOR DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSE. Either of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2925.11 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996,
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   A violation of R.C. § 2925.11 as it exists on and after July 1,
1996, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that is a misdemeanor
or a felony of the fifth degree.
   OFFICIAL WRITTEN ORDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PHARMACIST. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PHARMACY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   POSSESS or POSSESSION. Having control over a thing or substance but may not
be inferred solely from mere access to the thing or substance through ownership
or occupation of the premises upon which the thing or substance is found.
   PRESCRIPTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   PRESUMPTION FOR A PRISON TERM or PRESUMPTION THAT A PRISON TERM SHALL BE
IMPOSED. A presumption as described in R.C. § 2929.13(D) that a prison term is
a necessary sanction for a felony in order to comply with the purposes and
principles of sentencing under R.C. § 2929.11.
   PROFESSIONAL LICENSE. Any license, permit, certificate, registration,
qualification, admission, temporary license, temporary permit, temporary
certificate, or temporary registration that is described in R.C. § 2925.01(W)
(1) through (W)(37) and that qualifies a person as a professionally licensed
person.
   PROFESSIONALLY LICENSED PERSON. Any of the following:
      (1)   A person who has received a certificate or temporary certificate as
a certified public accountant or who has registered as a public accountant
under R.C. Chapter 4701 and who holds an Ohio permit issued under that chapter;
      (2)   A person who holds a certificate of qualification to practice
architecture issued or renewed and registered under R.C. Chapter 4703;
      (3)   A person who is registered as a landscape architect under R.C.
Chapter 4703 or who holds a permit as a landscape architect issued under that
chapter;
      (4)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4707;
      (5)   A person who has been issued a certificate of registration as a
registered barber under R.C. Chapter 4709;
      (6)   A person licensed and regulated to engage in the business of a debt
pooling company by a legislative authority, under authority of R.C. Chapter
4710;
      (7)   A person who has been issued a cosmetologist’s license, hair
designer’s license, manicurist’s license, esthetician’s license, natural hair
stylist’s license, advanced cosmetologist’s license, advanced hair designer’s
license, advanced manicurist’s license, advanced esthetician’s license,
advanced natural hair stylist’s license, cosmetology instructor’s license, hair
design instructor’s license, manicurist instructor’s license, esthetics
instructor’s license, natural hair style instructor’s license, independent
contractor’s license, or tanning facility permit under R.C. Chapter 4713;
      (8)   A person who has been issued a license to practice dentistry, a
general anesthesia permit, a conscious sedation permit, a limited resident’s
license, a limited teaching license, a dental hygienist’s license, or a dental
hygienist’s teacher’s certificate under R.C. Chapter 4715;
      (9)   A person who has been issued an embalmer’s license, a funeral
director’s license, a funeral home license, or a crematory license, or who has
been registered for an embalmer’s or funeral director’s apprenticeship under
R.C. Chapter 4717;
      (10)   A person who has been licensed as a registered nurse or practical
nurse, or who has been issued a certificate for the practice of nurse-midwifery
under R.C. Chapter 4723;
      (11)   A person who has been licensed to practice optometry or to engage
in optical dispensing under R.C. Chapter 4725;
      (12)   A person licensed to act as a pawnbroker under R.C. Chapter 4727;
      (13)   A person licensed to act as a precious metals dealer under R.C.
Chapter 4728;
      (14)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 as a pharmacist or
pharmacy intern or registered under that chapter as a registered pharmacy
technician, certified pharmacy technician, or pharmacy technician trainee;
      (15)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 as a manufacturer of
dangerous drugs, outsourcing facility, third-party logistics provider,
repackager of dangerous drugs, wholesale distributor of dangerous drugs, or
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs;
      (16)   A person who is authorized to practice as a physician assistant
under R.C. Chapter 4730;
      (17)   A person who has been issued a license to practice medicine and
surgery, osteopathic medicine and surgery, or podiatric medicine and surgery
under R.C. Chapter 4731 or has been issued a certificate to practice a limited
branch of medicine under that chapter;
      (18)   A person licensed as a psychologist or school psychologist under
R.C. Chapter 4732;
      (19)   A person registered to practice the profession of engineering or
surveying under R.C. Chapter 4733;
      (20)   A person who has been issued a license to practice chiropractic
under R.C. Chapter 4734;
      (21)   A person licensed to act as a real estate broker or real estate
salesperson under R.C. Chapter 4735;
      (22)   A person registered as a registered environmental health
specialist under R.C. Chapter 4736;
      (23)   A person licensed to operate or maintain a junkyard under R.C.
Chapter 4737;
      (24)   A person who has been issued a motor vehicle salvage dealer’s
license under R.C. Chapter 4738;
      (25)   A person who has been licensed to act as a steam engineer under
R.C. Chapter 4739;
      (26)   A person who has been issued a license or temporary permit to
practice veterinary medicine or any of its branches, or who is registered as a
graduate animal technician under R.C. Chapter 4741;
      (27)   A person who has been issued a hearing aid dealer’s or fitter’s
license or trainee permit under R.C. Chapter 4747;
      (28)   A person who has been issued a class A, class B, or class C
license or who has been registered as an investigator or security guard
employee under R.C. Chapter 4749;
      (29)   A person licensed to practice as a nursing home administrator
under R.C. Chapter 4751;
      (30)   A person licensed to practice as a speech-language pathologist or
audiologist under R.C. Chapter 4753;
      (31)   A person issued a license as an occupational therapist or physical
therapist under R.C. Chapter 4755;
      (32)   A person who is licensed as a licensed professional clinical
counselor, licensed professional counselor, social worker, independent social
worker, independent marriage and family therapist, or marriage and family
therapist, or registered as a social work assistant under R.C. Chapter 4757;
      (33)   A person issued a license to practice dietetics under R.C. Chapter
4759;
      (34)   A person who has been issued a license or limited permit to
practice respiratory therapy under R.C. Chapter 4761;
      (35)   A person who has been issued a real estate appraiser certificate
under R.C. Chapter 4763;
      (36)   A person who has been issued a home inspector license under R.C.
Chapter 4764;
      (37)   A person who has been admitted to the bar by order of the Ohio
Supreme Court in compliance with its prescribed and published rules.
   PUBLIC PREMISES. Any hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall, or other
place of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort.
   SALE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   SAMPLE DRUG. A drug or pharmaceutical preparation that would be hazardous to
health or safety if used without the supervision of a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs, or a drug of abuse, and that, at
one time, had been placed in a container plainly marked as a sample by a
manufacturer.
   SCHEDULE I, SCHEDULE II, SCHEDULE III, SCHEDULE IV or SCHEDULE V. Have the
same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   SCHOOL. Any school operated by a board of education, any community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314, or any nonpublic school for which the
State Board of Education prescribes minimum standards under R.C. § 3301.07,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training
provided by the school is being conducted at the time a criminal offense is
committed.
   SCHOOL BUILDING. Any building in which any of the instruction,
extracurricular activities, or training provided by a school is conducted,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training
provided by the school is being conducted in the school building at the time a
criminal offense is committed.
   SCHOOL PREMISES. Either of the following:
      (1)   The parcel of real property on which any school is situated,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training
provided by the school is being conducted on the premises at the time a
criminal offense is committed.
      (2)   Any other parcel of real property that is owned or leased by a
board of education of a school, the governing authority of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314, or the governing body of a nonpublic
school for which the State Board of Education prescribes minimum standards
under R.C. § 3301.07 and on which some of the instruction, extracurricular
activities, or training of the school is conducted, whether or not any
instruction, extracurricular activities, or training provided by the school is
being conducted on the parcel of real property at the time a criminal offense
is committed.
   STANDARD PHARMACEUTICAL REFERENCE MANUAL. The current edition, with
cumulative changes if any, of references that are approved by the State Board
of Pharmacy.
   UNIT DOSE. An amount or unit or a compound, mixture, or preparation
containing a controlled substance that is separately identifiable and in a form
that indicates that it is the amount or unit by which the controlled substance
is separately administered to or taken by an individual.
   WHOLESALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
(R.C.§ 2925.01)
§ 138.02 TRAFFICKING IN CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES; GIFT OF MARIHUANA.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Sell or offer to sell a controlled substance or a controlled
substance analog;
      (2)   Prepare for shipment, ship, transport, deliver, prepare for
distribution, or distribute a controlled substance or a controlled substance
analog, when the offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
controlled substance or a controlled substance analog is intended for sale or
resale by the offender or another person.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Manufacturers, licensed health professionals authorized to
prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, and other persons whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731,
and 4741.
      (2)   If the offense involves an anabolic steroid, any person who is
conducting or participating in a research project involving the use of an
anabolic steroid if the project has been approved by the United States Food and
Drug Administration.
      (3)   Any person who sells, offers for sale, prescribes, dispenses, or
administers for livestock or other nonhuman species an anabolic steroid that is
expressly intended for administration through implants to livestock or other
nonhuman species and approved for that purpose under the “Federal Food, Drug
and Cosmetic Act” (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended), and is sold, offered
for sale, prescribed, dispensed, or administered for that purpose in accordance
with that Act.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of the
following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (C)(2) and (C)(3) of this
section, trafficking in controlled substances is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the offense
involves a gift of 20 grams or less of marihuana, trafficking in marihuana is a
minor misdemeanor upon a first offense and a misdemeanor of the third degree
upon a subsequent offense. If the offense involves a gift of 20 grams or less
of marihuana and if the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school or in
the vicinity of a juvenile, trafficking in marihuana is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl-related compound
and marihuana, one of the following applies:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of trafficking in marihuana and shall be
punished under division (C)(2) of this section. The offender is not guilty of
trafficking in a fentanyl-related compound and shall not be charged with,
convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.03(C)(9) for trafficking in a
fentanyl-related compound.
         (b)   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of trafficking in a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.03(C)(9).
   (D)   As used in this section, “drug” includes any substance that is
represented to be a drug.
(R.C. § 2925.03(A) - (C), (I))
Statutory reference:
   Felony drug trafficking offenses, see R.C. § 2925.03(C)
§ 138.03 DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly obtain, possess, or use a controlled
substance or a controlled substance analog.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   Manufacturers, licensed health professionals authorized to
prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, and other persons whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731,
and 4741.
         (b)   If the offense involves an anabolic steroid, any person who is
conducting or participating in a research project involving the use of an
anabolic steroid if the project has been approved by the United States Food and
Drug Administration.
         (c)   Any person who sells, offers for sale, prescribes, dispenses, or
administers for livestock or other nonhuman species an anabolic steroid that is
expressly intended for administration through implants to livestock or other
nonhuman species and approved for that purpose under the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act, being 21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., and is sold, offered for
sale, prescribed, dispensed, or administered for that purpose in accordance
with that Act.
         (d)   Any person who obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs if the prescription was issued for a legitimate medical purpose and not
altered, forged, or obtained through deception or commission of a theft
offense. As used in this division (B)(1)(d), “deception” and “theft offense”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (2)   (a)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section:
            COMMUNITY ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 5119.01.
            COMMUNITY CONTROL SANCTION. Has the same meanings as in R.C. §
2929.01
            DRUG TREATMENT PROGRAM. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 2929.01.
            HEALTH CARE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2919.16.
            MINOR DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSE. A violation of this section or R.C.
§ 2925.11 that is a misdemeanor or a felony of the fifth degree.
            PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
            POST-RELEASE CONTROL SANCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2967.28.
            PUBLIC AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2930.01.
            QUALIFIED INDIVIDUAL. A person who is not on community control or
post- release control and is a person acting in good faith who seeks or obtains
medical assistance for another person who is experiencing a drug overdose, a
person who experiences a drug overdose and who seeks medical assistance for
that overdose, or a person who is the subject of another person seeking or
obtaining medical assistance for that overdose as described in division (B)(2)
(b) of this section.
            SEEK OR OBTAIN MEDICAL ASSISTANCE. Includes, but is not limited to
making a 9-1-1 call, contacting in person or by telephone call an on-duty peace
officer, or transporting or presenting a person to a health care facility.
         (b)   Subject to division (B)(2)(f) of this section, a qualified
individual shall not be arrested, charged, prosecuted, convicted, or penalized
pursuant to this chapter for a minor drug possession offense if all of the
following apply:
            1.   The evidence of the obtaining, possession, or use of the
controlled substance or controlled substance analog that would be the basis of
the offense was obtained as a result of the qualified individual seeking the
medical assistance or experiencing an overdose and needing medical assistance.
            2.   Subject to division (B)(2)(g) of this section, within 30 days
after seeking or obtaining the medical assistance, the qualified individual
seeks and obtains a screening and receives a referral for treatment from a
community addiction services provider or a properly credentialed addiction
treatment professional.
            3.   Subject to division (B)(2)(g) of this section, the qualified
individual who obtains a screening and receives a referral for treatment under
division (B)(2)(b)2. of this section, upon the request of any prosecuting
attorney, submits documentation to the prosecuting attorney that verifies that
the qualified individual satisfied the requirements of that division. The
documentation shall be limited to the date and time of the screening obtained
and referral received.
         (c)   If a person is found to be in violation of any community control
sanction and if the violation is a result of either of the following, the court
shall first consider ordering the person’s participation or continued
participation in a drug treatment program or mitigating the penalty specified
in R.C. § 2929.13, 2929.15, or 2929.25, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, whichever is applicable, after which the court has the
discretion either to order the person’s participation or continued
participation in a drug treatment program or to impose the penalty with the
mitigating factor specified in any of those applicable sections:
            1.   Seeking or obtaining medical assistance in good faith for
another person who is experiencing a drug overdose;
            2.   Experiencing a drug overdose and seeking medical assistance
for that overdose or being the subject of another person seeking or obtaining
medical assistance for that overdose as described in division (B)(2)(b) of this
section.
         (d)   If a person is found to be in violation of any post-release
control sanction and if the violation is a result of either of the following,
the court or the parole board shall first consider ordering the person’s
participation or continued participation in a drug treatment program or
mitigating the penalty specified in R.C. § 2929.141 or 2967.28, whichever is
applicable, after which the court or the parole board has the discretion either
to order the person’s participation or continued participation in a drug
treatment program or to impose the penalty with the mitigating factor specified
in either of those applicable sections:
            1.   Seeking or obtaining medical assistance in good faith for
another person who is experiencing a drug overdose;
            2.   Experiencing a drug overdose and seeking medical assistance
for that emergency or being the subject of another person seeking or obtaining
medical assistance for that overdose as described in division (B)(2)(b) of this
section.
         (e)   Nothing in division (B)(2)(b) of this section shall be construed
to do any of the following:
            1.   Limit the admissibility of any evidence in connection with the
investigation or prosecution of a crime with regards to a defendant who does
not qualify for the protections of division (B)(2)(b) of this section or with
regards to any crime other than a minor drug possession offense committed by a
person who qualifies for protection pursuant to division (B)(2)(b) of this
section for a minor drug possession offense;
            2.   Limit any seizure of evidence or contraband otherwise
permitted by law;
            3.   Limit or abridge the authority of a peace officer to detain or
take into custody a person in the course of an investigation or to effectuate
an arrest for any offense except as provided in that division;
            4.   Limit, modify, or remove any immunity from liability available
pursuant to law in effect prior to September 13, 2016 to any public agency or
to an employee of any public agency.
         (f)   Division (B)(2)(b) of this section does not apply to any person
who twice previously has been granted an immunity under division (B)(2)(b) of
this section. No person shall be granted an immunity under division (B)(2)(b)
of this section more than two times.
         (g)   Nothing in this section shall compel any qualified individual to
disclose protected health information in a way that conflicts with the
requirements of the “Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of
1996”, 104 Pub. L. No. 191, 110 Stat. 2021, 42 U.S.C. §§ 1320d et seq., as
amended, and regulations promulgated by the United States Department of Health
and Human Services to implement the act or the requirements of 42 C.F.R. Part
2.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of one of the
following:
      (1)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule I or Schedule II, with the
exception of marihuana or hashish, whoever violates division (A) of this
section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V,
whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of drugs.
The penalty for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2)(b) of this
section, possession of drugs is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the
offender previously has been convicted of a drug abuse offense, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds the bulk
amount, possession of drugs is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the violation is marihuana or a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance containing marihuana other than hashish,
whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of
marihuana. The penalty for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) or (C)(3)(c)
of this section, possession of marihuana is a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 100 grams
but is less than 200 grams, possession of marihuana is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
         (c)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 200 grams,
possession of marihuana is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (4)   If the drug involved in the violation is hashish or a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance containing hashish, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of hashish. The penalty
for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(4)(b) or (C)(4)(c)
of this section, possession of hashish is a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds five grams
but is less than ten grams of hashish in a solid form or equals or exceeds one
gram but is less than two grams of hashish in a liquid concentrate, liquid
extract, or liquid distillate form, possession of hashish is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
         (c)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds ten grams
of hashish in a solid form or equals or exceeds two grams of hashish in a
liquid concentrate, liquid extract, or liquid distillate form, possession of
hashish is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl-related compound
and marihuana, one of the following applies:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(5)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of possession of marihuana and shall be
punished as provided in division (C)(3) of this section. Except as otherwise
provided in division (C)(5)(b) of this section, the offender is not guilty of
possession of a fentanyl-related compound under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) and shall
not be charged with, convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) for
possession of a fentanyl-related compound.
         (b)   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of possession of a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11).
      (6)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl-related compound
and any Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V controlled substance that is
not a fentanyl-related compound, one of the following applies:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(6)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of possession of drugs and shall be punished as
provided in division (C)(2) of this section. Except as otherwise provided in
division (C)(6)(b) of this section, the offender is not guilty of possession of
a fentanyl-related compound under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) and shall not be
charged with, convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) for
possession of a fentanyl-related compound.
         (b)   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of possession of a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11).
   (D)   Arrest or conviction for a minor misdemeanor violation of this section
does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s criminal
record, including any inquiries contained in any application for employment,
license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s
appearance as a witness.
   (E)   (1)   In addition to any prison term or jail term authorized or
required by division (C) of this section and R.C. §§ 2929.13, 2929.14, 2929.22,
2929.24, and 2929.25, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
in addition to any other sanction that is imposed for the offense under this
section, R.C. §§ 2929.11 through 2929.18, or R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court that sentences
an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (A)
of this section may suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit for not more than five years. However, if the offender
pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another state or the
United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the violation,
the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or permit for not more than five years.
      (2)   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition to
any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
   (F)   (1)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
      (2)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (F) of this section, the
sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.11)
Statutory reference:
   Felony drug possession offenses, see R.C. § 2925.11(C)
§ 138.04 POSSESSING DRUG ABUSE INSTRUMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make, obtain, possess, or use any
instrument, article, or thing the customary and primary purpose of which is for
the administration or use of a dangerous drug, other than marihuana, when the
instrument involved is a hypodermic or syringe, whether or not of crude or
extemporized manufacture or assembly, and the instrument, article, or thing
involved has been used by the offender to unlawfully administer or use a
dangerous drug, other than marihuana, or to prepare a dangerous drug, other
than marihuana, for unlawful administration or use.
   (B)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, licensed health
professionals authorized to prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies,
and other persons whose conduct was in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719,
4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, and 4741.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing drug abuse
instruments, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a drug abuse offense, violation of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (D)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.12)
§ 138.05 PERMITTING DRUG ABUSE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner, operator, or person in charge of a
locomotive, watercraft, aircraft, or other vehicle, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, shall knowingly permit the vehicle to be used for the commission of a
felony drug abuse offense.
   (B)   No person, who is the owner, lessee, or occupant, or who has custody,
control, or supervision of premises, or real estate, including vacant land,
shall knowingly permit his or her premises, or real estate, including vacant
land, to be used for the commission of a felony drug abuse offense by another
person.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of permitting drug abuse.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, permitting
drug abuse is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Permitting drug abuse is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the felony drug abuse offense in question is a
violation of R.C. § 2925.02, 2925.03, or 2925.04, or if the felony drug abuse
offense in question is a violation of R.C. § 2925.041 and the offender had
actual knowledge, at the time the offender permitted the vehicle, premises, or
real estate to be used as described in division (A) or (B) of this section,
that the person who assembled or possessed the chemicals in question in
violation of R.C. § 2925.041 had assembled or possessed them with the intent to
manufacture a controlled substance in Schedule I or Schedule II in violation of
R.C. § 2925.04.
   (D)   Any premises or real estate that is permitted to be used in violation
of division (B) of this section constitutes a nuisance subject to abatement
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2925.13(A) - (C), (F))
§ 138.06 ILLEGAL CULTIVATION OF MARIHUANA.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cultivate marihuana.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any person listed in R.C. § 2925.03(B)
(1), (B)(2) or (B)(3), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, to
the extent and under the circumstances described in that division.
   (C)   Whoever commits a violation of division (A) of this section is guilty
of illegal cultivation of marihuana.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in the following divisions, illegal
cultivation of marihuana is a minor misdemeanor or, if the offense was
committed in the vicinity of a school or in the vicinity of a juvenile, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   If the amount of marihuana involved equals or exceeds 100 grams but
is less than 200 grams, illegal cultivation of marihuana is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree or, if the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school
or in the vicinity of a juvenile, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (3)   If the amount of marihuana involved equals or exceeds 200 grams,
illegal cultivation of marihuana is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   Arrest or conviction for a minor misdemeanor violation of this section
does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s criminal
record, including any inquiries contained in any application for employment,
license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s
appearance as a witness.
(R.C. § 2925.04(A), (B), (C)(5), (G))
Statutory reference:
   Illegal manufacturing of controlled substances, felony, see R.C. § 2925.04
   Sale or use of drugs not approved by Food and Drug Administration, felony,
see R.C. § 2925.09
§ 138.07 ABUSING HARMFUL INTOXICANTS.
   (A)   Except for lawful research, clinical, medical, dental, or veterinary
purposes, no person, with purpose to induce intoxication or similar
physiological effects, shall obtain, possess, or use a harmful intoxicant.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of abusing harmful
intoxicants, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a drug abuse offense, abusing harmful intoxicants is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to the September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (C)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.31)
§ 138.08 ILLEGAL DISPENSING OF DRUG SAMPLES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly furnish a sample drug to another person.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to manufacturers,
wholesalers, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, licensed health professionals
authorized to prescribe drugs, and other persons whose conduct is in accordance
with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4725, 4729, 4730, 4731, and 4741.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal dispensing of
drug samples.
      (2)   If the drug involved in the offense is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule I or Schedule II, with the
exception of marihuana, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the offense is a dangerous drug or a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule
IV or Schedule V, or is marihuana, the penalty for the offense shall be
determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in the following division, illegal
dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
         (b)   If the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school or in
the vicinity of a juvenile, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2925.36(A) - (C))
Statutory reference:
   Felony offenses, see R.C. § 2925.36(C)(2)
§ 138.09 FEDERAL PROSECUTION BAR TO MUNICIPAL PROSECUTION.
   No person shall be prosecuted for a violation of this chapter if the person
has been acquitted or convicted under the federal drug abuse control laws of
the same act or omission which, it is alleged, constitutes a violation of this
chapter.
(R.C. §§ 2925.50, 3719.19)
§ 138.10 NITROUS OXIDE: IMPROPER DISPENSING OR DISTRIBUTION; POSSESSION IN A
MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   Improper dispensing or distribution.
      (1)   No person who dispenses or distributes nitrous oxide in cartridges
shall fail to comply with either of the following:
         (a)   The record-keeping requirements established under division (A)
(3) of this section.
         (b)   The labeling and transaction identification requirements
established under division (A)(4) of this section.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(1)(b) of this section is
guilty of improperly dispensing or distributing nitrous oxide, a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
      (3)   Beginning July 1, 2001, a person who dispenses or distributes
nitrous oxide shall record each transaction involving the dispensing or
distribution of the nitrous oxide on a separate card. The person shall require
the purchaser to sign the card and provide a complete residence address. The
person dispensing or distributing the nitrous oxide shall sign and date the
card. The person shall retain the card recording a transaction for one year
from the date of the transaction. The person shall maintain the cards at the
person’s business address and make them available during normal business hours
for inspection and copying by officers or employees of the State Board of
Pharmacy or of other law enforcement agencies that are authorized to
investigate violations of this code, R.C. Chapters 2925, 3719, or 4729, or
federal drug abuse control laws. The cards used to record each transaction
shall inform the purchaser of the following:
         (a)   That nitrous oxide cartridges are to be used only for purposes
of preparing food;
         (b)   That inhalation of nitrous oxide can have dangerous health
effects; and
         (c)   That it is a violation of state law to distribute or dispense
cartridges of nitrous oxide to any person under age 21, punishable as a felony
of the fifth degree.
      (4)   (a)   Each cartridge of nitrous oxide dispensed or distributed in
this municipality shall bear the following printed warning: “Nitrous oxide
cartridges are to be used only for purposes of preparing food. Nitrous oxide
cartridges may not be sold to persons under age 21. Do not inhale contents.
Misuse can be dangerous to your health.”
         (b)   Each time a person dispenses or distributes one or more
cartridges of nitrous oxide, the person shall mark the packaging containing the
cartridges with a label or other device that identifies the person who
dispensed or distributed the nitrous oxide and the person’s business address.
(R.C. § 2925.32(B)(4), (D)(2), (F), (G))
   (B)   Possession in a motor vehicle.
      (1)   As used in this section, MOTOR VEHICLE, STREET and HIGHWAY have the
same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      (2)   Unless authorized by this code or by state law, no person shall
possess an open cartridge of nitrous oxide in either of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   While operating or being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on
a street, highway, or other public or private property open to the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking.
         (b)   While being in or on a stationary motor vehicle on a street,
highway, or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular traffic or parking.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of possessing nitrous
oxide in a motor vehicle, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (4)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for
possessing nitrous oxide in a motor vehicle, the court may suspend for not more
than five years the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit.
(R.C. § 2925.33)
Statutory reference:
   Trafficking in harmful intoxicants, see R.C. § 2925.32
§ 138.11 LABORATORY REPORT REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of this chapter or
R.C. Chapters 2925 or 3719, a laboratory report from the Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation or a laboratory operated by another law
enforcement agency, or a laboratory established by or under the authority of an
institution of higher education that has its main campus in this state and that
is accredited by the Association of American Universities or the North Central
Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools, primarily for the purpose of
providing scientific service to law enforcement agencies, and signed by the
person performing the analysis, stating that the substance that is the basis of
the alleged offense has been weighed and analyzed and stating the findings as
to the content, weight, and identity of the substance and that it contains any
amount of a controlled substance and the number and description of unit
dosages, is prima facie evidence of the content, identity, and weight or the
existence and number of unit dosages of the substance. In any criminal
prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 2925.041 or a violation of this chapter,
R.C. Chapter 2925 or R.C. Chapter 3719 that is based on the possession of
chemicals sufficient to produce a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance
included in Schedule I, II, III, IV, or V, a laboratory report from the Bureau
or from any laboratory that is operated or established as described in this
division that is signed by the person performing the analysis, stating that the
substances that are the basis of the alleged offense have been weighed and
analyzed and stating the findings as to the content, weight, and identity of
each of the substances, is prima facie evidence of the content, identity, and
weight of the substances.
      (2)   Attached to that report shall be a copy of a notarized statement by
the signer of the report giving the name of the signer and stating that the
signer is an employee of the laboratory issuing the report and that performing
the analysis is a part of the signer’s regular duties, and giving an outline of
the signer’s education, training, and experience for performing an analysis of
materials included under this section. The signer shall attest that
scientifically accepted tests were performed with due caution, and that the
evidence was handled in accordance with established and accepted procedures
while in the custody of the laboratory.
   (B)   The prosecuting attorney shall serve a copy of the report on the
attorney of record for the accused, or on the accused if the accused has no
attorney, prior to any proceeding in which the report is to be used against the
accused other than at a preliminary hearing or grand jury proceeding where the
report may be used without having been previously served upon the accused.
   (C)   The report shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents,
identity, and weight or the existence and number of unit dosages of the
substance if the accused or the accused’s attorney demands the testimony of the
person signing the report, by serving the demand upon the prosecuting attorney,
within seven days from the accused or the accused’s attorney’s receipt of the
report. The time may be extended by a trial judge in the interests of justice.
   (D)   Any report issued for use under this section shall contain notice of
the right of the accused to demand, and the manner in which the accused shall
demand, the testimony of the person signing the report.
   (E)   Any person who is accused of a violation of this chapter or R.C.
Chapters 2925 or 3719 is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have a portion of the substance that is, or of each of the
substances that are, the basis of the alleged violation preserved for the
benefit of independent analysis performed by a laboratory analyst employed by
the accused person, or, if the accused is indigent, by a qualified laboratory
analyst appointed by the court. Such portion shall be a representative sample
of the entire substance that is, or of each of the substances that are, the
basis of the alleged violation and shall be of sufficient size, in the opinion
of the court, to permit the accused’s analyst to make a thorough scientific
analysis concerning the identity of the substance or substances. The
prosecuting attorney shall provide the accused’s analyst with the sample
portion at least 14 days prior to trial, unless the trial is to be held in a
court not of record or unless the accused person is charged with a minor
misdemeanor, in which case the prosecuting attorney shall provide the accused’s
analyst with the sample portion at least three days prior to trial. If the
prosecuting attorney determines that such a sample portion cannot be preserved
and given to the accused’s analyst, the prosecuting attorney shall so inform
the accused person, or the accused’s attorney. In such a circumstance, the
accused person is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have the accused’s privately employed or court appointed analyst
present at an analysis of the substance that is, or the substances that are,
the basis of the alleged violation, and, upon further written request, to
receive copies of all recorded scientific data that result from the analysis
and that can be used by an analyst in arriving at conclusions, findings, or
opinions concerning the identity of the substance or substances subject to the
analysis.
   (F)   In addition to the rights provided under division (E) of this section,
any person who is accused of a violation of this chapter or R.C. Chapters 2925
or 3719 that involves a bulk amount of a controlled substance, or any multiple
thereof, or who is accused of a violation of R.C. § 2925.11 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, other than a minor misdemeanor violation, that
involves marihuana, is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have a laboratory analyst of the accused’s choice, or, if the
accused is indigent, a qualified laboratory analyst appointed by the court,
present at a measurement or weighing of the substance that is the basis of the
alleged violation. Also, the accused person is entitled, upon further written
request, to receive copies of all recorded scientific data that result from the
measurement or weighing and that can be used by an analyst in arriving at
conclusions, findings, or opinions concerning the weight, volume, or number of
unit doses of the substance subject to the measurement or weighing.
(R.C. § 2925.51)
   (G)   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required under
R.C. §§ 2929.18 and 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required
under any provision of law, the court imposing sentence upon an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a drug abuse offense may order the offender to
pay to the state, municipal, or county law enforcement agencies that handled
the investigation and prosecution all of the costs that the state, municipal
corporation, or county reasonably incurred in having tests performed under this
section or R.C. § 2925.51 or in any other manner on any substance that was the
basis of, or involved in, the offense to determine whether the substance
contained any amount of a controlled substance if the results of the tests
indicate that the substance tested contained any controlled substance. No court
shall order an offender under this section to pay the costs of tests performed
on a substance if the results of the tests do not indicate that the substance
tested contained any controlled substance. The court shall hold a hearing to
determine the amount of costs to be imposed under this section. The court may
hold the hearing as part of the sentencing hearing for the offender.
(R.C. § 2925.511)
§ 138.12 COUNTERFEIT CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly possess any counterfeit controlled
substance.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be guilty of
possession of counterfeit controlled substances, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2925.37(A), (G))
Statutory reference:
   Trafficking and other felony counterfeit controlled substance offenses, see
R.C. § 2925.37(H) - (M)
§ 138.13 USE, POSSESSION, OR SALE OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   As used in this section, DRUG PARAPHERNALIA means any equipment,
product, or material of any kind that is used by the offender, intended by the
offender for use, or designed for use, in propagating, cultivating, growing,
harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing,
preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing,
concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the
human body, a controlled substance in violation of this chapter. The term
includes but is not limited to any of the following equipment, products, or
materials that are used by the offender, intended by the offender for use, or
designed by the offender for use, in any of the following manners:
      (1)   A kit for propagating, cultivating, growing, or harvesting any
species of a plant that is a controlled substance or from which a controlled
substance can be derived.
      (2)   A kit for manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
processing, or preparing a controlled substance.
      (3)   Any object, instrument, or device for manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing, or preparing methamphetamine.
      (4)   An isomerization device for increasing the potency of any species
of a plant that is a controlled substance.
      (5)   Testing equipment for identifying, or analyzing the strength,
effectiveness, or purity of, a controlled substance.
      (6)   A scale or balance for weighing or measuring a controlled
substance.
      (7)   A diluent or adulterant, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose, or lactose, for cutting a controlled substance.
      (8)   A separation gin or sifter for removing twigs and seeds from, or
otherwise cleaning or refining, marihuana.
      (9)   A blender, bowl, container, spoon, or mixing device for compounding
a controlled substance.
      (10)   A capsule, balloon, envelope, or container for packaging small
quantities of a controlled substance.
      (11)   A container or device for storing or concealing a controlled
substance.
      (12)   A hypodermic syringe, needle, or instrument for parenterally
injecting a controlled substance into the human body.
      (13)   An object, instrument, or device for ingesting, inhaling, or
otherwise introducing into the human body, marihuana, cocaine, hashish, or
hashish oil, such as a metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or
ceramic pipe, with or without a screen, permanent screen, hashish head, or
punctured metal bowl; water pipe; carburetion tube or device; smoking or
carburetion mask; roach clip or similar object used to hold burning material,
such as a marihuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be
held in the hand; miniature cocaine spoon, or cocaine vial; chamber pipe;
carburetor pipe; electric pipe; air driver pipe; chillum; bong; or ice pipe or
chiller.
   (B)   In determining if any equipment, product, or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, the following:
      (1)   Any statement by the owner or by anyone in control of the
equipment, product, or material, concerning its use.
      (2)   The proximity in time or space of the equipment, product, or
material, or of the act relating to the equipment, product, or material, to a
violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2925.
      (3)   The proximity of the equipment, product, or material to any
controlled substance.
      (4)   The existence of any residue of a controlled substance on the
equipment, product, or material.
      (5)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of the owner, or of
anyone in control, of the equipment, product, or material, to deliver it to any
person whom he or she knows intends to use the equipment, product, or material
to facilitate a violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter
2925. A finding that the owner or anyone in control of the equipment, product,
or material is not guilty of a violation of any other provision of this chapter
or R.C. Chapter 2925 does not prevent a finding that the equipment, product, or
material was intended or designed by the offender for use as drug
paraphernalia.
      (6)   Any oral or written instruction provided with the equipment,
product, or material concerning its use.
      (7)   Any descriptive material accompanying the equipment, product, or
material and explaining or depicting its use.
      (8)   National or local advertising concerning the use of the equipment,
product, or material.
      (9)   The manner and circumstances in which the equipment, product, or
material is displayed for sale.
      (10)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of the sales of the
equipment, product, or material to the total sales of the business enterprise.
      (11)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses of the equipment,
product, or material in the community.
      (12)   Expert testimony concerning the use of the equipment, product, or
material.
   (C)   (1)   Subject to division (D)(2) of this section, no person shall
knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use, drug paraphernalia.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly sell, or possess or manufacture with
purpose to sell, drug paraphernalia, if he or she knows or reasonably should
know that the equipment, product, or material will be used as drug
paraphernalia.
      (3)   No person shall place an advertisement in any newspaper, magazine,
handbill, or other publication that is published and printed and circulates
primarily within this state, if he or she knows that the purpose of the
advertisement is to promote the illegal sale in this municipality or in this
state of the equipment, product, or material that the offender intended or
designed for use as drug paraphernalia.
   (D)   (1)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, licensed health
professionals authorized to prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies,
and other persons whose conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715,
4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, and 4741. This section shall not be construed to
prohibit the possession or use of a hypodermic as authorized by R.C. §
3719.172.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a person’s use,
or possession with purpose to use, any drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a
product, or material of any kind that is used by the person, intended by the
person for use, or designed for use in storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the human body
marihuana.
   (E)   Notwithstanding R.C. Chapter 2981, any drug paraphernalia that was
used, possessed, sold, or manufactured in violation of this section shall be
seized, after a conviction for that violation, shall be forfeited, and upon
forfeiture shall be disposed of pursuant to R.C. § 2981.12(B).
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (C)(1) of this section is guilty of
illegal use or possession of drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (F)(3) of this section, whoever
violates division (C)(2) of this section is guilty of dealing in drug
paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C)(2) of this section by selling drug
paraphernalia to a juvenile is guilty of selling drug paraphernalia to
juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (C)(3) of this section is guilty of
illegal advertising of drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (G)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.14)
   (H)   Illegal use or possession of marihuana drug paraphernalia.
      (1)   As used in this division (H), DRUG PARAPHERNALIA has the same
meaning as in division (A) of this section.
      (2)   In determining if any equipment, product, or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, all factors identified in division (B) of this
section.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use, any
drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a product, or material of any kind that
is used by the person, intended by the person for use, or designed for use in
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing into the human body marihuana.
      (4)   This division (H) does not apply to any person identified in
division (D)(1) of this section, and it shall not be construed to prohibit the
possession or use of a hypodermic as authorized by R.C. § 3719.172.
      (5)   Division (E) of this section applies with respect to any drug
paraphernalia that was used or possessed in violation of this section.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (H)(3) of this section is guilty of
illegal use or possession of marihuana drug paraphernalia, a minor misdemeanor.
      (7)   (a)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender
for a violation division (H) of this section, the court may suspend for not
more than five years the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit. However, if the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a
violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance
or the law of another state or the United States arising out of the same set of
circumstances as the violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the
offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction
imposed for a violation of division (H) of this section, the court immediately
shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
         (b)   1.   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under division (H)
of this section prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the
sentencing court requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an
offender who pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another
state or the United States that arose out of the same set of circumstances as
the violation for which the offender’s license or permit was suspended under
division (H) of this section shall not file such a motion.
            2.   Upon the filing of a motion under division (H)(7)(b) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.141)
§ 138.14 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE OR PRESCRIPTION LABELS.
   (A)   Whenever a manufacturer sells a controlled substance, and whenever a
wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility sells a controlled substance in
a package the wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility has prepared, the
manufacturer or the wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility, as the
case may be, shall securely affix to each package in which the controlled
substance is contained a label showing in legible English the name and address
of the vendor and the quantity, kind, and form of controlled substance
contained therein. No person, except a pharmacist for the purpose of dispensing
a controlled substance upon a prescription shall alter, deface, or remove any
label so affixed. As used in this division, “repackager” and “outsourcing
facility” have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   (B)   No person shall alter, deface or remove any label affixed pursuant to
R.C. § 3719.08 as long as any of the original contents remain.
(R.C. § 3719.08(A), (E))
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this
section, or R.C. § 3719.07 or 3719.08, or a drug abuse offense, a violation of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the
violation involves the sale, offer to sell, or possession of a Schedule I or II
controlled substance, with the exception of marihuana, and if the offender, as
a result of the violation, is a major drug offender, then R.C. § 3719.99(D)
applies.
(R.C. § 3719.99(C))
§ 138.15 POSSESSION, SALE AND DISPOSAL OF HYPODERMICS.
   (A)   Possession of a hypodermic is authorized for the following:
      (1)   A manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in hypodermics, or
medication packaged in hypodermics, and any authorized agent of employee of
that manufacturer, distributor or dealer, in the regular course of business;
      (2)   A terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, in the regular course of
business;
      (3)   A person authorized to administer injections, in the regular course
of the person’s profession or employment;
      (4)   A person, when the hypodermic in his possession was lawfully
obtained and is kept and used for the purpose of self-administration of insulin
or other drug prescribed for the treatment of disease by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs;
      (5)   A person whose use of a hypodermic is for legal research, clinical,
educational or medicinal purposes;
      (6)   A farmer, for the lawful administration of a drug to an animal;
      (7)   A person whose use of a hypodermic is for lawful professional,
mechanical, trade or craft purposes.
   (B)   No manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in, hypodermics or
medication packaged in hypodermics, or their authorized agents or employees,
and no terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, shall display any hypodermic
for sale. No person authorized to possess a hypodermic pursuant to division (A)
of this section shall negligently fail to take reasonable precautions to
prevent any hypodermic in the person’s possession from theft or acquisition by
any unauthorized person.
(R.C. § 3719.172(A), (B))
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (B) of this section, R.C. § 3719.05, 3719.06,
3719.13, 3719.172(B), or 3719.31, or a drug abuse offense, a violation of
division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 3719.99(E))
Statutory reference:
   Felony offenses, see R.C. § 3719.172(C) and (D)
§ 138.16 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE SCHEDULES.
   Controlled Substance Schedules I, II, III, IV, and V, as established in R.C.
§ 3719.41 and amended by R.C. §§ 3719.43 and 3719.44, are hereby adopted by
reference, and shall be treated as if set forth in full herein.
§ 138.17 UNLAWFUL FURNISHING OF PRESCRIPTION TO ENABLE PERSONS TO BE ISSUED
HANDICAPPED PARKING PLACARDS OR LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)   No physician or chiropractor shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Furnish a person with a prescription in order to enable the person
to be issued a removable windshield placard, temporary removable windshield
placard, or license plates under R.C. § 4503.44, knowing that the person does
not meet any of the criteria contained in R.C. § 4503.44(A)(1).
      (2)   Furnish a person with a prescription described in division (A)(1)
of this section and knowingly misstate on the prescription the length of time
the physician or chiropractor expects the person to have the disability that
limits or impairs the person’s ability to walk in order to enable the person to
retain a placard issued under R.C. § 4503.44 for a period of time longer than
that which would be estimated by a similar practitioner under the same or
similar circumstances.
(R.C. §§ 4731.481, 4734.161)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. §§ 4731.99(F), 4734.99(B))
Cross-reference:
   Parking privileges for persons with disabilities, see §
76.05
§ 138.18 SALE OF PSEUDOEPHEDRINE.
   (A)   Unlawful purchases.
      (1)   As used in divisions (A), (B), (C) and (D) of this section:
         CONSUMER PRODUCT. Any food or drink that is consumed or used by humans
and any drug, including a drug that may be provided legally only pursuant to a
prescription, that is intended to be consumed or used by humans.
         EPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of ephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or salts
of optical isomers.
         EPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains ephedrine.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of pseudoephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or
salts of optical isomers.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains
pseudoephedrine.
         RETAILER. A place of business that offers consumer products for sale
to the general public.
         SINGLE-INGREDIENT PREPARATION. A compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that contains a single active ingredient.
         TERMINAL DISTRIBUTOR OF DANGEROUS DRUGS. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 4729.01.
      (2)   (a)   1.   No individual shall knowingly purchase, receive, or
otherwise acquire an amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
that is greater than either of the following unless the pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product is dispensed by a pharmacist pursuant to a valid
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs and the conduct of the pharmacist and the licensed health professional
authorized to prescribe drugs is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715,
4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741:
               a.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single day;
               b.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
            2.   The limits specified in divisions (A)(2)(a)1.a. and (A)(2)
(a)1.b. of this section apply to the total amount of base pseudoephedrine or
base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product,
respectively. The limits do not apply to the product’s overall weight.
         (b)   It is not a violation of division (B)(1) of this section for an
individual to receive or accept more than an amount of pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product specified in division (A)(2)(a)1.a. or (A)(2)(a)1.b. of
this section if the individual is an employee of a retailer or terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs, and the employee receives or accepts from the
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs the pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product in a sealed container in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (3)   (a)   No individual under 18 years of age shall knowingly purchase,
receive, or otherwise acquire a pseudoephedrine product, or ephedrine product
unless the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product is dispensed by a
pharmacist pursuant to a valid prescription issued by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs and the conduct of the pharmacist
and the licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs is in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741.
         (b)   Division (A)(3)(a) of this section does not apply to an
individual under 18 years of age who purchases, receives, or otherwise acquires
a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product from any of the following:
            1.   A licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs
or pharmacist who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides the pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to that individual and whose conduct is in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741;
            2.   A parent or guardian of that individual who provides the
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            3.   A person, as authorized by that individual’s parent or
guardian, who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides the pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            4.   A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs who
provides the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to that individual if
the individual is an employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of
dangerous drugs and the individual receives or accepts from the retailer or
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs the pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product in a sealed container in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (4)   No individual under 18 years of age shall knowingly show or give
false information concerning the individual’s name, age, or other
identification for the purpose of purchasing, receiving, or otherwise acquiring
a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product.
      (5)   No individual shall knowingly fail to comply with the requirements
of R.C. § 3715.051(B).
      (6)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawful purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (A)(3)(a) of this section is guilty of
underage purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if it could be
committed by an adult.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of using
false information to purchase a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the first degree if it could be
committed by an adult.
      (9)   Whoever violates division (A)(5) of this section is guilty of
improper purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2925.55)
   (B)   Unlawful retail sales.
      (1)   (a)   1.   Except as provided in division (B)(1)(b) of this
section, no retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs or an employee
of a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall knowingly sell,
offer to sell, hold for sale, deliver, or otherwise provide to any individual
an amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product that is greater than
either of the following:
               a.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single day;
               b.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
            2.   The maximum amounts specified in divisions (B)(1)(a)1.a. and
(B)(1)(a)1.b. of this section apply to the total amount of base pseudoephedrine
or base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product,
respectively. The maximum amounts do not apply to the product’s overall weight.
         (b)   1.   Division (B)(1)(a) of this section does not apply to any
quantity of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product dispensed by a
pharmacist pursuant to a valid prescription issued by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs if the conduct of the pharmacist and
the licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs is in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741.
            2.   It is not a violation of division (B)(1)(a) of this section
for a retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, or employee of either
to provide to an individual more than an amount of pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product specified in division (B)(1)(a)1.a. or (B)(1)(a)1.b. of this
section under either of the following circumstances:
               a.   The individual is an employee of the retailer or terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs, and the employee receives or accepts from the
retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, or employee the
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product in a sealed container in
connection with manufacturing, warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging,
loading, or unloading of the product;
               b.   A stop-sale alert is generated after the submission of
information to the national precursor log exchange under the conditions
described in R.C. § 3715.052(A)(2).
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this section, no
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs or an employee of a
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall sell, offer to sell,
hold for sale, deliver, or otherwise provide a pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product to an individual who is under 18 years of age.
         (b)   Division (B)(2)(a) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
            1.   A licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs
or pharmacist who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides a pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to an individual under 18 years of age and whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731,
or 4741;
            2.   A parent or guardian of an individual under 18 years of age
who provides a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            3.   A person who, as authorized by the individual’s parent or
guardian, dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides a pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product to an individual under 18 years of age;
            4.   The provision by a retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs, or employee of either of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
in a sealed container to an employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of
dangerous drugs who is under 18 years of age in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (3)   No retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall fail
to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 3715.051(A) or R.C. § 3715.052(A)(2).
      (4)   No retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall fail
to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 3715.052(A)(1).
      (5)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawfully selling a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (B)(2)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawfully selling a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to a minor, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section is guilty of
improper sale of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a misdemeanor
of the second degree.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (B)(4) of this section is guilty of
failing to submit information to the national precursor log exchange, a
misdemeanor for which the offender shall be fined not more than $1,000 per
violation.
(R.C. § 2925.56)
   (C)   Transaction scans.
      (1)   As used in this division and division (D) of this section:
         CARD HOLDER. Means any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a seller, or an agent or employee
of a seller, to purchase or receive any pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product from the seller, agent, or employee.
         IDENTIFICATION CARD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2927.021.
         SELLER. Means a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs.
         TRANSACTION SCAN. Means the process by which a seller or an agent or
employee of a seller checks by means of a transaction scan device the validity
of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card that is
presented as a condition for purchasing or receiving any pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product.
         TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2927.021.
      (2)   (a)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may perform a
transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the validity of
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a
card holder as a condition for selling, giving away, or otherwise distributing
to the card holder a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product.
         (b)   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (C)(2)(a) of this section fails to match the information printed
on the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information
so printed is false or fraudulent, neither the seller nor any agent or employee
of the seller shall sell, give away, or otherwise distribute any
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the card holder.
         (c)   Division (C)(2)(a) of this section does not preclude a seller or
an agent or employee of a seller as a condition for selling, giving away, or
otherwise distributing a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the
person presenting the document from using a transaction scan device to check
the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or an identification card if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip
that may be scanned by the device.
      (3)   Rules adopted by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. §
4301.61(C) apply to the use of transaction scan devices for purposes of this
division (C) and division (D) of this section.
      (4)   (a)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except the following:
            1.   The name, address, and date of birth of the person listed on
the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by
a card holder;
            2.   The expiration date, identification number, and issuing agency
of the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by a card holder.
         (b)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use the
information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to be
recorded and maintained under division (C)(4)(a) of this section except for
purposes of division (D) of this section, R.C. § 2925.58, or R.C. § 3715.052(A)
(1).
         (c)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use a
transaction scan device for a purpose other than the purpose specified in
division (C)(2)(a) of this section.
         (d)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall sell or
otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising, or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by division (D) of this section
or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (C) or division (D) of this section
relieves a seller or an agent or employee of a seller of any responsibility to
comply with any other applicable state or federal laws or rules governing the
sale, giving away, or other distribution of pseudoephedrine products or
ephedrine products.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (C)(2)(b) or (C)(4) of this section is
guilty of engaging in an illegal pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender a civil penalty of
up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the Court shall pay each
collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into the County
Treasury.
(R.C. § 2925.57)
   (D)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may not be found
guilty of a charge of a violation of division (B) of this section in which the
age of the purchaser or other recipient of a pseudoephedrine product is an
element of the alleged violation if the seller, agent, or employee raises and
proves as an affirmative defense that all of the following occurred:
         (a)   A card holder attempting to purchase or receive a
pseudoephedrine product presented a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
an identification card.
         (b)   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that
the license or card was valid.
         (c)   The pseudoephedrine product was sold, given away, or otherwise
distributed to the card holder in reasonable reliance upon the identification
presented and the completed transaction scan.
      (2)   In determining whether a seller or an agent or employee of a seller
has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (D)(1) of this section,
the trier of fact in the action for the alleged violation of division (B) of
this section shall consider any written policy that the seller has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of division (B) of this
section. For purposes of division (D)(1)(c) of this section, the trier of fact
shall consider that reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan may require a seller or an agent or employee of
a seller to exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a
transaction scan device does not excuse a seller or an agent or employee of a
seller from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
         (a)   Whether a person to whom the seller or agent or employee of a
seller sells, gives away, or otherwise distributes a pseudoephedrine product is
18 years of age or older;
         (b)   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
      (3)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by
division (D)(1) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a
deputy registrar who issued an identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50
through 4507.52 shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of
that issuance in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles in the action.
(R.C. § 2925.58)
   (E)   Retailer’s duties.
      (1)   As used in divisions (E) and (F) of this section:
         CONSUMER PRODUCT. Any food or drink that is consumed or used by humans
and any drug, including a drug that may be provided legally only pursuant to a
prescription, that is intended to be consumed or used by humans.
         DRUG. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         EPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of ephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or salts
of optical isomers.
         EPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains ephedrine.
         LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. An officer or employee of any agency or
authority of the United States, a state, a territory, a political subdivision
of a state or territory, or an Indian tribe, who is empowered by the law to
investigate or conduct an official inquiry into a potential violation of law or
prosecute or otherwise conduct a criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding
arising from an alleged violation of law.
         LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS. Has the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         NATIONAL PRECURSOR LOG EXCHANGE or EXCHANGE. The electronic system for
tracking sales of pseudoephedrine products and ephedrine products on a national
basis that is administered by the National Association of Drug Diversion
Investigators or a successor organization.
         PHARMACIST. A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 to engage in the
practice of pharmacy.
         PHARMACY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PRESCRIBER. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PRESCRIPTION. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PROOF OF AGE. A driver’s license, a commercial driver’s license, a
military identification card, a passport, or an identification card issued
under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52 that shows a person is 18 years of age or
older.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of pseudoephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or
salts of optical isomers.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains
pseudoephedrine.
         RETAILER. A place of business that offers consumer products for sale
to the general public.
         SINGLE-INGREDIENT PREPARATION. A compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that contains a single active ingredient.
         STOP-SALE ALERT. A notification sent from the national precursor log
exchange to a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs indicating
that the completion of a sale of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
would result in a violation of R.C. § 2925.56(A)(1) or federal law.
         TERMINAL DISTRIBUTOR OF DANGEROUS DRUGS. Has the same meanings as in
R.C. § 4729.01.
         WHOLESALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
      (2)   A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs that sells,
offers to sell, holds for sale, delivers, or otherwise provides a
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the public shall do all of the
following:
         (a)   Segregate pseudoephedrine products or ephedrine products from
other merchandise so that no member of the public may procure or purchase such
products without the direct assistance of a pharmacist or other authorized
employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs;
         (b)   With regard to each time a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product is sold or otherwise provided without a valid prescription:
            1.   Determine, by examination of a valid proof of age, that the
purchaser or recipient is at least 18 years of age;
            2.   a.   Using any information available, including information
from the national precursor log exchange if the information is accessible, make
a reasonable attempt to ensure that no individual purchases or receives an
amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product that is greater than
either of the following:
                  i.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single
day;
                  ii.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
               b.   The maximum amounts specified in divisions (E)(2)(b)2.a.i.
and (E)(2)(b)2.a.ii. of this section apply to the total amount of base
pseudoephedrine or base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product, respectively. The maximum amounts do not apply to the product’s
overall weight.
         (c)   Maintain a log book of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product purchases, in accordance with R.C. § 3715.051;
         (d)   If required to comply with section R.C. § 3715.052, submit the
information specified in divisions (A)(1)(a) to (A)(1)(d) of that section to
the national precursor log exchange.
      (3)   Prescriptions, orders, and records maintained pursuant to this
section and stocks of pseudoephedrine products and ephedrine products shall be
open for inspection to federal, state, county, and municipal officers, and
employees of the State Board of Pharmacy whose duty it is to enforce the laws
of this state or of the United States relating to controlled substances. Such
prescriptions, orders, records, and stocks shall be open for inspection by the
State Medical Board and its employees for purposes of enforcing R.C. Chapter
4731.
(R.C. § 3715.05)
   (F)   Theft or loss; reporting requirements.
      (1)   Each retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, pharmacy,
prescriber, or wholesaler that sells, offers to sell, holds for sale, delivers,
or otherwise provides any pseudoephedrine product and that discovers the theft
or loss of any pseudoephedrine product in an amount of more than nine grams per
incident of theft or loss shall notify all of the following upon discovery of
the theft or loss:
         (a)   The State Board of Pharmacy, by telephone immediately upon
discovery of the theft or loss;
         (b)   Law enforcement authorities. If the incident is a theft and the
theft constitutes a felony, the retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs, pharmacy, prescriber, or wholesaler shall report the theft to the law
enforcement authorities in accordance with R.C. § 2921.22.
      (2)   Within 30 days after making a report by telephone to the State
Board of Pharmacy pursuant to division (F)(1)(a) of this section, a retailer,
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, pharmacy, prescriber, or wholesaler
shall send a written report to the State Board of Pharmacy.
      (3)   The reports required under this section shall identify the product
that was stolen or lost, the amount of the product stolen or lost, and the date
and time of discovery of the theft or loss.
(R.C. § 3715.06)
§ 138.19 SALE OF PURE CAFFEINE PRODUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section, PURE CAFFEINE PRODUCT means:
      (1)   Subject to division (A)(2) of this section, a product that consists
solely or primarily of caffeine and is manufactured into a crystalline, liquid,
or powdered form.
      (2)   The phrase does not include any of the following that contains
caffeine and is formulated, manufactured, and labeled in accordance with the
laws and regulations enforced by the United States Food and Drug
Administration:
         (a)   Coffee, tea, any soft drink, any energy drink, or any other
caffeine-containing beverage;
         (b)   Any energy product.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, no person shall
knowingly sell or offer for sale a pure caffeine product.
   (C)   Division (B) of this section does not prohibit a person from selling
or offering for sale any product manufactured in a unit-dose form such as a
pill, tablet, or caplet, but only if each unit dose of the product contains not
more than 250 milligrams of caffeine.
   (D)   Nothing in this section prohibits either of the following:
      (1)   Possession of a product described in division (C) of this section;
      (2)   Possession of a pure caffeine product by any of the following:
         (a)   A food processing establishment, as defined in R.C. § 3715.021;
         (b)   A manufacturer of a drug that is available without a
prescription;
         (c)   A laboratory that holds a current, valid category III terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs license issued by the state board of pharmacy
under R.C. § 4729.54;
         (d)   A laboratory of any agency or department of this state that
performs testing, analysis, and other laboratory services on behalf of the
state;
         (e)   A postal or delivery service that transports or delivers a pure
caffeine product to an entity specified in divisions (D)(2)(a) to (D)(2)(d) of
this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegal
sale of pure caffeine, a minor misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor
of the third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 2925.34)
§ 138.20 SALE OF DEXTROMETHORPHAN.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      DEXTROMETHORPHAN. Means the dextrorotatory isomer of 3-methoxy-N-
methylmorphinan, including its salts, but not including its racemic or
levorotatory forms.
      EVIDENCE OF MAJORITY AND IDENTITY. Means a document issued by the federal
government or a state, county, or municipal government, or a subdivision or
agency of any of the foregoing, including a driver's or commercial driver's
license, an identification card issued under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52, a
military identification card, or any other form of identification that bears
the name, date of birth, description, and picture of the person identified.
      RETAILER. Means a place of business that offers consumer products for
sale to the general public, including a terminal distributor of dangerous drugs
that is licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 and operated as a pharmacy.
   (B)   No retailer or employee of a retailer shall knowingly supply, deliver,
give, or otherwise provide a drug, material, compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance containing any quantity of dextromethorphan through the sale of any
product to a person under 18 years of age, unless the person has been issued a
prescription for the product being purchased.
   (C)   For purposes of division (B) of this section, the person making the
sale of a product containing dextromethorphan shall require and obtain evidence
of majority and identity from the purchaser, unless from the purchaser's
outward appearance the person making the sale would reasonably presume the
purchaser to be 25 years of age or older. Proof that the person making the sale
demanded, was shown, and acted in reasonable reliance on the purchaser's
evidence of majority and identity is a defense to any charge of a violation of
division (B) of this section.
   (D)   A retailer or employee of a retailer is not liable for damages in a
civil action for injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly
arises from an act or omission associated with a failure to prevent the sale of
a product containing dextromethorphan to a person under 18 years of age, unless
the act or omission constitutes willful or wanton misconduct.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegally
selling dextromethorphan, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2925.62)
CHAPTER 139: CURFEW; VANDALISM
Section
   
139.01   Curfew
   
139.02   Reward for information leading to conviction of vandals
§ 139.01 CURFEW.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of 18 years to be
upon the public streets, sidewalks, alleys, parks, playgrounds, places of
amusement and entertainment, or other unsupervised places between the hours of
12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m., unless the minor is exempted by one or more of the
following:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor's presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the village, a civic
organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor, or going to or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an
official school, religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults
and sponsored by the village, a civic organization, or another similar entity
that takes responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
   (B)   Whoever, being the parent, guardian or person having the care and
custody of a minor, shall allow or permit such minor to violate any of the
provisions of this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be punished as provided hereinafter.
   (C)   Any person who shall aid, abet, influence or encourage a minor to
violate any of the provisions of this section shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as provided
hereinafter.
   (D)   Whoever shall violate any of the provisions of this section shall be
fined in any sum not to exceed $50 or imprisoned for not more than three days,
or both.
(Ord. 13-72, passed 9-5-1972; Ord. 25-02, passed 9-9-2002; Ord. 03-04, passed
2-9-2004; Ord. 02-18, passed 2-12-2018)
§ 139.02 REWARD FOR INFORMATION LEADING TO CONVICTION OF VANDALS.
   The Council of the village is hereby authorized to pay the sum of $200 for
information leading to the arrest and conviction of any person or persons
responsible for vandalism of any property of the village, including park
property and including, but not limited to, any damage to or destruction of
trees, shrubs, growing plants and buildings.
(Ord. 7-85, passed 6-4-1985; Ord. 25-02, passed 9-9-2002; Ord. 03-04, passed 2-
9-2004; Ord. 02-18, passed 2-12-2018)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE REDUCTION
      
152.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
153.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Codes; Village Building Department
   
150.01   Ohio Building Codes adopted by reference
   
150.02   Enforcement of building codes
   
150.03   Village Building Department established
Basic Building Maintenance Code
   
150.15   General provision
   
150.16   Maintenance required
   
150.17   Orders to comply and appeals
   
150.18   Repair and restoration after casualty damage
Vacant Buildings and Structures
   
150.30   Generally
   
150.31   Applicability
   
150.32   Definitions
   
150.33   Registration of vacant buildings; compliance and requirements
   
150.34   Prohibitions for failure to register
   
150.35   No abrogation of other provisions
   
150.36   Right of entry
 
   
150.99   Penalty
BUILDING CODES; VILLAGE BUILDING DEPARTMENT
§ 150.01 OHIO BUILDING CODES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Ohio Building Code, O.A.C. §§ 4101:1 et seq., as promulgated by the Ohio
Board of Building Standards, is hereby adopted by reference as the building
code of the village for all construction within the jurisdiction of such code.
(Ord. 17-10, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 150.02 ENFORCEMENT OF BUILDING CODES.
   The O.A.C. § 4101:1, the Building Code; O.A.C. § 4101:2, the Mechanical
Code; and O.A.C. § 4101:3, the Plumbing Code, as promulgated by the Ohio Board
of Building Standards, shall apply and be enforced within the said village.
(Ord. 18-10, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 150.03 VILLAGE BUILDING DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The Village Building Department is hereby established.
   (B)   Said Department shall have full authority to enforce all laws,
statutes and regulations as provided and authorized in the Ohio Revised Code
and the Ohio Administrative Code pursuant to the certification approved by and
certification rule adopted by the Ohio Board of Building Standards.
(Ord. 17-10, passed 7-12-2010)
BASIC BUILDING MAINTENANCE CODE
§ 150.15 GENERAL PROVISION.
   All buildings and structures, all parts thereof and all building services
equipment shall be maintained in accordance with §
150.16.
(Ord. 07-05, passed 8-22-2005)
§ 150.16 MAINTENANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Maintenance of structure. Each owner and/or occupant shall keep all
exterior components of every structure (including, but not limited to, all main
structures and accessory structures) in good repair, including, but not limited
to, walls, roofs, chimneys, cornices, gutters, downspouts, drains, porches,
steps, landings, fire escapes, exterior stairs, windows, shutters, doors,
storefronts, signs, marquees and awnings.
      (1)   All surfaces shall be covered with a protective coating, including
paint, shingles, plastic/aluminum/asbestos or vinyl siding or other material
which preserves the structure and does not contribute to deterioration.
      (2)   All surfaces shall be maintained free of deterioration, including,
but not limited to, broken glass, loose or missing shingles or siding,
crumbling brick, stone and mortar, and peeling, scaling or deteriorated paint.
      (3)   Overhanging structures, including canopies, marquees, signs,
awning, exterior stairways, fire escapes and other structures with overhanging
extensions shall be maintained in good repair, be securely anchored to the
structure, and protected from rust and other signs of decay by application of a
weather protective material such as paint. Non-operative or broken electrical
signs shall be repaired or removed. All out of date signs and sign structures
that bear no relationship to the present use of the property shall be removed.
      (4)   All structures and buildings shall be weatherproof and shall not
harbor rodents, termites or other vermin.
   (B)   Maintenance of premises and landscape elements.
      (1)   All premises and landscape elements shall be maintained in a safe
and sanitary condition, including, but not limited to, steps, walks, driveways,
fences, retaining walls, trees, shrubs, grass and weeds. If any such area or
object constitutes a danger to health and safety, it shall be repaired,
replaced or removed.
      (2)   All paved driveways and walks which exist within the public right-
of-way shall be maintained in safe condition and in compliance with the
sidewalk ordinance and any ordinance, regulation or order regarding the
maintenance of rights-of-way as may be enacted by the village.
      (3)   All fences, retaining walls or similar structures shall be firmly
anchored in the ground and maintained in good structural repair. Wooden
elements or other elements subject to deterioration from weathering shall be
maintained with chemicals or paint to preserve the element and to retard
deterioration.
      (4)   Grass and other ground-cover shall be regularly trimmed and kept
from becoming overgrown in accordance with village ordinances.
      (5)   Any trees, shrubs or limbs near rights-of-way, buildings,
structures or places where people may congregate and which, in the judgment of
the Village Administrator, create a danger of injury to persons or property,
shall be removed to avoid danger to people or damage to property.
      (6)   All yards, courts or lots shall be kept free of accumulations of
trash, garbage, waste, rubbish, refuse and any substances which may cause a
fire hazard or may act as a breeding place for vermin or insects.
(Ord. 07-05, passed 8-22-2005) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.17 ORDERS TO COMPLY AND APPEALS.
   (A)   The Village Administrator or his or her representative shall enforce
this subchapter and shall use the procedures outlined herein. All suspected
violations and complaints shall be investigated by the Village Administrator
and the Village Administrator shall issue an order to the owner of property
upon which a violation of this subchapter exists to take specific corrective
actions that would bring the property into compliance with this subchapter.
   (B)   The order shall state the corrective measures that are required to
avoid hazards to public health and safety and/or to protect adjoining or
neighboring properties from safety, fire and structural hazards and to comply
with this subchapter.
   (C)   The order shall be served upon the property owner at his or her last
know address as set forth on the real property tax records of the county
wherein the property is located.
   (D)   The order shall contain a date certain when such corrective measures
shall be completed which shall be no less than 30 days.
   (E)   The property owner may appeal the order by filing a request for appeal
with the Board of Building and Zoning Appeals within 15 days of the date of the
order by services of the request for appeal upon the village. If no request for
appeal is made within the time set forth herein, the right to appeal shall be
deemed as waived.
   (F)   The Board of Building and Zoning Appeals shall consider the appeal at
the next regular meeting or within 30 days, whichever is lesser, from the date
of the request for appeal. The appeal shall address the order issued by the
Village Administrator. The Board may adopt the order, in whole or in part,
amend the order or dismiss the order. The Board shall not dismiss an order that
allows a condition to exist that creates a danger to any person or property of
the village.
   (G)   The decision of the Board of Building and Zoning Appeals may be
appealed the property owner to the Court of Common Pleas and upon the same
procedure as an appeal of a zoning decision of such Board.
   (H)   At the discretion of the Village Administrator, where he or she finds
that the purposes of this subchapter would be better served, may issue a notice
of conditions that require correction. Such notice shall contain same
information as an order, however, such a notice is not appealable nor shall
disobedience of a notice be subject to penalty. The issuance of a notice shall
not in any way bar the issuance of an order encompassing the same conditions at
any time.
(Ord. 07-05, passed 8-22-2005) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.18 REPAIR AND RESTORATION AFTER CASUALTY DAMAGE.
   (A)   Within a period of 30 days after casualty damage to any premises, the
owner and/or operator shall have taken the following steps:
      (1)   Contracted for the repair and restoration of damaged structures or
vegetation and the removal of debris; and/or
      (2)   Contracted for the demolition and removal of any part of the
premises not to be repaired and restored and for the removal of debris in
connection therewith.
   (B)   Such contracted work shall be completed within a reasonable time, not
to exceed 90 days. For good cause, the Village Administrator may extend the
time for completion of work provided that such extension is made to a date
certain not to exceed an additional 90 days. Additional extensions may be
granted only upon a demonstration of a substantial hardship in the completion
of the repair or restoration and that property owner has made diligent efforts
to correct the damage before seeking any further extensions. Failure to comply
with the time limits or extensions granted shall be deemed a violation of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 07-05, passed 8-22-2005) Penalty, see §
150.99
VACANT BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
§ 150.30 GENERALLY.
   The following sections are enacted as the code for the registration,
maintenance and upkeep of vacant buildings and structures within the village.
(Ord. 08-05, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 150.31 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall be applicable to all residential and commercial
buildings located within the village.
(Ord. 08-05, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 150.32 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF BUILDING OFFICIAL. The Village Administrator of the Village of
Bluffton or his or her designee.
   OWNER. Any person who, alone or jointly or severally with others, shall have
the legal or equitable title to a property and shall include executors,
administrators, trustees or guardians of the estate of the owner, and any
purchaser or assignee under a certificate of sale pursuant to a mortgage
foreclosure. The term OWNER shall also include partnerships and corporations
and other unincorporated associations. Any individual OWNER, regardless of
whether he or she shares ownership responsibility with other persons, any
general partner of a partnership, and any officer of a corporation or
unincorporated association shall have direct and personal responsibility and
liability for compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   VACANT BUILDING.
      (1)   Any structure or part of a structure which is unoccupied and which
constitutes an unsafe building or public nuisance as defined as follows.
      (2)   UNSAFE BUILDING or PUBLIC NUISANCE.
         (a)   As used in this subchapter shall mean and include the following:
            1.   Any building, house, shed, fence or other human-made structure
or parts thereof which by reason of its condition endangers human health, life
or limb or is likely to cause the spread of disease or otherwise cause injury
to the health of persons, or to surrounding neighborhood structures;
            2.   Any building, house, shed, fence or other human-made structure
or parts thereof which by reason of faulty construction, age, lack of proper
repair or other cause, is especially liable to occurrence of fire and
constitutes or creates a fire hazard;
            3.   Any building, house, shed, fence or other human-made structure
or parts thereof which by reason of faulty construction, age, lack of proper
repair or any other cause, is especially liable to cause injury or damage to
person or property by collapse or by the danger of collapse of any part of the
structure;
            4.   Any building, house, shed, fence or other human-made structure
or parts thereof which because of its condition or lack of doors or windows is
unsecured, open and available to and frequented by malefactors or disorderly
persons or juveniles who are not lawful occupants of such structure;
            5.   Any building, house, shed, fence, other human-made structure
or surrounding area to any of the foregoing structures which by reason of
continued vacancy and/or lack of reasonable and adequate maintenance causes a
deteriorating and blighting influence on nearby properties and causes
depreciation in the use, enjoyment, and value of properties in the immediately
surrounding area to such an extent that it is harmful to the community in which
such structure is situated; and
            6.   Any vacant building, house, shed or other human-made structure
or parts thereof which, in addition to being vacant as defined herein, is also
open and unsecured to trespass and which is not brought into compliance with
the ordinances of the village within the six-month period or any extension
granted as set forth in §
150.33(F).
         (b)   Any structure in the village falling within the meaning of any
of the foregoing definitions of UNSAFE BUILDING is hereby declared to be
illegal and to constitute a public nuisance which shall be subject to mandatory
abatement by repair or demolition in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter or other applicable law or regulation.
(Ord. 08-05, passed 9-12-2005) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.33 REGISTRATION OF VACANT BUILDINGS; COMPLIANCE AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All buildings presently located within the village which are “vacant”
as defined in this subchapter or which hereafter become “vacant” shall be
registered by the owner thereof within 30 days from date of their last
occupancy with the Chief Building Official.
   (B)   Registration shall be made on forms supplied by the Chief Building
Official and shall include:
      (1)   A description of the premises;
      (2)   The names and addresses of the owners of the premises;
      (3)   The names and addresses of the person or persons who shall be
responsible for compliance with this subchapter;
      (4)   The period of time for which the premises are to remain vacant; and
      (5)   A plan for conforming the premises to applicable minimum housing,
health, fire and safety laws and regulations.
   (C)   Upon registration of any building pursuant to this subchapter, or when
any such vacant building comes to his or her attention, the Chief Building
Official shall cause inspections to be made of the premises to determine the
condition of such building and premises and whether there exists any fire,
safety or health hazards upon the premises, and shall provide notices to the
owners thereof to comply with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (D)   As a minimum requirement, all vacant buildings as defined in this
subchapter shall conform to the following requirements:
      (1)   The interior of the building, to include any garage area, shall be
cleaned and free of debris;
      (2)   The grounds of the premises shall be kept free of weeds and debris
and the grass shall be mowed during summer months and the public sidewalks free
of snow and ice during the winter months; and
      (3)   No junk cars shall be parked on the premises.
   (E)   All buildings, which in addition to being “vacant” as defined in this
subchapter, are also open and unsecured to trespass, shall additionally meet
the following requirements:
      (1)   All windows and doors on the ground floor area, including basement
and garage, shall be boarded up and secured with minimum one-half inch
sheathing grade plywood; and
      (2)   The sheathing shall be applied in a neat and orderly manner, cut to
the size of the opening.
   (F)   The plan required in division (B)(5) above shall be reviewed and
approved by the Chief Building Official and implemented and completed within
six months of the date that the building is registered under this subchapter.
Upon application by the owner, the Board of Building Appeals may extend the
period of compliance for an additional six months; provided, however, that such
extension shall be granted only where the owner has demonstrated a good faith
effort to comply with the plan that has been filed pursuant to this subchapter.
   (G)   The fee for each quarter of the year or fraction thereof for which
such vacant or unoccupied building is registered shall be $50 per calendar
quarter. The owner of any building that is required to be registered by this
subchapter may, upon the showing of financial hardship, have the payment of
registration fees waived or deferred upon recommendation by the Board of
Building Appeals. If any registration is not made within the time set forth in
this subchapter, the required fee shall be increased an additional $10 each
month for the period of time that the registration is delinquent.
   (H)   No registration shall be assignable. If the names or addresses of any
of the persons required as part of the registration change, a new registration
shall be properly made within ten days from the date of such change in the same
manner and form as herein prescribed.
(Ord. 08-05, passed 9-12-2005) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.34 PROHIBITIONS FOR FAILURE TO REGISTER.
   No person shall own a vacant building as defined in this subchapter unless
the building is registered with the Chief Building Official in accordance with
the requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 08-05, passed 9-12-2005) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.35 NO ABROGATION OF OTHER PROVISIONS.
   This subchapter does not in any manner abrogate the other provisions of the
health, building and housing codes of the village or other applicable laws
pertaining to the abatement of public nuisances or unsafe buildings.
(Ord. 08-05, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 150.36 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Chief Building Official and his or her deputies, assistants or employees
assigned by him or her, or persons assigned to cooperate with him or her by
other departments of the village, so far as may be necessary for the
performance of their duties, shall have the right to enter upon any building
site or premises, or any new or unoccupied building, or any building under
construction, repair, alteration or removal, or any building alleged to be
unsafe, a menace to life or limb, or damaged or menaced by fire, upon showing
their badge of office. No person shall interfere with them in the performance
of such duties.
(Ord. 08-05, passed 9-12-2005) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any provisions of §§
150.15 through
150.18 or fail to comply with any of its requirements, or who shall erect,
construct, alter or repair, or do any work upon or in connection with, any
buildings or structures in violation of a plan therefore or disobey any order
or directive relating thereto approved or made by the Village Administrator or
his or her representative, or of a permit or certificate issued under §§
150.15 through
150.18, shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $250 or by imprisonment
for not more than 30 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment for each
provision of law thus violated. Each day that any such violation or failure
continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions
of §§
150.30 through
150.36 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree and shall be fined not
more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 60 days, or both, for each offense.
Unless otherwise provided, a separate offense shall be deemed committed each
day or portion thereof during which any act covered by §§
150.30 through
150.36 is permitted, to exist in violation of any provision of §§
150.30 through
150.36 or order made pursuant thereto.
      (2)   The application of the penalty provided in division (C)(1) above
shall not be held to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(Ord. 07-05, passed 8-22-2005; Ord. 08-05, passed 9-12-2005)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD DAMAGE REDUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Statutory authorization
   
151.002   Findings of fact
   
151.003   Statement of purpose
   
151.004   Methods of reducing flood loss
   
151.005   Lands to which these regulations apply
   
151.006   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
151.007   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.008   Interpretation
   
151.009   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
151.010   Severability
Definitions
   
151.025   Definitions
Administration
   
151.040   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator
   
151.041   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
151.042   Floodplain development permits
   
151.043   Application required
   
151.044   Review and approval of a floodplain development permit application
inspections
   
151.045   Post-construction certifications required
   
151.046   Revoking a floodplain development permit
   
151.047   Exemption from filing a floodplain development permit
   
151.048   Map maintenance activities
   
151.049   Data use and flood map interpretation
   
151.050   Substantial damage determinations
Use and Development Standards for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
151.065   General
   
151.066   Use regulations
   
151.067   Water and wastewater systems
   
151.068   Subdivisions and large developments
   
151.069   Residential structures
   
151.070   Nonresidential structures
   
151.071   Accessory structures
   
151.072   Recreational vehicles
   
151.073   Above ground gas or liquid storage tanks
   
151.074   Assurance of flood-carrying capacity
Appeals and Variances
   
151.085   Appeals Board established
   
151.086   Powers and duties
   
151.087   Appeals
   
151.088   Variances
   
151.089   Procedure at hearings
   
151.090   Appeal to the court
Enforcement
   
151.105   Compliance required
   
151.106   Notice of violation
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   Article XVIII, § 3 of the Ohio Constitution grants municipalities the legal
authority to adopt land use and control measures for promoting the health,
safety and general welfare of its citizens. Therefore, the Village Council does
ordain as follows.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 151.002 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   Within the village exists special flood hazard areas that are subject to
periodic inundation which may result in loss of life and property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax
base. Additionally, structures that are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or
otherwise protected from flood damage also contribute to the flood loss. In
order to minimize the threat of such damages and to achieve the purposes
hereinafter set forth, these regulations are adopted.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 151.003 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of these regulations to promote the public health, safety
and general welfare, and to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the proper use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to protect property and
minimize future flood blight areas;
   (G)   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions;
   (H)   Minimize the impact of development on adjacent properties within and
near flood prone areas;
   (I)   Ensure that the flood storage and conveyance functions of the
floodplain are maintained;
   (J)   Minimize the impact of development on the natural, beneficial values
of the floodplain;
   (K)   Prevent floodplain uses that are either hazardous or environmentally
incompatible; and
   (L)   Meet community participation requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 151.004 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSS.
   In order to accomplish its stated purposes, these regulations include
methods and provisions for:
   (A)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety
and property due to water hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities, which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel flood waters;
   (D)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, excavating and other
development which may increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers, which
will unnaturally divert flood, waters or which may increase flood hazards in
other areas.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 151.005 LANDS TO WHICH THESE REGULATIONS APPLY.
   These regulations shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within
the village as identified in §
151.006, including any additional areas of special flood hazard annexed by the
village.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 151.006 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   (A)   For the purposes of these regulations, the following studies and/or
maps are adopted:
      (1)   Flood Insurance Rate Map Allen County, Ohio and Incorporated Areas
and Flood Insurance Study Allen County, Ohio and Incorporated Areas, both
effective on May 2, 2013;
      (2)   Other studies and/or maps, which may be relied upon for
establishment of the flood protection elevation, delineation of the 100-year
floodplain, floodways or delineation of other areas of special flood hazard;
and
      (3)   Any hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analysis authored by a
registered professional engineer in the state which has been approved by the
village as required by §
151.068.
   (B)   Any revisions to the aforementioned maps and/or studies are hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of these regulations. Such maps
and/or studies are on file at the Village of Bluffton located at 154 N. Main
Street, Bluffton, Ohio 45817.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 151.007 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   These regulations are not intended to repeal any existing ordinances
including subdivision regulations, zoning or building codes. In the event of a
conflict between these regulations and any other regulations, the more
restrictive shall be followed. These regulations shall not impair any deed
restriction covenant or easement but the land subject to such interests shall
also be governed by the regulations.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 151.008 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   In the interpretation and application of these regulations, all
provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   (B)   Where a provision of these regulations may be in conflict with a state
or federal law, such state or federal law shall take precedence over these
regulations.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 151.009 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by these regulations is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. These regulations do
not imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. These regulations
shall not create liability on the part of the village, any officer or employee
thereof, or the Federal Emergency Management Agency, for any flood damage that
results from reliance on these regulations or any administrative decision
lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 151.010 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any section or provision of these regulations be declared by the
courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the regulations as a whole, or any part thereof other than the part
so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 3-25-2013)
DEFINITIONS
§ 151.025 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in these
regulations shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in
common usage and to give these regulations the most reasonable application. For
the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure on the same lot with, and of a nature
customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal structure.
   APPEAL. A request for review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of these regulations or a request for a
variance.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. The BASE FLOOD may also be referred to as the 1% chance annual
flood or 100-year flood.
   BASE (100-YEAR) FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The water surface elevation of the
base flood in relation to a specified datum, usually the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum of 1929 or the North American Vertical Datum of 1988, and
usually expressed in feet mean sea level (MSL). In Zone AO areas, the BASE
FLOOD ELEVATION is the natural grade elevation plus the depth number (from one
to three feet).
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ENCLOSURE BELOW THE LOWEST FLOOR. See LOWEST FLOOR.
   EXECUTIVE ORDER 11988 (FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT). Issued by President Carter in
1977, this order requires that no federally assisted activities be conducted in
or have the potential to affect identified special flood hazard areas, unless
there is no practicable alternative.
   FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA). The agency with the overall
responsibility for administering the National Flood Insurance Program.
   FILL. A deposit of earth material placed by artificial means.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM).Usually the initial map, produced by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, or U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development, for a community depicting approximate special flood hazard areas.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency, or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development, has delineated the areas of special flood hazard.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RISK ZONES. Zone designations on FHBMs and FIRMs that
indicate the magnitude of the flood hazard in specific areas of a community.
Following are the zone definitions.
      (1)   ZONE A. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year flood;
base flood elevations are not determined.
      (2)   ZONE A99. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood to be protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood protection
system under construction; no base flood elevations are determined.
      (3)   ZONES A1-30 and ZONE AE. Special flood hazard areas inundated by
the 100-year flood; base flood elevations are determined.
      (4)   ZONE AH. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood; flood depths of one to three feet (usually areas of ponding); base flood
elevations are determined.
      (5)   ZONE AO. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood; with flood depths of one to three feet (usually sheet flow on sloping
terrain); average depths are determined.
      (6)   ZONE B AND ZONE X (SHADED). Areas of 500-year flood; areas subject
to the 100-year flood with average depths of less than one foot or with
contributing drainage area less than one square mile; and areas protected by
levees from the base flood.
      (7)   ZONE C AND ZONE X (UNSHADED). Areas determined to be outside the
500-year floodplain.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report in which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development has provided flood profiles, floodway boundaries (sometimes shown
on flood boundary and floodway maps) and the water surface elevations of the
base flood.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE). The base flood elevation. In areas where
no base flood elevations exist from any authoritative source, the FLOOD
PROTECTION ELEVATION can be historical flood elevations, or base flood
elevations determined and/or approved by the Floodplain Administrator.
   FLOODWAY.
      (1)   The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that have been reserved in order to pass the base flood discharge. A
FLOODWAY is typically determined through a hydraulic and hydrologic engineering
analysis such that the cumulative increase in the water surface elevation of
the base flood discharge is no more than a designated height. In no case shall
the designated height be more than one foot at any point within the community.
      (2)   The FLOODWAY is an extremely hazardous area, and is usually
characterized by any of the following: moderate to high velocity flood waters;
high potential for debris and projectile impacts; and moderate to high erosion
forces.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for the purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for
the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than
the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such
as wave action, obstructed bridge openings, debris and ice jams, and the
hydrologic effect of urbanization in a watershed.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listings on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on the state’s inventory of historic places
maintained by the Ohio Historic Preservation Office; or
      (4)   Individually listed on the inventory of historic places certified
by the Ohio Historic Preservation Office.
   HYDROLOGIC AND HYDRAULIC ENGINEERING ANALYSIS. An analysis performed by a
professional engineer, registered in the state, in accordance with standard
engineering practices as accepted by FEMA, used to determine flood elevations
and/or floodway boundaries.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official FEMA determination, by letter, to
amend or revise effective flood insurance rate maps, flood boundary and
floodway maps, and flood insurance studies. LOMCs are broken down into the
following categories.
      (1)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). A formal review and
comment by FEMA as to whether a proposed project complies with the minimum
national flood insurance program floodplain management criteria. A CLOMR does
not amend or revise effective flood insurance rate maps, flood boundary and
floodway maps or flood insurance studies.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated special flood
hazard area. A LOMA amends the current effective flood insurance rate map and
establishes that a specific property is not located in a special flood hazard
area.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that, usually due to human-made changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations, and planimetric features. One
common type of LOMR, a LOMR-F, is a determination concerning whether a
structure or parcel has been elevated by fill above the base flood elevation
and is, therefore, excluded from the special flood hazard area.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement) of a structure. This definition excludes an enclosure below the
lowest floor which is an unfinished or flood resistant enclosure usable solely
for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, provided that such enclosure is built in accordance with the
applicable design requirements specified in these regulations for enclosures
below the LOWEST FLOOR.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. For the purposes of
these regulations, a MANUFACTURED HOME includes manufactured homes and mobile
homes as defined in R.C. Chapter 3781.06.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. As specified in the O.A.C. § 4781-12-01, means any
tract of land upon which three or more manufactured homes, used for habitation
are parked, either free of charge or for revenue purposes, and includes any
roadway, building, structure, vehicle or enclosure used or intended for use as
part of the facilities of the park. A tract of land that is subdivided and the
individual lots are not for rent or rented, but are for sale or sold for the
purpose of installation of manufactured homes on the lots, is not a
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK, even though three or more manufactured homes are parked
thereon, if the roadways are dedicated to the local government authority.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). A federal program enabling property
owners in participating communities to purchase insurance protection against
losses from flooding. This insurance is designed to provide an insurance
alternative to disaster assistance to meet the escalating costs of repairing
damage to buildings and their contents caused by floods. Participation in the
NFIP is based on an agreement between local communities and the federal
government that states if a community will adopt and enforce floodplain
management regulations to reduce future flood risks to all development in
special flood hazard areas, the federal government will make flood insurance
available within the community as a financial protection against flood loss.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the initial effective date of the village flood insurance rate map
effective January 23, 1974, and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures.
   PERSON. Includes any individual or group of individuals, corporation,
partnership, association, or any other entity, including state and local
governments and agencies. An AGENCY is further defined in R.C. § 111.15 as any
governmental entity of the state and includes, but is not limited to, any
board, department, division, commission, bureau, society, council, institution,
state college or university, community college district, technical college
district or state community college. AGENCY does not include the general
assembly, the controlling board, the adjutant general’s department or any
court.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ARCHITECT. A person registered to engage in the
practice of architecture under the provisions of R.C. §§ 4703.01 to 4703.19.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. A person registered as a professional
engineer under R.C. Chapter 4733.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL SURVEYOR. A person registered as a professional
surveyor under R.C. Chapter 4733.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Also known as AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD, it
is the land in the floodplain subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in
any given year. SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS are designated by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency on flood insurance rate maps, flood insurance
studies, flood boundary and floodway maps and flood hazard boundary maps as
Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-30 and A99. SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS may also refer
to areas that are flood prone and designated from other federal state or local
sources of data including, but not limited to, historical flood information
reflecting high water marks, previous flood inundation areas and flood prone
soils associated with a watercourse.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The
ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation
of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of
excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent
construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and
filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor
does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or
the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of a building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, manufactured home, or gas or liquid
storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other improvement
of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of
the structure before the start of construction of the improvement. This term
includes structures, which have incurred substantial damage, regardless of the
actual repair work performed.
      (2)   The term does not, however, include:
         (a)   Any improvement to a structure that is considered new
construction;
         (b)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified prior to the application for a development permit by
the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
         (c)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration would not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the standards of these regulations
consistent with the variance conditions identified herein.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with these regulations.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 3-25-2013)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.040 DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Village Administrator is hereby appointed to administer and implement
these regulations and is referred to herein as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 151.041 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to:
   (A)   Evaluate applications for permits to develop in special flood hazard
areas;
   (B)   Interpret floodplain boundaries and provide flood hazard and flood
protection elevation information;
   (C)   Issue permits to develop in special flood hazard areas when the
provisions of these regulations have been met, or refuse to issue the same in
the event of noncompliance;
   (D)   Inspect buildings and lands to determine whether any violations of
these regulations have been committed;
   (E)   Make and permanently keep all records for public inspection necessary
for the administration of these regulations including flood insurance rate
maps, letters of map amendment and revision, records of issuance and denial of
permits to develop in special flood hazard areas, determinations of whether
development is in or out of special flood hazard areas for the purpose of
issuing floodplain development permits, elevation certificates, variances and
records of enforcement actions taken for violations of these regulations;
   (F)   Enforce the provisions of these regulations;
   (G)   Provide information, testimony or other evidence as needed during
variance hearings;
   (H)   Coordinate map maintenance activities and FEMA follow-up; and
   (I)   Conduct substantial damage determinations to determine whether
existing structures, damaged from any source and in special flood hazard areas
identified by FEMA, must meet the development standards of these regulations.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 151.042 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to begin construction or other
development activity including, but not limited to, filling; grading;
construction; alteration, remodeling or expanding any structure; or alteration
of any watercourse wholly within, partially within or in contact with any
identified special flood hazard area, as established in §
151.006, until a floodplain development permit is obtained from the Floodplain
Administrator. Such floodplain development permit shall show that the proposed
development activity is in conformity with the provisions of these regulations.
No such permit shall be issued by the Floodplain Administrator until the
requirements of these regulations have been met.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 3-25-2013) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.043 APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   An application for a floodplain development permit shall be required
for all development activities located wholly within, partially within or in
contact with an identified special flood hazard area. Such application shall be
made by the owner of the property or his or her authorized agent, herein
referred to as the applicant, prior to the actual commencement of such
construction on a form furnished for that purpose. Where it is unclear whether
a development site is in a special flood hazard area, the Floodplain
Administrator may require an application for a floodplain development permit to
determine the development’s location.
   (B)   Such applications shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Site plans drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions
and topography of the area in question; the location of existing or proposed
structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities and the location of
the foregoing;
      (2)   Elevation of the existing, natural ground where structures are
proposed;
      (3)   Elevation of the lowest floor, including basement, of all proposed
structures;
      (4)   Such other material and information as may be requested by the
Floodplain Administrator to determine conformance with, and provide enforcement
of these regulations; and
      (5)   Technical analyses conducted by the appropriate design professional
registered in the state and submitted with an application for a floodplain
development permit when applicable:
         (a)   Floodproofing certification for nonresidential floodproofed
structure as required in §
151.070;
         (b)   Certification that fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor
of a structure not meeting the design requirements of §
151.068(E) are designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces;
         (c)   Description of any watercourse alteration or relocation that the
flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse will not be diminished, and
maintenance assurances as required in §
151.074(C);
         (d)   A hydrologic and hydraulic analysis demonstrating that the
cumulative effect of proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood by more than one foot in special flood hazard areas
where the Federal Emergency Management Agency has provided base flood
elevations but no floodway as required by §
151.074(B);
         (e)   A hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analysis showing impact
of any development on flood heights in an identified floodway as required by §
151.074(A); and
         (f)   Generation of base flood elevation(s) for subdivision and large-
scale developments as required by §
151.068.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 151.044 REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF A FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT APPLICATION
INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Review.
      (1)   After receipt of a complete application, the Floodplain
Administrator shall review the application to ensure that the standards of
these regulations have been met. No floodplain development permit application
shall be reviewed until all information required in §
151.043 has been received by the Floodplain Administrator.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator shall review all floodplain
development permit applications to assure that all necessary permits have been
received from those federal, state or local governmental agencies from which
prior approval is required. The applicant shall be responsible for obtaining
such permits as required including permits issued by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers under § 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 403 and §
404 of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1344, and the Ohio Environmental
Protection Agency under § 401 of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1341.
   (B)   Approval.
      (1)   Within 30 days after the receipt of a complete application, the
Floodplain Administrator shall either approve or disapprove the application. If
an application is approved, a floodplain development permit shall be issued.
All floodplain development permits shall be conditional upon the commencement
of work within one year. A floodplain development permit shall expire one year
after issuance unless the permitted activity has been substantially begun and
is thereafter pursued to completion.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator, and/or his or her designee, shall
make periodic inspections at appropriate times throughout the period of
construction in order to monitor compliance with permit conditions.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 151.045 POST-CONSTRUCTION CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   The following as-built certifications are required after a floodplain
development permit has been issued:
   (A)   For new or substantially improved residential structures, or
nonresidential structures that have been elevated, the applicant shall have a
Federal Emergency Management Agency elevation certificate completed by a
registered surveyor to record as-built elevation data. For elevated structures
in Zone A and Zone AO areas without a base flood elevation, the elevation
certificate may be completed by the property owner or owner’s representative;
and
   (B)   For all development activities subject to the standards of §
151.049(A), a letter of map revision.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 151.046 REVOKING A FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be revocable, if among other things,
the actual development activity does not conform to the terms of the
application and permit granted thereon. In the event of the revocation of a
permit, an appeal may be taken to the Appeals Board in accordance with §§
151.085 through
151.090 of these regulations.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 151.047 EXEMPTION FROM FILING A FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   An application for a floodplain development permit shall not be
required for:
      (1)   Maintenance work such as roofing, painting and basement sealing or
for small nonstructural development activities (except for filling and grading)
valued at less than $5,000;
      (2)   Development activities in an existing or proposed manufactured home
park that are under the authority of the Ohio Manufactured Homes Commission and
subject to the flood damage reduction provisions of the O.A.C. § 4781;
      (3)   Major utility facilities permitted by the Ohio Power Siting Board
under R.C. § 4906;
      (4)   Hazardous waste disposal facilities permitted by the Hazardous
Waste Siting Board under R.C. § 3734; and
      (5)   Development activities undertaken by a federal agency and which are
subject to Federal Executive Order 11988 - Floodplain Management.
   (B)   Any proposed action exempt from filing for a floodplain development
permit is also exempt from the standards of these regulations.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 151.048 MAP MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES.
   To meet national flood insurance program minimum requirements to have flood
data reviewed and approved by FEMA, and to ensure that the village flood maps,
studies and other data identified in §
151.006 accurately represent flooding conditions so appropriate floodplain
management criteria are based on current data, the following map maintenance
activities are identified.
   (A)   Requirement to submit new technical data.
      (1)   For all development proposals that impact floodway delineations or
base flood elevations, the community shall ensure that technical data
reflecting such changes be submitted to FEMA within six months of the date such
information becomes available. These development proposals include:
         (a)   Floodway encroachments that increase or decrease base flood
elevations or alter floodway boundaries;
         (b)   Fill sites to be used for the placement of proposed structures
where the applicant desires to remove the site from the special flood hazard
area;
         (c)   Alteration of watercourses that result in a relocation or
elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts; and
         (d)   Subdivision or large scale development proposals requiring the
establishment of base flood elevations in accordance with §
151.068.
      (2)   It is the responsibility of the applicant to have technical data,
required in accordance with §
151.049(A), prepared in a format required for a conditional letter of map
revision or letter of map revision, and submitted to FEMA. Submittal and
processing fees for these map revisions shall be the responsibility of the
applicant.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall require a conditional letter of
map revision prior to the issuance of a floodplain development permit for:
         (a)   Proposed floodway encroachments that increase the base flood
elevation; and
         (b)   Proposed development which increases the base flood elevation by
more than one foot in areas where FEMA has provided base flood elevations but
no floodway.
      (4)   Floodplain development permits issued by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be conditioned upon the applicant obtaining a letter of map
revision from FEMA for any development proposal subject to division (A)(1).
   (B)   Right to submit new technical data. The Floodplain Administrator may
request changes to any of the information shown on an effective map that does
not impact floodplain or floodway delineations or base flood elevations, such
as labeling or planimetric details. Such a submission shall include appropriate
supporting documentation made in writing by the Mayor of the village, and may
be submitted at any time.
   (C)   Annexation/detachment. Upon occurrence, the Floodplain Administrator
shall notify FEMA in writing whenever the boundaries of the village have been
modified by annexation or the community has assumed authority over an area, or
no longer has authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations
for a particular area. In order that the village flood insurance rate map
accurately represent the village boundaries, include within such notification a
copy of a map suitable for reproduction, clearly showing the new corporate
limits or the new area for which the village has assumed or relinquished
floodplain management regulatory authority.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 151.049 DATA USE AND FLOOD MAP INTERPRETATION.
   The following guidelines shall apply to the use and interpretation of maps
and other data showing areas of special flood hazard.
   (A)   In areas where FEMA has not identified special flood hazard areas, or
in FEMA identified special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation and
floodway data have not been identified, the Floodplain Administrator shall
review and reasonably utilize any other flood hazard data available from a
federal, state or other source.
   (B)   Base flood elevations and floodway boundaries produced on FEMA flood
maps and studies shall take precedence over base flood elevations and floodway
boundaries by any other source that reflect a reduced floodway width and/or
lower base flood elevations. Other sources of data, showing increased base
flood elevations and/or larger floodway areas than are shown on FEMA flood maps
and studies, shall be reasonably used by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   When preliminary flood insurance rate maps and/or flood insurance
study have been provided by FEMA:
      (1)   Upon the issuance of a letter of final determination by the FEMA,
the preliminary flood hazard data shall be used and replace all previously
existing flood hazard data provided from FEMA for the purposes of administering
these regulations; and
      (2)   Prior to the issuance of a letter of final determination by FEMA,
the use of preliminary flood hazard data shall only be required where no base
flood elevations and/or floodway areas exist or where the preliminary base
flood elevations or floodway area exceed the base flood elevations and/or
floodway widths in existing flood hazard data provided from FEMA. Such
preliminary data may be subject to change and/or appeal to FEMA.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator shall make interpretations, where needed,
as to the exact location of the flood boundaries and areas of special flood
hazard. A person contesting the determination of the location of the boundary
shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as
provided in §§
151.085 through
151.090.
   (E)   Where a map boundary showing an area of special flood hazard and field
elevations disagree, the base flood elevations or flood protection elevations
(as found on an elevation profile, floodway data table, established high water
marks and the like) shall prevail.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 151.050 SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE DETERMINATIONS.
   (A)   Damages to structures may result from a variety of causes including
flood, tornado, wind, heavy snow, fire and the like.
   (B)   After such a damage event, the Floodplain Administrator shall:
      (1)   Determine whether damaged structures are located in special flood
hazard areas;
      (2)   Conduct substantial damage determinations for damaged structures
located in special flood hazard areas; and
      (3)   Make reasonable attempt to notify owners of substantially damaged
structures of the need to obtain a floodplain development permit prior to
repair, rehabilitation or reconstruction.
   (C)   Additionally, the Floodplain Administrator may implement other
measures to assist with the substantial damage determination and subsequent
repair process. These measures include issuing press releases, public service
announcements and other public information materials related to the floodplain
development permits and repair of damaged structures; coordinating with other
federal, state and local agencies to assist with substantial damage
determinations; providing owners of damaged structures materials and other
information related to the proper repair of damaged structures in special flood
hazard areas; and assist owners of substantially damaged structures with
increased cost of compliance insurance claims.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 3-25-2013)
USE AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 151.065 GENERAL.
   The following use and development standards apply to development wholly
within, partially within, or in contact with any special flood hazard area as
established in §§
151.006 or
151.049(A).
(Ord. 03-13, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 151.066 USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Permitted uses. All uses not otherwise prohibited in this section or
any other applicable land use regulations adopted by the village are allowed
provided they meet the provisions of these regulations.
   (B)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   Private water supply systems in all special flood hazard areas
identified by FEMA, permitted under R.C. § 3701; and
      (2)   Infectious waste treatment facilities in all special flood hazard
areas, permitted under R.C. § 3734.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 151.067 WATER AND WASTEWATER SYSTEMS.
   The following standards apply to all water supply, sanitary sewerage and
waste disposal systems not otherwise regulated by the Ohio Revised Code.
   (A)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems.
   (B)   New and replacement sanitary sewerage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into flood waters.
   (C)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to, or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 151.068 SUBDIVISIONS AND LARGE DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage and are subject to all applicable standards in these
regulations.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage.
   (D)   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data
are not available, the applicant shall provide a hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analysis that generates base flood elevations for all subdivision
proposals and other proposed developments containing at least 50 lots or five
acres, whichever is less.
   (E)   The applicant shall meet the requirement to submit technical data to
FEMA in §
151.048(A)(1)(d) when a hydrologic and hydraulic analysis is completed that
generates base flood elevations as required by division (D) above.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 151.069 RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy. Where a
structure, including its foundation members, is elevated on fill to or above
the base flood elevation, the requirements for anchoring (§
151.069(A)) and construction materials resistant to flood damage (§
151.069(B)) are satisfied.
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with methods and materials resistant to flood damage.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or elevated so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure, including manufactured homes, shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated to or above the flood protection elevation. In Zone AO areas
with no elevations specified, the structure shall have the lowest floor,
including basement, elevated at least two feet above the highest adjacent
natural grade.
   (E)   New construction and substantial improvements, including manufactured
homes, that do not have basements and that are elevated to the flood protection
elevation using pilings, columns, posts or solid foundation perimeter walls
with openings sufficient to allow unimpeded movement of flood waters may have
an enclosure below the lowest floor provided the enclosure meets the following
standards:
      (1)   Be used only for the parking of vehicles, building access or
storage; and
      (2)   Be designed and certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls
by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters; or
      (3)   Have a minimum of two openings on different walls having a total
net area not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area,
and the bottom of all such openings being no higher than one foot above grade.
The openings may be equipped with screens, louvers or other coverings or
devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.
   (F)   Manufactured homes shall be affixed to a permanent foundation and
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors.
   (G)   Repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon a determination
that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s
continued designation as a historic structure and is the minimum necessary to
preserve the historic character and design of the structure, shall be exempt
from the development standards of this section.
   (H)   In AO Zones, new construction and substantial improvement shall have
adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around
and away from the structure.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 151.070 NONRESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or other nonresidential structure shall meet the requirements of
divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or other nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest
floor, including basement, elevated to or above the level of the flood
protection elevation; or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall meet all of the following standards:
      (1)   Be dry floodproofed so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water to the level of the flood
protection elevation;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
      (3)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect,
through the use of a Federal Emergency Management Agency floodproofing
certificate, that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with
§
151.070(B)(1) and (B)(2).
   (C)   In Zone AO areas with no elevations specified, the structure shall
have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated at least two feet above the
highest adjacent natural grade.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 151.071 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Relief to the elevation or dry floodproofing standards may be granted
for accessory structures containing no more than 600 square feet.
   (B)   Such structures must meet the following standards.
      (1)   They shall not be used for human habitation.
      (2)   They shall be constructed of flood resistant materials.
      (3)   They shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the
minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
      (4)   They shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation.
      (5)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated or floodproofed to or above the level of the flood protection
elevation.
      (6)   They shall meet the opening requirements of §
151.068(E)(3).
(Ord. 03-13, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 151.072 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   Recreational vehicles must meet at least one of the following standards.
   (A)   They shall not be located on sites in special flood hazard areas for
more than 180 days.
   (B)   They must be fully licensed and ready for highway use.
   (C)   They must meet all standards of §
151.070.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 151.073 ABOVE GROUND GAS OR LIQUID STORAGE TANKS.
   All above ground gas or liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to prevent
flotation or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic
loads.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 151.074 ASSURANCE OF FLOOD-CARRYING CAPACITY.
   Pursuant to the purpose and methods of reducing flood damage stated in these
regulations, the following additional standards are adopted to assure that the
reduction of the flood-carrying capacity of watercourses is minimized.
   (A)   Development in floodways.
      (1)   In floodway areas, development shall cause no increase in flood
levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge. Prior to issuance of
a floodplain development permit, the applicant must submit a hydrologic and
hydraulic analysis, conducted by a registered professional engineer,
demonstrating that the proposed development would not result in any increase in
the base flood elevation; or
      (2)   Development in floodway areas causing increases in the base flood
elevation may be permitted provided all of the following are completed by the
applicant:
         (a)   Meet the requirements to submit technical data in §
151.048(A);
         (b)   An evaluation of alternatives, which would not result in
increased base flood elevations and an explanation why these alternatives are
not feasible;
         (c)   Certification that no structures are located in areas that would
be impacted by the increased base flood elevation;
         (d)   Documentation of individual legal notices to all impacted
property owners within and outside the community, explaining the impact of the
proposed action on their property; and
         (e)   Concurrence of the Mayor of the village and the chief executive
officer of any other communities impacted by the proposed actions.
   (B)   Development in riverine areas with base flood elevations but no
floodways.
      (1)   In riverine special flood hazard areas identified by FEMA where
base flood elevation data are provided but no floodways have been designated,
the cumulative effect of any proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, shall not increase the base flood
elevation more than one foot at any point. Prior to issuance of a floodplain
development permit, the applicant must submit a hydrologic and hydraulic
analysis, conducted by a registered professional engineer, demonstrating that
this standard has been met.
      (2)   Development in riverine special flood hazard areas identified by
FEMA where base flood elevation data are provided but no floodways have been
designated causing more than one foot increase in the base flood elevation may
be permitted provided all of the following are completed by the applicant:
         (a)   An evaluation of alternatives which would result in an increase
of one foot or less of the base flood elevation and an explanation why these
alternatives are not feasible; and
         (b)   Divisions (A)(2)(a) and (A)(2)(c) through (A)(2)(e) above.
   (C)   Alterations of a watercourse.
      (1)   For the purpose of these regulations, a watercourse is altered when
any change occurs within its banks. The extent of the banks shall be
established by a field determination of the “bankfull stage”. The field
determination of “bankfull stage”Stream Channel Reference Sites: An Illustrated
Guide to Field Technique or other applicable publication available from a
federal, state or other authoritative source.
      (2)   For all proposed developments that alter a watercourse, the
following standards apply.
         (a)   The bankfull flood-carrying capacity of the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse shall not be diminished. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit, the applicant must submit a description of the
extent to which any watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of the
proposed development, and certification by a registered professional engineer
that the bankfull flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse will not be
diminished.
         (b)   Adjacent communities, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the
Ohio Department of Natural Resources, Division of Water, must be notified prior
to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse. Evidence of such notification
must be submitted to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
         (c)   The applicant shall be responsible for providing the necessary
maintenance for the altered or relocated portion of said watercourse so that
the flood-carrying capacity will not be diminished. The Floodplain
Administrator may require the permit holder to enter into an agreement with the
village specifying the maintenance responsibilities. If an agreement is
required, it shall be made a condition of the floodplain development permit.
         (d)   The applicant shall meet the requirements to submit technical
data in §
151.048(A)(1)(c) when an alteration of a watercourse results in the relocation
or elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 3-25-2013)
APPEALS AND VARIANCES
§ 151.085 APPEALS BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The Village Board of Building and Zoning Appeals, as established in
the village’s zoning regulations, is hereby appointed to serve as the Appeals
Board for these regulations.
   (B)   Records of the Appeals Board shall be kept and filed in the offices of
the Village of Bluffton Council Chambers, 154 N. Main Street, Bluffton, Ohio
45817.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 151.086 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Appeals Board shall hear and decide appeals where it is alleged
there is an error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by
the Floodplain Administrator in the administration or enforcement of these
regulations.
   (B)   Authorize variances in accordance with §
151.088 of these regulations.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 151.087 APPEALS.
   Any person affected by any notice and order, or other official action of the
Floodplain Administrator may request and shall be granted a hearing on the
matter before the Appeals Board provided that such person shall file, within 30
days of the date of such notice and order, or other official action, a brief
statement of the grounds for such hearing or for the mitigation of any item
appearing on any order of the Floodplain Administrator’s decision. Such appeal
shall be in writing, signed by the applicant and be filed with the Floodplain
Administrator. Upon receipt of the appeal, the Floodplain Administrator shall
transmit said notice and all pertinent information on which the Floodplain
Administrator’s decision was made to the Appeals Board. Upon receipt of the
notice of appeal, the Appeals Board shall fix a reasonable time for the appeal,
give notice in writing to parties in interest, and decide the appeal within a
reasonable time after it is submitted.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 151.088 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Any person believing that the use and development standards of these
regulations would result in unnecessary hardship may file an application for a
variance.
   (B)   The Appeals Board shall have the power to authorize, in specific
cases, such variances from the standards of these regulations, not inconsistent
with federal regulations, as will not be contrary to the public interest where,
owning to special conditions of the lot or parcel, a literal enforcement of the
provisions of these regulations would result in unnecessary hardship.
      (1)   Application for a variance.
         (a)   Any owner, or agent thereof, of property for which a variance is
sought shall make an application for a variance by filing it with the
Floodplain Administrator, who upon receipt of the variance shall transmit it to
the Appeals Board.
         (b)   Such application at a minimum shall contain the following
information: name, address, and telephone number of the applicant; legal
description of the property; parcel map; description of the existing use;
description of the proposed use; location of the floodplain; description of the
variance sought; and reason for the variance request.
      (2)   Notice for public hearing. The Appeals Board shall schedule and
hold a public hearing within 30 days after the receipt of an application for a
variance from the Floodplain Administrator. Prior to the hearing, a notice of
such hearing shall be given in one or more newspapers of general circulation in
the community at least ten days before the date of the hearing.
      (3)   Public hearing.
         (a)   At such hearing, the applicant shall present such statements and
evidence as the Appeals Board requires.
         (b)   In considering such variance applications, the Appeals Board
shall consider and make findings of fact on all evaluations, all relevant
factors and standards specified in other sections of these regulations and the
following factors:
            1.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
            2.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
            3.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents
to flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
            4.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed
facility to the community;
            5.   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
that are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
            6.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
            7.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
            8.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
            9.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
            10.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
            11.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems and streets and
bridges.
         (c)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
            1.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
            2.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship due to the physical characteristics of the
property. Increased cost or inconvenience of meeting the requirements of these
regulations does not constitute an exceptional hardship to the applicant;
            3.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights beyond that which is allowed in these
regulations; additional threats to public safety; extraordinary public expense,
nuisances, fraud on or victimization of the public; or conflict with existing
local laws;
            4.   A determination that the structure or other development is
protected by methods to minimize flood damages; and
            5.   A determination that the variance is the minimum necessary,
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
         (d)   Upon consideration of the above factors and the purposes of
these regulations, the Appeals Board may attach such conditions to the granting
of variances, as it deems necessary to further the purposes of these
regulations.
      (4)   Other conditions for variances.
         (a)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if
any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
         (b)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing items in divisions (B)(3)(b)1. to (B)(3)
(b)11. above have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond one-
half acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases.
         (c)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest
floor elevation below the base flood elevation and the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 151.089 PROCEDURE AT HEARINGS.
   (A)   All testimony shall be given under oath.
   (B)   A complete record of the proceedings shall be kept, except
confidential deliberations of the Board, but including all documents presented
and a verbatim record of the testimony of all witnesses.
   (C)   The applicant shall proceed first to present evidence and testimony in
support of the appeal or variance.
   (D)   The Administrator may present evidence or testimony in opposition to
the appeal or variance.
   (E)   All witnesses shall be subject to cross-examination by the adverse
party or his or her counsel.
   (F)   Evidence that is not admitted may be proffered and shall become part
of the record for appeal.
   (G)   The Board shall issue subpoenas upon written request for the
attendance of witnesses. A reasonable deposit to cover the cost of issuance and
service shall be collected in advance.
   (H)   The Board shall prepare conclusions of fact supporting its decision.
The decision may be announced at the conclusion of the hearing and thereafter
issued in writing or the decision may be issued in writing within a reasonable
time after the hearing.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 151.090 APPEAL TO THE COURT.
   Those aggrieved by the decision of the Appeals Board may appeal such
decision to the County Court of Common Pleas, as provided in R.C. Chapter 2506.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 3-25-2013)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.105 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, erected, constructed,
reconstructed, repaired, extended, converted, enlarged or altered without full
compliance with the terms of these regulations and all other applicable
regulations which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of these regulations,
unless specifically exempted from filing for a development permit as stated in
§
151.047.
   (B)   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit shall be a violation
of these regulations and shall be punishable in accordance with §
151.999.
   (C)   Floodplain development permits issued on the basis of plans and
applications approved by the Floodplain Administrator authorize only the use,
and arrangement, set forth in such approved plans and applications or
amendments thereto. Use, arrangement or construction contrary to that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of these regulations and punishable in
accordance with §
151.999.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 3-25-2013) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.106 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Whenever the Floodplain Administrator determines that there has been a
violation of any provision of these regulations, he or she shall give notice of
such violation to the person responsible therefore and order compliance with
these regulations as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Such notice and order shall:
      (1)   Be put in writing on an appropriate form;
      (2)   Include a list of violations, referring to the section or sections
of these regulations that have been violated, and order remedial action, which,
if taken, will effect compliance with the provisions of these regulations;
      (3)   Specify a reasonable time for performance;
      (4)   Advise the owner, operator or occupant of the right to appeal; and
      (5)   Be served on the owner, occupant or agent in person.
   (C)   However, this notice and order shall be deemed to be properly served
upon the owner, occupant or agent if a copy thereof is sent by registered or
certified mail to the person’s last known mailing address, residence or place
of business, and/or a copy is posted in a conspicuous place in or on the
dwelling affected.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 3-25-2013)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of these regulations or failure to comply with
any of its requirements shall be deemed to be a strict liability offense, and
shall constitute a fourth degree misdemeanor. Any person who violates these
regulations or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined or imprisoned as provided by the laws of the
village. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the village from taking such
other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. The
village shall prosecute any violation of these regulations in accordance with
the penalties stated herein.
(Ord. 03-13, passed 3-25-2013)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
Overview and Applicability
   
152.001   Title
   
152.002   Administration
   
152.003   Policy
   
152.004   Public purpose
   
152.005   Jurisdiction
   
152.006   Relation to other laws, rules and regulations
   
152.007   Planned unit developments
   
152.008   Amendments
   
152.009   Separability
   
152.010   Variance
   
152.011   Enactment
Definitions
   
152.020   Definitions
Procedure for Division of Land and Subdivision Approval
   
152.035   General
   
152.036   Purpose
   
152.037   Major subdivision
   
152.038   Minor land division (lot split)
   
152.039   Exempted land division
Subdivision Design Standards
   
152.050   General statement
   
152.051   Conformance to applicable rules and regulations
   
152.052   Subdivision and site design
   
152.053   Street design
   
152.054   Street design standards
   
152.055   Horizontal alignment
   
152.056   Vertical alignment
   
152.057   Intersection design standards
   
152.058   Street classification system
   
152.059   Special street types
   
152.060   Streets for commercial subdivisions
   
152.061   Streets for industrial subdivisions
   
152.062   Sidewalks required in all areas except industrial
   
152.063   Lot design standards
   
152.064   Easements
   
152.065   Flood areas and storm drain ditches
   
152.066   Minimum boundary survey requirements
Requirements for Construction of Improvements
   
152.080   Guarantee for installation of improvements
   
152.081   Construction procedure and material
   
152.082   Boundary surveys, monuments, markers and pins
   
152.083   Street improvements
   
152.084   Street width
   
152.085   Street construction
   
152.086   Street curbs, gutters and sidewalks
   
152.087   Driveways
   
152.088   Lot drains
   
152.089   Sidewalks
   
152.090   Street name signs and street naming
   
152.091   Street and walkway lighting
   
152.092   Street trees
   
152.093   Water supply improvements
   
152.094   Fire protection
   
152.095   Sanitary sewer improvements
   
152.096   Drainage improvements
   
152.097   Utility improvements
   
152.098   Storm water
   
152.099   Oversize and off-site improvements
   
152.100   Off-site extensions
   
152.101   Final inspection
Hillside Regulations
   
152.115   General statement
   
152.116   Determination of average slope
   
152.117   Minimum lot requirements for single-family homes
   
152.118   Grading plan and controls
   
152.119   Cuts and fills
   
152.120   Compaction of fill
   
152.121   Retaining walls
   
152.122   Minimum hillside requirements
   
152.123   Street alignment
   
152.124   Driveways
Required Statements and Signatures to Be Affixed on the Final Plat
   
152.140   General
   
152.141   Description
   
152.142   Owners’ dedication and acknowledgment
   
152.143   Notary Public
   
152.144   Approval by the Village Council
   
152.145   County Auditor
   
152.146   County Recorder
   
152.147   Certification by surveyor
Revisions, Enforcement
   
152.160   Recording of plat
   
152.161   Revision of plat after approval
   
152.162   Sale of land within subdivision
   
152.163   Schedule of fees, charges and expenses
   
152.164   Appeal
 
   
152.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:Pavement design criteria
   
Appendix B:Images
   
Appendix C:Stormwater management and sediment control regulations
OVERVIEW AND APPLICABILITY
§ 152.001 TITLE.
   These regulations shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the
“Subdivision Ordinance of the Village of Bluffton, Ohio” and shall hereinafter
be referred to as “these regulations”.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.002 ADMINISTRATION.
   R.C. Chapter 711 enables the Village of Bluffton to adopt rules and
regulations governing plats and subdivisions of land in the village. The
Village of Bluffton Planning Commission, hereinafter called the Planning
Commission, shall administer these regulations.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.003 POLICY.
   (A)   It is declared to be the policy of the village to consider the
subdivision of land and its subsequent development as subject to the control of
the village, pursuant to any official comprehensive plan for orderly, planned,
safe, efficient and economical development.
   (B)   Land to be subdivided shall be of such character that it can be used
safely for building purposes, and shall not be subdivided until adequate
facilities and improvements such as drainage, water and sewerage are provided,
or a performance bond is filed to assure that the subdivider will make the
required improvements.
   (C)   The existing and proposed public improvements shall conform with and
be related to the proposals shown in the comprehensive plan, capital
improvement program, and development programs of the village. It is intended
that these regulations shall supplement and facilitate the enforcement of the
provisions and standards contained within local building codes, zoning
regulations, stormwater management and sediment control regulations as well as
stormwater design specifications, capital improvement programs and
comprehensive plans.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.004 PUBLIC PURPOSE.
   (A)   Regulation of the subdivision of land and the attachment of reasonable
conditions to land subdivision is an exercise of public police power delegated
by the state to the village pursuant to R.C. Chapter 711. The developer shall
be in compliance with conditions established by the Planning Commission for
design, dedication, improvement, and restrictive use of the land to conform to
the physical and economic development of the village and the health, safety,
and general welfare of the future lot owners of the subdivision and of the
village.
   (B)   The purpose of these regulations is to provide for the harmonious
development of the village by:
      (1)   Promoting the public health, safety and general welfare of the
residents of the village;
      (2)   To promote the safe and efficient movement of people and goods;
      (3)   Furthering the orderly layout and use of land, according to its
capability and suitability;
      (4)   Securing safety from fire, flood, panic and other dangers;
      (5)   Providing adequate light and air;
      (6)   To ensure the most beneficial relationship between the use and
placement of land and buildings thereon;
      (7)   To promote optimal population density;
      (8)   Facilitating adequate provision for transportation, water,
sewerage, drainage, schools, parks, playgrounds and other public requirements;
and
      (9)   Facilitating the further re-subdivision of larger tracts into
smaller parcels of land.
   (C)   The provisions of these regulations are made with reasonable
consideration of the character of village with a view of conserving the value
of the buildings placed upon land, providing the best possible environment for
human habitation, and encouraging the most appropriate use of land throughout
the village.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.005 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Pursuant to R.C. Chapter 711, the village shall adopt general rules,
of uniform application, governing plats and subdivisions of land falling within
its jurisdiction, to secure and provide for the proper arrangement of streets
or other highways in relation to existing or planned streets or highways or to
the comprehensive plan, for adequate and convenient open spaces for traffic,
utilities, access of firefighting apparatus, recreation, light and air, and for
the avoidance of congestion of population.
   (B)   These regulations shall be applicable to all residential, commercial
and industrial subdivision (plats) land within the village. The submission of a
plan for the subdivision of land intended for the development of a mobile home
park, a planned unit development or a commercial shopping center involving
publicly dedicated roads or private drives is required by this chapter. The
Village Council shall have the power of final approval of all plats.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.006 RELATION TO OTHER LAWS, RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of these regulations shall supplement any and all laws of the
state, other resolutions of the Village Council, and any and all rules and
regulations promulgated by the authority of any such law or resolution relating
to the purpose and scope of this chapter. Whenever the requirements of these
regulations are at variance of any other lawfully adopted rules, regulations,
or resolutions, the most restrictive or that imposing the higher standards
shall govern.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.007 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   It is the policy of the village to accept planned unit developments
(PUDs) when necessary to achieve:
      (1)   A maximum choice of living and working environments by allowing a
variety of housing and building types and permitting an increased density per
acre and a reduction in lot dimensions, yards, building setbacks and area
requirements;
      (2)   A more useful pattern of open space and recreation areas and, if
permitted as part of the project, more convenience in the location of accessory
commercial uses and services;
      (3)   A development pattern, which preserves and utilizes natural
topography and geologic features, scenic vistas, trees and other vegetation,
and prevents the disruption of natural drainage patterns;
      (4)   A more efficient use of land than is generally achieved through
conventional development resulting in substantial savings through shorter
utilities and streets; and
      (5)   A development pattern in harmony with land use density,
transportation facilities and community facilities objectives of the
comprehensive plan.
   (B)   If street, storm drainage, water line and sanitary sewer for PUDs are
to be dedicated for public use, they shall be governed by the respective
provisions elsewhere in these subdivision regulations. Issues involving lot
sizes, population densities, lot configurations, open spaces, minimum side and
rear yards, and building configurations are zoning functions and shall be
regulated by the zoning regulations of the village.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.008 AMENDMENTS.
   These regulations may be amended, after public hearings and other
requirements as specified in the appropriate sections of the Ohio Revised Code.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.009 SEPARABILITY.
   If, for any reason, any clause, sentence, division, section or other part of
these regulations should be decided by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
invalid, such judgment shall not affect the validity of these regulations as a
whole or any part thereof, other than the part so held to be invalid.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.010 VARIANCE.
   (A)   Where the Planning Commission finds extraordinary hardships or
practical difficulties may result from strict compliance with these regulations
and/or the purposes of these regulations may be served to a greater extent by
an alternative proposal, it may approve variances to these regulations so that
substantial justice may be done and the public interest secured, provided such
variance shall not have the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of
these regulations.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall not approve variances unless it shall
make findings based upon the evidence presented to it in each specific case
that:
      (1)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
safety, health or welfare or injurious to other property;
      (2)   The conditions upon which the request for a variance is based are
unique to the property for which the variance is sought and are not applicable
generally to other property;
      (3)   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or
topographic conditions of the specific property involved, a particular hardship
to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience, if the
strict letter of these regulations are carried out; and
      (4)   The variances will not in any manner vary the provisions of the
zoning regulations, comprehensive plans or other applicable guidelines and
requirements of these regulations.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.011 ENACTMENT.
   This chapter shall become effective from and after the date of their
approval, adoption, or amendment by the Village Council. Henceforth, any other
subdivision regulations previously adopted by the village shall be deemed to be
repealed. This chapter shall in no way affect any subdivision having received
overall development plan approval prior to the effective date of these
regulations or any amendment thereto, provided, however, that no changes to the
plan, as approved, are introduced by the subdivider.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
DEFINITIONS
§ 152.020 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Interpretation of terms or words. For the purpose of these
regulations, certain terms or words used herein shall be interpreted as
follows.
      (1)   The word “person” includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company or corporation as well as an individual.
      (2)   The present tense includes the future tense, the singular number
includes the plural, and the plural number includes the singular.
      (3)   The word “shall” is a mandatory requirement, the work “may” is a
permissive requirement, and the word “should” is a preferred requirement.
      (4)   The words “used” or “occupied” include the words “intended,
designed or arranged to be used or occupied”.
      (5)   The word “lot” includes the words “plot, parcel and/or tract”.
      (6)   The word “village” where used shall mean the Village of Bluffton.
      (7)   The word “Council” where used shall mean the Village Council of the
Village of Bluffton.
      (8)   The words “Planning Commission” where used shall mean the Planning
Commission of the Village of Bluffton.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACCESS MANAGEMENT PLAN. A roadway design plan, which designates access
locations and their design for the purpose of bringing those portions of
roadway included in the access management plan into conformance with their
access category to the extent feasible.
      ALLEY. See STREET or ROAD.
      BUILDING. A structure designed to be used as a place of occupancy,
storage or shelter.
      BUILDING SETBACK LINE. The line set at uniform distance from the front
lot line or centerline of the dedicated or acquired right-of-way beyond which
no building is allowed to be built.
      CONDOMINIUM. Condominium means and includes the land, together with all
buildings, improvements, and structures thereon, all easements, rights and
appurtenances belonging thereto, and all articles of personal property that
have been submitted to the provisions of R.C. Chapter 5311 and subject to R.C.
Chapter 5311.
      CORNER LOTS. See LOT TYPES.
      COVENANT. A written promise or pledge.
      CUL-DE-SAC. See STREET or ROAD.
      CULVERT. A transverse drain that channels surface water under a bridge,
street or driveway.
      DEAD-END STREET. See STREET or ROAD.
      DENSITY. A unit of measurement, e.g., the number of dwelling units per
acre of land.
         (a)   GROSS DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per acre of land to
be developed.
         (b)   NET DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per acre of land when
including only the acreage devoted to residential uses and exempting such uses
as streets and the like.
      DEVELOPER. Any individual, subdivider, firm, association, syndicate,
partnership, corporation, trust or any other legal entity commencing
proceedings under these regulations to effect a subdivision of land hereunder
for himself, herself or for another.
      DRAWINGS.
         (a)   OVERALL DEVELOPMENT PLAN (PRELIMINARY PLAT). Drawings provided
to the Planning Commission in order to evaluate the developers overall intent
for the project in question. The first step of the major subdivision approval
process.
         (b)   CONSTRUCTION DRAWINGS. Drawings provided to the Planning
Commission providing sufficient detail for local agencies to evaluate
compliance with existing regulations and construction standards. The second
step of the major subdivision approval process.
         (c)   AS-BUILT CONSTRUCTION DRAWINGS. Drawings provided upon
completion of the infrastructure portion of a development that reflect project
completion, including but not limited to required changes due to field
conditions.
         (d)   FINAL PLAT. A revised version of the overall development plan
showing exact locations of lot lines, rights-of-way, easements and dedicated
areas. The final plat is to be recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
The third step of the major subdivision approval process.
      DRIVEWAY. A vehicular travelway used to provide access from a street to
dwelling units or commercial or industrial activities. DRIVEWAYS are designed
for low travel speeds and are often used as, or are integral with, parking
areas for vehicles.
      DWELLING UNIT. Space within a building comprising living, dining,
sleeping room or rooms, storage closets, as well as space and equipment for
cooking, bathing and toilet facilities, all used by one family and its
household employees.
      EASEMENT. Authorization by a property owner for the use by another, and
for a specified purpose, of any designated part of his or her property.
      EXEMPTED LAND DIVISION. Those land divisions having inherent restrictions
associated with their status under R.C. Chapter 711 and include the following:
         (a)   LAND TRANSFER. A conveyance of land between adjoining property
owners.
         (b)   LARGE LOT EXEMPTION. The creation of a new buildable lot greater
than five acres in size, either directly by the division or indirectly by the
division of another parcel and which does not involve the opening, widening, or
extension of a public street or road.
      FLOOD. An overflowing of water, from watercourses, onto land, which is
normally dry.
      FLOODPLAIN. Any area documented as having a 1% or greater chance of
flooding in any one year identified. The term refers to that area designated as
subject to flooding from the base flood (100-year flood) on the flood insurance
rate map (FIRM) prepared by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development and published by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) as
being areas of special flood hazards subject to local floodplain management
regulations.
      FUNCTIONAL CLASSIFICATION. A classification system that defines a public
roadway according to its purposes and hierarchy in the local or statewide
highway system.
      GRADE. The amount of rise or descent of a sloping land surface, usually
measured as a percent where the numbered percent represents the amount of
vertical rise or fall, in feet, for every 100 feet horizontally. For example, a
one-foot vertical rise over 100 horizontal feet represents a 1% slope.
      HIGHWAY DIRECTOR. The Director of the Ohio Department of Transportation.
      HOME OWNER’S ASSOCIATION. A group of homeowners organized to provide
financial and legislative decisions over a group of lots for the maintenance
and upkeep of common areas and related facilities.
      IMPROVEMENTS. Roadway pavement or resurfacing, curbs, gutters, sidewalks,
water lines, sewer lines, storm drains, street lights, flood control and
drainage facilities, street signs, utility lines, landscaping, and other
related matters normally associated with the development of land into building
sites.
      LAND CONTRACT. A legal agreement between a landowner and another person
or persons interested in purchasing real property owned by the landowner,
wherein the landowner agrees to receive regular payments, at specified
intervals for a specified period of time, from the purchaser and at the end of
the specified time period agrees to transfer ownership of the property to the
purchaser.
      LANDSCAPING. The act of changing the natural features of a plot of ground
so as to make it more attractive, as by adding lawns, trees, bushes and/or
ponds.
      LETTER OF CREDIT. A written statement from a bank or loan company,
written against the good standing of a developer, guaranteeing necessary funds,
the amount to equal a professional engineer’s cost estimate for subdivision
improvements, to complete such improvements should the developer fail to
complete them within the time frame and conditions as specified in the
subdivision approval agreements (see also PERFORMANCE BOND, MAINTENANCE BOND or
SURETY BOND).
      LOCATION MAP, VICINITY MAP. A map to the minimum scale of 1:24,000 which
portrays the subdivision to its surrounding area in relation to the existing
road network, major public activity centers, drainage courses, and other
natural features in order to better locate and orientate the subdivision under
review.
      LOT.
         (a)   For purposes of these regulations, a LOT is a parcel of land of
sufficient size to meet minimum zoning requirements for use, coverage and area,
and to provide yards and other open spaces as are herein required.
         (b)   Such LOT shall have frontage on an improved public street, or on
an approved private street, and may consist of:
            1.   A single lot of record;
            2.   A portion of a lot of record; or
            3.   A combination of complete lots of record, of complete lots of
record and portions of lots of record, or of portions of lots of record.
      LOT FRONTAGE. The front of a lot shall be construed to be the property
line along the lot abutting the street. For the purpose of determining yard
requirements on corner lots and reverse frontage lots, all sides of a lot
adjacent to streets shall be considered frontage, and yards shall be provided
in appropriate zoning resolutions.
      LOT MEASUREMENTS. A lot shall be measured as follows.
         (a)   AVERAGE DEPTH OF A LOT IN A PLATTED SUBDIVISION shall be
considered to be the straight line distance between the mid-point of the front
lot line or street right-of-way line and the mid-point of the rear lot line.
         (b)   AVERAGE DEPTH OF A SECTION GROUND PARCEL shall be considered to
be the straight-line distance between the mid-point of the street centerline
and the mid-point of the rear lot line.
         (c)   AVERAGE WIDTH OF A LOT shall be considered to be the straight
line distance between the mid-points of the side lot lines.
      LOT OF RECORD. Any parcel shown as current on the most recent tax maps.
      LOT SPLIT. See MINOR LAND DIVISION.
      LOT TYPES. Terminology used in these regulations with reference to corner
lots, interior lots and through lots is as follows.
         (a)   A CORNER LOT is defined as a lot located at the intersection of
two or more streets. A lot abutting on a curved street or streets shall be
considered a CORNER LOT if the extension of the side lot lines meet at an
interior angle of less than 135 degrees.
         (b)   FLAG LOT is a lot whose only frontage on a public street is
through a narrow strip of land which is generally wide enough to accommodate a
driveway, but too narrow to accommodate any structures.
         (c)   An INTERIOR LOT is a lot other than a corner lot with only one
frontage on a street.
         (d)   A REVERSE FRONTAGE LOT is a lot on which frontage is at right
angles to the general pattern in the area. A REVERSE FRONTAGE LOT may also be a
corner lot. A lot having its rear lot line abutting the right-of-way of a
street or a highway that prohibits access; its access is from a local or
marginal access street.
         (e)   A THROUGH LOT is a lot other than a corner lot with frontage on
more than one street. THROUGH LOTS abutting two streets may be referred to as
double frontage lots and each frontage shall have a front yard.
      MAINTENANCE BOND. An agreement by a subdivider or developer with the
village guaranteeing the maintenance of physical improvements for a period of
two years from the release of the performance bond.
      MAJOR PUBLIC ACTIVITY CENTER. A facility or grouping of facilities that
generate independently/collectively significant pedestrian and/or vehicular
traffic volumes/trips including but not limited to churches, schools, shopping
centers, strip malls, senior centers, skating rinks and related.
      MAJOR SUBDIVISION. Defined pursuant to R.C. Chapter 711 as the creation
of more than five parcels or which involve the opening, widening or extension
of a street or road or easement of access.
      MAJOR THOROUGHFARE PLAN. The Comprehensive Long Range Transportation Plan
adopted by the Lima-Allen County Regional Planning Commission and accepted by
the Ohio Department of Transportation.
      MINOR LAND DIVISION. A division of a parcel of land that does not require
a plat to be approved by the Planning Commission according to R.C. § 711.131. A
MINOR LAND DIVISION, also known as a lot split, is the creation of a buildable
lot of less than five acres in size. The proposed minor land division shall be
located along an existing public roadway and shall not involve the opening,
widening, or extension of any street or road.
      OPEN SPACE. The open space area may include, along with natural
environment features, such as agriculture, floodplains, areas of natural
vegetation, parks and recreation facilities and the like, parking lots and any
other recreational facilities that the Planning Commission deems permissive.
Streets, structure for habitation and the like, shall not be included. Utilized
primarily in PUD developments.
      PERFORMANCE BOND, SURETY BOND or IRREVOCABLE LETTER OF CREDIT. A
guarantee by a subdivider or developer with the village for the amount of the
unfinished infrastructure improvements.
      PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE. Any security that may be accepted by the village
as a guarantee that the improvements required as part of an application for
development that are satisfactorily completed.
      PERSON. An individual, trustee, executor, other fiduciary, corporation,
firm, partnership, association, organization or other entity acting as a unit.
      PHASE. Those individual stages of an approved overall development plan.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD). An area of land, in which a variety of
housing types and/or related commercial and industrial facilities are
accommodated in a pre-planned environment under more flexible standards, such
as lot size and setbacks, than those restrictions that would normally apply
under these regulations. The procedure for approval of such development
contains requirements in addition to those of the standard subdivision, such as
building design principles and landscaping plans.
      PLAT. A map or representation of a piece of land subdivided into lots
with streets, alleys and the like, drawn to scale and subject to recording.
      PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. Any person registered to practice professional
engineering by the State Board of Registration as specified in R.C. § 4733.14.
      PROFESSIONAL SURVEYOR. Any person registered to practice surveying by the
State Board of Registration in accordance with R.C. § 4733.14.
      PUBLIC WAY. An alley, avenue, boulevard, bridge, channel, ditch easement,
expressway, freeway, highway, lane, parkway, street, subway, tunnel, viaduct,
walk or other ways in which the general public or public entity have a right,
or which are dedicated whether improved or not.
      REMAINDER PARCEL. The parcel of land left after a minor subdivision or
exempted land division has taken place.
      REPLAT. The process by which existing lots in a platted subdivision are
reconfigured and renumbered to represent changes from the original subdivision
plat. It may include all or portions of a previous subdivision or plat.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land taken or dedicated for use as a public way.
      SETBACK LINE. A line established by the zoning regulations generally of
uniform width, parallel with and measured from the lot line, defining the
limits of a yard in which no building or structure, other than an accessory
building, may be located above ground.
      SEWERS, CENTRAL OR GROUP. An approved sewage disposal system, which
provides a collection network and disposal system and central sewage treatment
facility for a single development, community or region.
      SEWERS, ON-SITE. A septic tank and secondary treatment system on an
individual lot which utilizes an aerobic bacteriological process, or an equally
satisfactory process, for the elimination of sewage, and provides for the
proper and safe disposal of the effluent, subject to the approval of health and
sanitation officials having jurisdiction.
      SIGHT DISTANCE TRIANGLE, CLEAR. An area of unobstructed vision at street
intersections, bounded by a line of sight (eye of the driver at three and
three-quarters feet above the road at the centerline to an object six inches in
height) at the centerline of the intersecting street; distances along the
centerline of the street by classification will determine the size of the
triangle. No vegetation, structures or ground shall project vertically into
this area to restrict the view.
      SIDEWALK. The portion of the road right-of-way, which is improved for the
use of pedestrian traffic.
      STOPPING SIGHT DISTANCE. The distance down a roadway for which a motorist
is able to have an unobstructed sight. STOPPING SIGHT DISTANCE is reduced by
vertical and horizontal road curvature, fixed objects on the side of the road,
and overhanging vegetation.
      STREET or ROAD. A PUBLIC ROAD is one which has been dedicated to the
pubic use by the owner of the property and accepted by the local government for
public use and maintenance. All STREETS or ROADS shall be built to the design
and construction standards of the village as herein described. PRIVATE DRIVES
are simply easements of access and egress granted by the owner of the land to
others maintained under private ownership typically a homeowner’s association.
Such easements of access/egress are permitted only in condominium and apartment
complexes or industrial developments and do not provide required frontage for
any further land division and are exempt from roadway design and construction
standards as described herein.
         (a)   ALLEY. A public right-of-way primarily for secondary access by
vehicles to the rear or side of a property abutting on another street. ALLEYS
shall not be approved in residential subdivisions, except where justified by
extreme conditions. ALLEYS may be required in commercial and industrial
districts if other provisions cannot be made for adequate service access. The
minimum width for ALLEYS shall be 20 feet for the right-of-way and 18 feet for
the pavement width.
         (b)   ARTERIAL STREET. Major thoroughfares designed to carry traffic
between municipalities and other activity centers and to provide connections
with major state and interstate roadways. No on-street parking shall be
permitted.
         (c)   COLLECTOR STREET. Collectors distribute traffic between lower
order local roadways and higher order arterials. Their purpose is primarily to
promote free traffic flow and direct access for adjoining lots should be
limited where possible. Collectors shall not be used for on-street parking and
may provide linkages to adjoining developments to improve circulation.
         (d)   CUL-DE-SAC. A local street that has a single means of access and
that terminates in a circular vehicular turnaround. CUL-DE-SACS should be
encouraged where feasible to the extent that they provide low traffic volumes
and neighborhood identity. The Planning Commission may disapprove an overall
development plan containing more than three cul-de-sac streets and no through
streets.
         (e)   DEAD-END STREET. A street having only one inlet/outlet for
vehicular traffic. PERMANENT DEAD-END STREETS shall not be permitted except as
cul-de-sacs. TEMPORARY DEAD-END STREETS shall be permitted only as part of an
approved overall development plan.
         (f)   LOCAL STREET/ROADWAY. Provide access to residential, open space,
commercial, industrial or other abutting property. LOCAL ROADWAYS include
subcollector streets, residential streets and cul-de-sac streets. Other local
roadways are classified as special street types.
         (g)   LOOP STREET. A type of local street, each end of which
terminates at an intersection with the same street from which it originated.
         (h)   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET, FRONTAGE STREET or SERVICE ROAD. A local
or collector street, parallel and adjacent to an arterial or collector street,
providing access to abutting properties and protection from arterial or
collector streets.
         (i)   RESIDENTIAL STREET. Has a length of 1,000 feet or less, connect
to only two other streets and are the lowest order streets providing access to
residential lots and carrying only the traffic generated by adjoining
residential land uses. Residential subdivisions should be developed so that the
maximum number of housing units have frontage on local residential and cul-de-
sac streets rather than on higher order roads.
         (j)   STUB STREET. A temporary dead-end street having only one lot
fronting on each side of the street.
         (k)   SUBCOLLECTOR. Local streets designed to provide access to
adjoining property and carry traffic between local residential streets or cul-
de-sacs and higher order collectors and arterials. SUBCOLLECTORS shall be
provided when residential subdivisions exceed 100 single-family dwellings, or
the subdivision has only one entrance from a collector or arterial street.
      STREET PLAN. The comprehensive plan by the village indicating the general
location recommended for arterial, collector and local streets.
      SUBDIVIDER. Any individual, developer, firm, association, syndicate,
partnership, corporation, trust, or any other legal entity commencing
proceedings under these regulations to effect a subdivision of land hereunder
for himself, herself or for another.
      THROUGH LOT. See LOT TYPES.
      TRACT. The term is used interchangeably with the term lot, particularly
in the context of subdivisions, where one TRACT is subdivided into several
lots.
      TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY (TIS). A study, which is required to be completed
before an access permit can be approved and issued for any development or land
use which, generates or has the potential to generated traffic volumes
exceeding the threshold value specified. The purpose and need for the TIS is to
determine more precisely the impacts of the access usage, to mitigate these
impacts through the proper location, design, and construction of the access
connection(s), and to ensure the continued functional and operational integrity
of the roadway.
      TRANSPORTATION DIRECTOR. The Director of the Ohio Department of
Transportation.
      VARIANCE. A modification of the strict terms of the relevant regulations
where such modification will not be contrary to the public interest and where
owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not resulting in unnecessary
hardship.
      VICINITY MAP. See LOCATION MAP.
      VILLAGE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. A plan, or any portion thereof, adopted by
the village showing the general location and extent of present and proposed
physical facilities including residential, industrial, and commercial uses,
major streets, parks, schools, and other community facilities. This plan
establishes the goals, objectives and policies of the community.
      WATERSHED. The drainage basin in which the subdivision drains or that
land whose drainage is affected by the subdivision.
      WETLAND. An area of land inundated by water for a portion of each year
resulting in the land possessing unique soil and vegetative types.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
PROCEDURE FOR DIVISION OF LAND AND SUBDIVISION APPROVAL
§ 152.035 GENERAL.
   These regulations have been established in order to protect the public and
the subdivider including his or her agents. By statute (see R.C. Chapter 711),
the Planning Commission must consider all relevant aspects of a subdivision
including feasibility, desirability, safety, roads, water, sewage, compliance
with other regulations, and the physical capability and suitability of the land
to support development. In this respect, specific periods of time have been
established in order to allow reasonable and sufficient periods for public
review and comment.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.036 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to specify the procedures, which
must be followed in order to divide land in the village.
   (B)   This subchapter articulates the procedures for four basic types of
land division:
      (1)   Major subdivision;
      (2)   Minor land division (lot split);
      (3)   Exempted land division; and
      (4)   Replats.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.037 MAJOR SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Major subdivision defined. For the purpose of this chapter, the
following definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
      MAJOR SUBDIVISION. Pursuant to R.C. Chapter 711, the creation of more
than five parcels, inclusive, after the tract of record has been completely
subdivided or which involve the opening, widening or extension of a street or
road or easement of access.
   (B)   Pre-application conference. Applicants interested in securing a major
subdivision approval are strongly encouraged to establish a conference with the
Subdivision Administrator prior to submitting an overall development plan to
the Planning Commission. The purpose of this meeting is to discuss, early and
informally, the purpose and the effect of the subdivision regulations, as well
as the procedures and requirements for subdivision approval. The Subdivision
Administrator may provide the applicant or their respective agent(s) with
information relative to existing comprehensive land use plans, major
thoroughfare or transportation plans, zoning ordinances and floodplain
management regulations, or other pending issues currently of concern. The pre-
application conference should be considered a conceptual review and a courtesy
provided by the Planning Commission, and not part of any formal approval
process.
   (C)   Overall development plan. The developer shall submit to the Planning
Commission an overall development plan showing all contiguous land owned by the
developer and how all of the land is proposed to be used for development. The
purpose of the overall development plan is to provide the Planning Commission
with sufficient information to evaluate the concept of a proposed major
subdivision at an early stage in the process so as to allow such alterations in
plans as may be necessary prior to the applicant incurring the costs required
in the preparation of formal plats.
      (1)   Applications. Applications for overall development plan review and/
or approval shall be available at the office of the Planning Commission. All
submittals shall comply with this section.
      (2)   Overall development plan contents. The applicant shall submit to
the Planning Commission an overall development plan legibly drawn at a suitable
scale (no smaller than one inch equals 100 feet) on 24 inches by 36 inches
paper and containing the following information:
         (a)   Name for file identification. The proposed development shall be
given a name for identification purposes, such name being unique to the
incorporated areas of the village in order to avoid duplication and confusion
with previously recorded plats. Also included shall be the names, addresses and
telephone numbers of the applicant, developer, professional surveyor and
professional engineer that surveyed the land and prepared the plan;
         (b)   Location and description of property. The plan should document
the location of property by quarter-section number, total acreage, township and
range, and the boundary lines of the tract to be subdivided, as well as the
scale, a north arrow and the date of preparation. The subdivision name,
quarter-section number, township and range numbers and township name shall be
in bold one-inch letters at top of plan;
         (c)   Preliminary inventory and analysis. The proposed subdivision
should be presented in relation to existing community facilities, street
transportation modes, shopping centers, manufacturing establishments,
residential developments, educational/recreational facilities and other
existing human-made features, as well as location of wooded areas and other
significant topographic and naturally occurring features within and adjacent to
the plan for a minimum distance of 400 feet. Also included shall be the names
of adjacent subdivisions and the names of owners of adjacent parcels of
unplatted land;
         (d)   Existing/proposed rights-of-way. The layout of existing and
proposed road and railroad rights-of-way, easements, corporation, section lines
and township lines, as well as building setback lines with dimensions to street
right-of-way lines. Label names (or designation) and widths of all rights-of-
way or easements;
         (e)   Existing utilities. The location of utilities adjacent to the
proposed subdivision or the location of the nearest sources of water and
outlets for public facilities for the disposal of sanitary and storm water from
within the proposed subdivision showing their connections with the existing
system(s) shall be documented in the plan;
         (f)   Topography. The overall development plan submittal shall include
copies of the 400 scale Village Engineer’s aerial photography with topography
annotated to reflect the boundaries of the proposed subdivision and the
watershed to be affected;
         (g)    Flood hazard areas and environmental constraints. If any part
of the proposed subdivision is subject to flooding, a line indicating the
special flood hazard, or wetland shall be shown on the plan. Other natural
features of significant public interest sensitive to improvements shall also be
indicated (archeological, cultural, historical, HAZMAT);
         (h)   Zoning. The current zoning classification of the tract as well
as those adjacent parcels within 400 feet shall be indicated on the plan;
         (i)   Building site access. The plan shall reveal the proposed means
of vehicular access from the existing public right-of-way to the tract to be
subdivided without trespass upon adjoining properties. The plan shall indicate
any bridges culverts or cross-over pipe installations required to provide
access to a building site;
         (j)   Proposed development. The plan shall document the proposed
development with respect to and in consideration of division (C)(2)(c) through
this division (C)(2)(j) inclusive. The plan should address the layout, proposed
names or designations and widths of proposed streets, alleys and easements.
Included shall be the layout, numbers and the approximate dimensions and square
footage of proposed lots and typical section of proposed street. Development
designed to be completed in phases shall identify the geographic area by
placing a bold line around area designated as “Phase I”; and
         (k)   Location map. A location map at a scale of not less than 2,000
feet to the inch shall be shown on the plan. This map shall show the location
of all adjacent streets, tract lines and the nearest existing thoroughfares. It
shall also show the most advantageous connections between the streets in the
proposed subdivision and those of neighboring areas. The subdivision shall be
to scale on this map;
      (3)   Submission to the Ohio Department of Transportation. Before any
plan is approved affecting any land within 300 feet of the center line of a
proposed new street or a street for which changes are proposed as described in
the certification to local officials by the Ohio Department of Transportation
of any land within a radius of 500 feet from the point of intersection of said
center line with any public road or highway, the developer shall give notice,
by registered or certified mail to the Ohio Department of Transportation. The
Planning Commission shall not approve the plan for 120 days from the date the
notice is received by the Ohio Department of Transportation. If acquisition at
this time is not in the public interest, or upon the expiration of the 120-day
period, or any extension thereof agreed upon by the Ohio Department of
Transportation and the property owner, the Planning Commission shall, if the
plan is in conformance with all provisions of these regulations, approve the
plan.
      (4)   Overall development plan filing.
         (a)   The developer shall forward five copies of the overall
development plan to the Planning Commission for purposes of study and
recommendation. Said plans, correspondence and supplementary data shall be
presented to the Planning Commission.
         (b)   The developer shall submit the overall development plan three
weeks prior to a scheduled Planning Commission meeting in order to allow for
enough time for the required review process.
      (5)   Subdivision Administrator review and report. Upon receipt of a
filed overall development plan, and upon determining that the application is
complete, the Subdivision Administrator shall forward the application with the
Subdivision Administrator’s report to the Planning Commission for its review
and action. The Subdivision Administrator’s report shall reference all concept
approval recommendations, the conclusions of reviewing offices and agencies and
shall set forth his or her recommendations to the Planning Commission in a
regulatory compliance report.
      (6)   Planning Commission consideration and action.
         (a)   Following receipt by the Subdivision Administrator of a complete
application for overall development plan approval, the application, accompanied
by the Subdivision Administrator’s regulatory compliance report, shall be
placed on the Planning Commission agenda for consideration at the next
regularly scheduled meeting. The Subdivision Administrator shall send written
notice of the date, time and location of the meeting to all affected public
agencies.
         (b)   Within 30 days of the submission to the Planning Commission of
the complete application for overall development plan approval, the Planning
Commission shall approve or disapprove the overall development plan or approve
it with modifications, unless such time is extended by written agreement of the
applicant.
         (c)   The decision of the Planning Commission shall be in writing and
as the basis for its action the Planning Commission shall take into
consideration:
            1.   The conformity of the overall development plan with the
purposes, objectives, standards and criteria of these regulations; and
            2.   The conformity of the overall development plan with all other
applicable laws and rules as determined by concept review and reports requested
from other offices and agencies having jurisdiction.
         (d)   If the decision of the Planning Commission on the overall
development plan is for disapproval, the Planning Commission shall in its
motion, as part of the record, state the reason or reasons for such
disapproval, including the rules or provisions with which the overall
development plan does not comply. The refusal to approve shall be endorsed on
the application and a copy of the plan shall be made a part of the record of
the Planning Commission.
         (e)   When the overall development plan is approved by the Planning
Commission, five prints or copies of the plan shall be provided to and endorsed
by the Planning Commission with one forwarded to the Village Engineer, one held
by the Planning Commission, and one returned to the developer.
      (7)   Time limit to approved development plan. The approval of the
overall development plan shall be effective for the maximum period of 36 months
and shall guarantee that the terms under which the approval was granted will
not be affected by changes to these regulations.
      (8)   Filing. The overall development plan shall be considered officially
filed on the day the application packet is received by the Planning Commission
and shall be so dated. A filing fee shall be charged as indicated in §
152.163 to cover the cost of the review process.
      (9)   Final approval of overall development plans by Village Council.
Upon approval of the overall development plan by the Planning Commission, the
same shall be submitted to the Village Council no later than the next regular
meeting after the approval of the overall development plan by the Planning
Commission. Once submitted, it shall be placed upon the regular agenda of the
Council. A vote shall be called upon the following question: “Shall the action
of the Planning Commission in approving the overall development plan be
affirmed?” A negative vote of two-thirds of the members elected to the Council
would reverse the action of the Planning Commission and remand the matter back
to the Planning Commission for further consideration. An affirmative vote or a
negative vote of less than two- thirds of the members elected to the Council
will affirm the overall development plan with no further action required.
   (D)   Construction drawings. The purpose of the construction drawings is to
provide the Planning Commission with sufficient detailed construction
information to evaluate a major subdivision. The plan should show all of the
information needed to enable the Planning Commission to determine whether the
proposed construction meets the standards and requirements of these
regulations.
      (1)   Construction drawings contents. The developer shall submit
construction drawings to the Planning Commission legibly drawn at a scale as
designated in the following sections. The drawings shall be submitted on sheets
24 inches by 34 inches in size. Match lines shall be drawn when more than one
sheet of each type is presented. All labeling and dimensioning shall be no
smaller than eight-point type. The construction drawings shall contain the
following information.
         (a)   Title sheet. The title sheet shall include the name of the
subdivision, quarter-section number, township and range numbers, township name,
the addresses and telephone numbers of the owner(s) of record, the developer,
the professional engineer and the date of the boundary survey. Also included
shall be a location map of the property showing the boundary lines, accurate to
scale, of the tract to be subdivided. The title sheet must designate the scale
of the location map as well as all other scaled sheets and have a north
directional arrow as well as a signature block. The title sheet shall have on
it the following note:
      “Note: The minimum requirements for construction shall be in accordance
with the current volume of Construction and Materials Specifications of the
State Department of Transportation and the Allen County Standard Construction
Drawings.”
         (b)   Site plan.
            1.   The site plan shall document the location, width and names of
all existing or platted streets or other public ways within or adjacent to the
tract and other important features such as road and railroad rights-of-way,
existing/proposed easements, section lines, corporation and township lines,
pipe lines, pole lines, high tension lines, bridges, waterways, buildings,
cemeteries, as well as noting building setback lines with dimensions to street
right-of-way lines. The site plan also shall document existing topography with
contours at two-foot intervals if the slope of the ground is 15% or less; and
not greater than five feet where the slope is more than 15%; for a distance of
100 feet into the adjacent properties; existing and proposed sewers (sanitary
and storm), water lines and fire hydrants, open ditches, natural drainage
courses, culverts and other underground structures and utility poles and lines
within and adjacent to the tract; streams, buildings, wooded areas or other
features likely to affect the plan. All contours shall be on U.S.G.S. datum.
Scale of site plan shall be no smaller than one inch equals 100 feet.
            2.   The site plan shall delineate the layout, identification
numbers, dimensions and square footage of proposed lots. Also required for
compliance purposes is the calculated square footage of irregular or panhandle
lots without their narrow appendages.
         (c)   Drainage plan. The drainage plan shall reveal the proposed lot
drainage, grading and watershed in order to eliminate the possibility of
exceeding existing sewer capacity and potential flooding. The drainage plan
shall comply with the data requirements and drainage calculations pursuant to
the
Appendix C as well as stormwater design specifications.
         (d)   Plan and profile sheets. The plan and profile sheets shall be
prepared in accordance with applicable design standards of §§ 152.050 through
152.066 showing all pertinent elevations, grades and locations of proposed
roadways, sewers, waterlines and their appurtenances. Documented shall be the
scale and directional arrow. Also to be documented shall be the radii, internal
angles, points of curvature, tangent bearings, lengths of arcs and lengths and
bearings of chords of all applicable streets within the proposed development.
Plan scale shall be no smaller than one inch equals 20 feet.
         (e)   Cross-section sheets. Cross-sections of all roadways will be
required at intervals of every 100 feet. Cross-sections will also be required
at all existing and proposed manholes, cross-over pipes under roadways and at
catch basins.
            1.   The cross-sections shall be taken during an actual field
survey of the existing land surface extending from the centerline of the
proposed roadway to ten feet beyond the proposed right-of-way lines.
            2.   Cross-sections shall show existing and proposed land surfaces,
roadside ditches and all above-ground and below-ground improvements including
waterlines, sewers, manholes, catch basins, culverts with their necessary
elevations, grades and designations.
            3.   Cross-sections shall be drawn to horizontal and vertical
scales of one inch equals five feet.
         (f)   Typical section sheet. The typical section of the proposed
roadway shall show proposed construction items and all pertinent dimensions and
shall be drawn to horizontal and vertical scales of one inch equals five feet.
         (g)   Construction details sheet. All standard construction drawings,
(roadways, storm sewers, waterlines and sanitary detail drawings) that apply to
the proposed subdivision shall appear on this sheet.
      (2)   Submission of construction drawings.
         (a)   The developer shall forward five copies of the overall
development plan to the Planning Commission for purposes of study and
recommendation.
         (b)   The developer shall submit the construction drawings three weeks
prior to a regularly scheduled Planning Commission meeting in order to allow
time for the required review process.
      (3)   Subdivision Administrator review and report. Upon receipt of the
filed construction drawings, and upon determining that the application is
complete, the Subdivision Administrator shall forward the application with the
Subdivision Administrator’s report to the Planning Commission for its review
and action. The Subdivision Administrator’s report shall reference all concept
approval recommendations, the conclusions of reviewing offices and agencies and
shall set forth their recommendations to the Planning Commission in a
regulatory compliance report.
      (4)   Planning Commission consideration and action.
         (a)   Following receipt by the Subdivision Administrator of a complete
set of construction drawings, the plans shall be placed on the agenda for
consideration at the next regularly scheduled meeting. The Subdivision
Administrator shall send written notice of the date, time and location of the
meeting to all affected public agencies and the political subdivision in which
the proposed subdivision is located.
         (b)   Within 30 days of the submission to the Planning Commission of
the complete set of construction drawings, the Planning Commission shall
approve or disapprove the construction drawings or approve with modifications,
unless such time is extended by written agreement of the applicant.
         (c)   The decision of the Planning Commission shall be in writing and
as the basis for its action the Planning Commission shall take into
consideration:
            1.   The conformity of the construction drawings with the purposes,
objectives, standards and criteria of these regulations; and
            2.   The conformity of the construction drawings with the overall
development plan and with all other applicable laws and rules as determined by
concept review and reports requested from other offices and agencies having
jurisdiction.
         (d)   If the decision of the Planning Commission on the construction
drawings is for disapproval, the Planning Commission shall in its motion, as
part of the record, state the reason or reasons for such disapproval, including
the rules or provisions with which the construction drawings do not comply. The
refusal to approve shall be endorsed on the application and a copy of the plan
shall be made a part of the record of the Planning Commission.
         (e)   When the construction drawings are approved by the Planning
Commission, five prints or copies of the plan shall be provided to and endorsed
by the Planning Commission with one forwarded to the Village Engineer, one held
by the Planning Commission, and one returned to the developer.
      (5)   Approval period. The approval of the construction drawings shall be
effective for a period of 12 months and shall guarantee that the terms under
which the approval was granted will not be affected by changes to these
regulations. The Planning Commission may extend the approval period upon
receiving a letter from the developer, subject to re-submittal for review and
payment of the fees for another 12-month period.
      (6)   Preconstruction meeting. A meeting shall be held, before
construction begins, with all governing agencies and utility companies. The
consultant is to make notification to agencies and bring copies of the approved
construction drawings.
      (7)   Regulations governing improvements. The drawings and specifications
of improvements in the proposed subdivision shall be a set of construction and
utility plans prepared by a professional engineer, registered in the state. The
plans shall include typical sections, plans and profile views, construction
details, design calculations and estimates of quantities. All typical sections
and major engineering details to be used on any particular street shall be
approved in advance by the appropriate government agencies before the Planning
Commission approves the plans. Construction drawings with all approved
revisions shall be received by the appropriate government agencies before
construction may begin. Prior to granting of approval of the final plat, the
developer shall have installed the minimum required improvements for the
subdivision or if the required improvements have not been installed, the
developer shall file a performance bond in the amount of 100% of the estimated
construction cost of the installation of the improvements. The bond shall be in
the form as established by the Planning Commission, and shall be subject to the
approval of the Planning Commission, or shall have furnished a performance bond
of the amount of the estimated construction cost of the ultimate installation
and the initial maintenance of the improvements. Before the performance bond is
accepted, it shall be approved by the Council of the village.
      (8)   Completion of construction.
         (a)   Upon completion of the construction as shown on the drawings,
the Planning Commission may conditionally accept the improvements made by the
owner or developer.
         (b)   This acceptance is conditioned upon:
            1.   The posting of a maintenance bond; and
            2.   Submission of a set of as-built drawings.
      (9)   Maintenance bond.
         (a)   The developer shall guarantee all of the required subdivision
improvements for a period of two years from the date such improvements are
given conditional approval. This guarantee shall include any and all defects
and deficiencies in workmanship and materials. The developer shall be
responsible for the cost of all labor, materials, equipment and other
incidentals required to maintain, repair and replace any or all of such
improvements and to maintain them in good and proper condition, excluding
ordinary wear and tear and damage by utility companies, but including filling
trenches and restoring lawns, yards, streets, sewers, waterlines, pipelines,
and other original installations during the two-year guarantee period. In the
event the developer fails to make such maintenance, repairs or replacements
within 30 days after notice in writing by the Planning Commission, or in the
event of an emergency which may endanger life or property, the Planning
Commission may authorize maintenance, repairs or replacements to make, or cause
to be made, such maintenance, repairs or replacements at the expense of such
developer.
         (b)   In order to indemnify the village for the expense of any such
repairs or replacements made by or at the direction of a government agency, a
guarantee shall be made by filing with the village satisfactory evidence of one
of the following as a bond in an amount equal to 10% of the construction cost
of all installations of improvements, or a minimum of $10,000, whichever is
larger:
            1.   A maintenance bond;
            2.   A certified check; or
            3.   A certificate of deposit or an irrevocable letter of credit
made out to the Planning Commission.
      (10)   Removal of maintenance bond. The village will release the
maintenance bond at the end of the two-year maintenance period provided there
are no outstanding problems that need to be corrected.
      (11)   Final approval of construction drawings by Village Council. Upon
approval of the construction drawings by the Planning Commission, the same
shall be submitted to the Village Council no later than the next regular
meeting after the approval of the construction drawings by the Planning
Commission. Once submitted, it shall be placed upon the regular agenda of the
Council. A vote shall be called upon the following question: “Shall the action
of the Planning Commission in approving the construction drawings be affirmed?”
A negative vote of two-thirds of the members elected to the Council would
reverse the action of the Planning Commission and remand the matter back to the
Planning Commission for further consideration. An affirmative vote or a
negative vote of less than two-thirds of the members elected to the Council
will affirm the construction drawings with no further action required.
   (E)   Final plat.
      (1)   The subdivider shall submit a final plat of the subdivision. If the
construction drawings have been previously approved, or conditionally approved,
the final plat shall conform to the construction drawings or incorporate
required changes as the case may be. The final plat shall be prepared by a
professional surveyor, registered in the state.
      (2)   The purpose of a final plat is to ensure that all conditions,
engineering plans and other requirements have been completed or fulfilled and
that required improvements have been installed, or guarantees properly posted
for their completion, prior to recording the final plat of the subdivision.
         (a)   Final plat application. The developer having received approval
or conditional approval of the construction drawings of the proposed
subdivision may submit an application for approval of a final plat to the
Planning Commission prior to the next meeting date of the Planning Commission.
An application shall be considered officially submitted and filed when the
Subdivision Administrator finds that the application is complete.
         (b)   Final plat contents.
            1.   The final plat shall conform to the overall development plan
and construction drawings. The final plat and the supplementary information
shall be prepared by a professional surveyor. The final plat shall be submitted
on Mylar. It shall be drawn at a scale of not less than 100 feet to the inch,
and shall be 18 inches by 23 inches in size with a two-inch margin on the left
side (18-inch side) for binding. All labeling and dimensioning shall be no
smaller than eight-point type. Each sheet shall be numbered and the relation of
one sheet to another clearly shown.
            2.   The final plat submission shall consist of:
               a.   The final plat;
               b.   The dedicator’s plat; and
               c.   The covenants, restrictions and statements.
            3.   Signature blocks designated in §§
152.140 through
152.147 of these regulations shall contain the following information:
               a.   Name and description of property. The name of the
subdivision, location by quarter-section, range and township, or by other
survey number, date, north arrow, scale and acreage. If the development lies in
more than one section, acreage is to be broken down by section. The name,
address and telephone number of the developer and the professional surveyor who
prepared the plat, and appropriate state registration number and seal shall
also be provided. In addition, a signature block shall be provided as required
in §§
152.140 through
152.147;
               b.   Boundaries. Plat boundaries based on accurate traverse,
with angular and linear dimensions related to original section stones or
established section corners shall be provided. All dimensions, linear and
angular, shall be determined by an accurate control survey. The minimum
boundary survey requirements on the final plat and dedicator’s plat shall be as
required by the Standards Governing Conveyances of Real Property in Allen or
Hancock County, Ohio and The Minimum Standards for Boundary Surveys in the
State of Ohio (effective May 1, 1980) as issued by the State Board of
Registration for professional engineers and surveyors, as provided for in R.C.
§ 4733.07. The plat shall document bearings and distances to the nearest
established street lines or other recognized permanent monuments;
               c.   Streets and lot lines. Exact locations, rights-of-way, and
names of all streets within and adjoining the plat, and building setback lines.
The radius, internal angles, points of curvature, tangent bearings, lengths of
arcs, and lengths and bearings of chords of all applicable streets within the
plats. In addition, all lot lines with bearings shown in degrees, minutes,
seconds and lengths shown in feet and hundredths of feet;
               d.   Definition of easement lines. The final plat shall document
all easements and rights-of-way provided for public services or utilities, and
shall be properly identified as to use and geometrically shown on the final
plat. Non-parallel easement lines shall be delineated where they intersect all
lot lines, street lines or section lines;
               e.   Monuments. All monuments should be in place at the time of
final inspection approval of the subdivision, but no later than six months from
recording of the final plat. Certification by a professional surveyor to the
effect that the plat represents a survey made by the surveyor, that the
monuments shown thereon exist as located and that all dimensional details are
correct. The location and description of all monuments, markers and pins shall
be as specified in §
152.082;
               f.   Public areas. Accurate outlines of areas to be dedicated or
reserved for public use, or any area to be reserved for the common use of all
property owners. The use and accurate boundary locations shall be shown for
each parcel of land to be dedicated;
               g.   Restrictions and covenants. Restrictions and covenants that
the developer intends to include with the deeds to the lots in the subdivision;
               h.   Dedicator’s plat. A dedicator’s plat shall be included
showing the boundary of all land owned by the developer including land adjacent
to the proposed subdivision, but excluding the proposed subdivision itself;
               i.   Notarized certification. Notarized certification by the
owner or owners of the adoption of the plat and the dedication of streets and
other public areas; and
               j.   Statements and signatures. Statements and signature blocks
as designated in §§
152.140 through
152.147 of these regulations.
   (F)   Filing of the final plat. The final plat shall be filed with the
Planning Commission and Village Engineer not later than 12 months after the
date of approval of the construction drawings. The Planning Commission may
extend the approval period for the final plat for an additional 12 months upon
receiving a letter from the developer.
   (G)   Approval of the final plat. 
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall approve or disapprove the final plat
within 30 days after it has been filed, or within such further time as a
developer may agree to. If the plat is disapproved, the grounds for disapproval
shall be stated in the records of the Planning Commission and a copy of said
record shall be forwarded to the developer. The Planning Commission shall not
disapprove the final plat if the developer has done everything that he or she
was required to do and has proceeded in accordance with the conditions and
standards specified in the approved preliminary plan and construction drawings.
If disapproved, the developer shall make the necessary corrections and resubmit
the final plat within 30 days to the Planning Commission for its final
approval.
      (2)   Upon approval of the final plat by the Planning Commission, the
same shall be submitted to the Village Council no later than the next regular
meeting after the approval of the final plat by the Planning Commission. Once
submitted, it shall be placed upon the regular agenda of the Council. A vote
shall be called upon the following question: “Shall the action of the Planning
Commission in approving the final plat be affirmed?” A negative vote of two-
thirds of the members elected to the Council would reverse the action of the
Planning Commission and remand the matter back to the Planning Commission for
further consideration. An affirmative vote or a negative vote of less than two-
thirds of the members elected to the Council will affirm the final plat with no
further action required.
      (3)   If a plat is refused by the Planning Commission and or the Village
Council, the developer submitting the plat which the Planning Commission or
Village Council refused to approve may file a petition within 60 days after
such refusal in the Court of Common Pleas in the county in which the land
described in said plat is situated to reconsider the action of the Planning
Commission and Village Council.
   (H)   Recording of approved final plat. Upon approval of the final plat
submission by the Planning Commission, inked Mylar tracings with original
signatures shall be presented by the developer to the County Engineer’s tax map
office for approval of transfer after which the plat may be transferred to the
County Auditor then presented to the County Recorder for record. Recordings
shall take place within six months of final plat approval by the Planning
Commission and Village Council. If construction on the subdivision has not been
completed, a bond or letter of credit shall be approved by the Planning
Commission before the final plat may be recorded, in accordance with division
(D)(7) above.
   (I)   Replats. A replat is an alteration of existing lot lines or other
conditions established as of January 1, 1990, to all or part of an existing
platted subdivision.
      (1)   Application and contents. If a developer and/or owner(s) wish to
replat, the following procedure shall be followed:
         (a)   The applicant shall submit to the Subdivision Administrator a
final plat complete with all the information required in §
152.038 of this subchapter; and
         (b)   Where lots being replatted have existing structures located on
the parcel, then a separate dimensionally accurate sketch prepared by a
professional surveyor documenting the revised lot lines, together with the
outlines of such structures, shall be submitted.
      (2)   Submittal and review process. A replat petition is considered
officially submitted and filed once all required information is submitted to
the Subdivision Administrator. All required information for a proposed replat
must be submitted 30 days prior to the next regularly scheduled meeting of the
Planning Commission.
      (3)   Approval of the replat. The Planning Commission shall approve or
disapprove the replat within 30 days after it has been filed, or within such
further time as a developer may agree to. If the replat is disapproved, the
grounds for disapproval shall be stated in the records of the Planning
Commission and a copy of said record shall be forwarded to the developer. If
disapproved, the developer shall make the necessary corrections and resubmit
the replat within 30 days to the Planning Commission for its final approval. If
a replat is refused by the Planning Commission, the developer submitting the
replat which the Planning Commission refused to approve may file a petition
within 60 days after such refusal in the Court of Common Pleas to consider the
action of the Planning Commission.
      (4)   Recording of approved replat. Upon approval of the final replat
submission by the Planning Commission, the inked Mylar tracings with original
signatures shall be presented by the developer to the County Engineer’s tax map
office for approval of transfer after which the replat may be transferred to
the County Auditor then presented to the County Recorder for record. Replats
involving absorption of dedicated street rights-of-way requires a vacation of
street right-of-way.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.038 MINOR LAND DIVISION (LOT SPLIT).
   (A)   Minor land division (lot split) defined. A minor division of land or
lot split is defined pursuant to R.C. § 711.131 as the division of parcels less
than five acres in size which do not involve the opening, widening or extension
of any street or road, or easement of access and does not involve more than
five lots, including the remainder of the original tract.
   (B)   Pre-application conference. Applicants for a minor land division are
strongly encouraged to meet with the Subdivision Administrator prior to
submitting a minor land division application. The purpose of this meeting is to
discuss early and informally the purpose and effect of those regulations and to
familiarize the applicant with applicable zoning regulations; floodplain
regulations; soil drainage and sewage issues; and, available water systems
within the village. It will also acquaint the applicant with local and county-
wide comprehensive plans as well as the review and approval process.
   (C)   Application minor land division. Applications for minor land division
are available at the office of the Village Administrator. The completed
application form for minor land division under five acres must also contain a
deed for proposed minor land division, a survey and a legal description.
      (1)   The applicant must submit a survey prepared by a professional
surveyor in the state and which delineates the dimensions of the proposed
parcel. Also included are to be the dimension and location of proposed lot
lines and property corners by iron pins, corner posts, and/or other monuments.
Existing structures, easements, public facilities, direction of drainage,
bodies of water (including intermittent and perennial streams and rivers) and
road right-of-way. In addition, the survey should document the 100-year
floodplain boundary and floodway, if it exists, anywhere in the original tract,
with the FIRM panel number and flood zone noted on the application form. Said
survey shall have been approved for compliance with the Standards Governing
Conveyances of Real Property in Allen County and/or Hancock County, Ohio.
      (2)   The applicant must submit all applicable fees as established by the
Village Council.
   (D)   Submittal and review process. Applications are considered officially
submitted and filed once all required and pertinent information is submitted to
the Subdivision Administrator. The Subdivision Administrator will review the
proposed division(s) of a parcel and within seven working days either approve
or deny the minor land division. The review and approval of a minor land
division under five acres is required and may be granted when such minor land
division is: located along an existing public road and involves no opening,
widening or extension of any street or easement of access; when no more than
five lots are proposed, including the remainder of the original tract; conforms
to width to depth ratio which does not exceed 1:3 or complies with Table 1
below; and the proposed land division, including the remainder of the original
tract, is not contrary to any other applicable subdivision or zoning
regulations.
Table 1
Land Division Dimension Requirements
Size Acre Minimum Width Feet1 Maximum Depth Feet2 Width to Depth Ratio
Table 1
Land Division Dimension Requirements
Size Acre Minimum Width Feet1 Maximum Depth Feet2 Width to Depth Ratio
0.44      80                  240                 1:3
0.5       90                  270                 1:3
1.0       120                 360                 1:3
1.5       150                 450                 1:3
2.0       170                 510                 1:3
3.0       200                 650                 1:3.2
4.0       200                 871                 1:4.3
5.0       200                 1,089               1:5.5
1   Flag lots must have an access strip of ground which meets local zoning
regulations or is a minimum of 50 feet in width, running way to the body of
the lot.
2   Minor subdivision where the body of the lot is two acres or less should
have a depth/width ratio no greater than 3:1 measured along the sides of the
body portion of the lot. Lots where the body is greater that two acres shall
be in conformance with the schedule.
 
      (1)   Approval. Once an application is officially submitted and filed,
the Subdivision Administrator shall review the proposed division(s) of a
parcel, and if satisfied that such proposed division(s) is (are) not contrary
to applicable platting, subdividing or zoning regulations, shall, within seven
working days, approve such proposed division and upon conveyance for said
parcel(s) shall stamp the same “Approved by the Village Planning Commission: No
Plat Required” and sign and date.
      (2)   Denial. Minor land divisions which are denied by the Subdivision
Administrator pursuant to these regulations may be brought before the Planning
Commission for consideration of a variance from these regulations pursuant to §
152.010 of this chapter.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004; Ord. 05-21, passed - -)
§ 152.039 EXEMPTED LAND DIVISION.
   (A)   Exempt land division defined. These regulations recognize exempted
land divisions. Exempted land divisions do not count against the four minor
land divisions (lot splits). Exempted land divisions have inherent restrictions
associated with their respective exemption pursuant to R.C. Chapter 711. The
various exempted land divisions are as follows:
      (1)   The sale or exchange of parcel(s) less than five acres between
adjoining lot owners may qualify as exempt land divisions. Such divisions shall
be considered exempt given the following circumstances:
         (a)   The new lot(s) conform to the width to depth ratio which does
not exceed one to three (1:3) or complies with Table 1 in §
152.038 of this subchapter; and
         (b)   The proposed land division, including the remainder of the
original tract, is not contrary to any other applicable regulations.
      (2)   The creation of parcel(s) five acres or more in size may qualify as
exempt land divisions. Such divisions shall be considered exempt given the
following circumstances:
         (a)   It can be clearly demonstrated that the parcel(s) has direct
frontage on an existing public road and does not create any new access of
easement; and
         (b)   The proposed land division is not contrary to any other
applicable regulations.
   (B)   Application for exempted land division. Applications for an exempted
land division review and/or approval are available at Village Administration
Building. The completed application form must contain a deed of proposed
exempted land division, a survey and a legal description.
      (1)   The applicant must submit a survey by a professional surveyor in
the state revealing the establishment of existing and proposed lot lines,
property corners by iron pins, corner posts and/or other monuments. Survey
shall have been approved for compliance with the Standards Governing
Conveyances of Real Property in Allen and Hancock County, Ohio.
      (2)   The applicant must submit all applicable fees as established by the
Village Council.
   (C)   Submittal and review process. Applications are considered officially
submitted and filed once all required and pertinent information is submitted to
the Subdivision Administrator. The Subdivision Administrator will review the
proposed division(s) of a parcel and within seven working days either approve
or deny the exempted minor land division.
      (1)   Approval. Once an application is officially submitted and filed,
the Subdivision Administrator shall review the proposed division(s) of a
parcel, and if satisfied that such proposed division(s) is (are) not contrary
to applicable platting, subdividing or zoning regulations, shall, within seven
working days, approve such proposed division and upon conveyance for said
parcel(s) shall stamp the same “Exempted Minor Land Division. Approved by the
Planning Commission” and sign and date.
      (2)   Denial. Minor land divisions which are denied by the Subdivision
Administrator pursuant to these regulations may be brought before the Planning
Commission for consideration of a variance from these regulations pursuant to §
152.010.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 152.050 GENERAL STATEMENT.
   (A)   The purpose of good subdivision and site design is to create a
functional and attractive development, minimize adverse impacts, and ensure
that a project will be an asset to the community. To promote this purpose,
subdivisions shall conform to this subchapter’s standards which are designed to
result in a well-planned community without adding unnecessarily to development
costs. The regulations in §§
152.051 to
152.066 inclusive shall control the manner in which streets, lots and other
elements of a subdivision are arranged on the land. These design controls shall
help ensure convenient and safe streets, creation of usable lots, provision of
space for public utilities, and preservation of land for recreational uses. The
planning of attractive and functional neighborhoods shall be promoted,
minimizing the undesirable features of unplanned, haphazard growth.
   (B)   The Planning Commission has the responsibility for review of the
design of each future subdivision early in its design development. The Planning
Commission shall ensure that all of the requirements of §§
152.051 to
152.066 inclusive are met.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.051 CONFORMANCE TO APPLICABLE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   In addition to the requirements established in these regulations, all
subdivisions shall comply with the following: the comprehensive plan, public
utility plan, and capital improvement programs, including plans for all
streets, drainage systems, and parks shown on the comprehensive plan as adopted
by the village; the special requirements of these regulations and/or
appropriate state agencies; the rules of the Ohio Department of Transportation
if the subdivision or any lot contained therein abuts a state highway or
connected street;
Appendix C as well as stormwater design specifications; and the standards and
regulations adopted by the village.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.052 SUBDIVISION AND SITE DESIGN.
   (A)   Design of the subdivision shall take into consideration existing
village and regional comprehensive plans, and shall be based on a site
analysis. To the maximum extent practicable, development shall be located to
preserve the natural features of the site, to avoid areas of environmental
sensitivity, and to minimize negative impacts and alterations of natural
features. The following specific areas shall be preserved as undeveloped open
space, to the extent consistent with the reasonable utilization of land, and in
accordance with the U.S. and Ohio Constitutions and state or federal
regulations:
      (1)   Unique and/or fragile areas, including wetlands, as may be defined
in Section 404, Federal Water Pollution Act, as amended, and, in Ohio
Environmental Protection Agency (OEPA) standards;
      (2)   Land in the floodway as identified and mapped using the Federal
Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) flood insurance rate maps (FIRM);
      (3)   Habitats of endangered wildlife, as identified on federal and state
lists; and
      (4)   Historically and culturally significant structures and sites, as
listed on the National Register of Historical Places.
   (B)   The development shall be laid out to avoid adversely affecting
groundwater and aquifer recharge; to reduce cut and fill; to avoid unnecessary
impervious cover; to prevent flooding; to provide adequate access to lots and
sites; and, to mitigate adverse effects of noise, odor, traffic, drainage, and
utilities on neighboring properties. The placement of buildings in residential
developments shall take into consideration topography, building height,
orientation and drainage.
   (C)   If the Planning Commission finds that the land proposed to be
subdivided is unsuitable for subdivision development due to conditions which
may endanger health, life, or property as determined by investigations
conducted by the public agencies concerned, then it is determined that in the
best interests of the public, the land should not be developed for the purpose
proposed.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.053 STREET DESIGN.
   The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade construction and location
of all streets shall conform to the comprehensive plan and capital improvement
plan or subsequent amendments thereto, and shall be considered in their
relationship to existing and planned streets, topographical conditions, and
public convenience and safety and in their appropriate relation to the proposed
uses of the land to be served by such streets. The street pattern shall
discourage through traffic in the interior of the subdivision, except on
collector or subcollector streets designed to convey traffic to the exterior of
the subdivision. The subdivider shall provide within the boundaries of the
subdivision plat, the necessary right-of-way for the widening, continuance or
alignment of such streets in conformity with the comprehensive plan.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.054 STREET DESIGN STANDARDS.
   The design and improvement standards contained in Table 2 in this section
are suggested as minimum design standards. All streets shall be designed and
constructed in accordance with the standards specified in Table 2 in this
section,
Appendix A in this chapter, and the adopted county stormwater management and
sediment control regulations (
Appendix C), as well as stormwater design specifications.
Table 2: Street Design Standards
 Local Streets                        FHWA Classification
 Cul-de-sac Residential Sub-collector Collector
Table 2: Street Design Standards
                                                               Local Streets                 FHWA
                                                                                             Classification
                                                               Cul-de- Residential Sub-      Collector
                                                               sac                 collector
Number of lanes                                                2       2           2         3
Street width f/f* curb
   Parking one side f/f curb                                28 ft.  28 ft.      36 ft.    NA
   Parking both side f/f curb                               36 ft.  36 ft.      NA        NA
   No parking f/f curb                                      28 ft.  28 ft.      28 ft.    36 ft.
Border area                                                    11 ft.  11 ft.      12 ft.    12 ft.
                                                               curb/RW curb/RW
Minimum right-of-way                                           50 ft.  50 ft.      60 ft.    80 ft.
Sidewalks                                                      4 ft.   4 ft.       4 ft.     4 ft.
Design speed                                                   25—30 25—30 mph 35 mph    45 mph
                                                               mph
Minimum stopping sight distance                                200 ft. 200 ft.     225 ft.   325 ft.
Minimum centerline radius                                      50 ft.  50 ft.      100 ft.   575 ft. (10
                                                                                             degrees)
Maximum grade                                                  7%      7%          7%        6%
Minimum curb radii                                             25 ft.  25 ft.      30 ft.    40 ft.
Minimum distance from end of curb radius to first curb cut     20 ft.  20 ft.      30 ft.    40 ft.**
   Minimum tan. curb between drives                         4 ft.   4 ft.       4 ft.     4 ft.
   Maximum amount of property frontage in drives ***        30%     30%         30%       40%
   Maximum width of drive at property line                  24 ft.  24 ft.      24 ft.    24 ft.
Intersection data:
   1. Clear sight distance along each leg                   90 ft.  90 ft.      90 ft.    90 ft.
   2. Minimum curb radius
      Local to                                           25 ft.  25 ft.      30 ft.    40 ft.
      Collector to                                       30 ft.  30 ft.      40 ft.    40 ft.
      Arterial to                                        35 ft.  35 ft.      45 ft.    50 ft.
   3. Minimum centerline offset of adjacent intersection
      Local to                                           150 ft. 150 ft.     200 ft.   200 ft.
      Collector to                                       -       -           -         300 ft.
      Arterial to                                        -       -           -         -
Cul-de-sac data:
   4. Lots
    Maximum number of lots fronting on cul-de-sac (circular 6 ft.   -           -         -
portion)
    Minimum lot frontage at right-of-way line               45 ft.  -           -         -
   5. Street
    Minimum radius of street right-of-way                   60 ft.  -           -         -
    Minimum radius of pavement to face of curb              45 ft.  -           -         -
    Maximum cul-de-sac length (measured to radii of bulb)   600 ft. -           -         -
   6. Driveways
    Maximum percentage of lot frontage occupied by driveway 50%     -           -         -
* f/f - face to face of curb or edge of pavement on streets with no curb
** Industrial and commercial subdivision - 200 ft.
*** Criteria does not apply to cul-de-sac
NA Not Allowed
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.055 HORIZONTAL ALIGNMENT.
   (A)   When there is an angle of deflection of more than five degrees between
two centerline tangent sections of a street, a curve of adequate radius shall
connect them. (See Table 2 in §
152.054.)
   (B)   A minimum tangent between reverse curves should be 50 feet for
collector and arterial streets. Local streets need no tangent section between
reverse curves.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.056 VERTICAL ALIGNMENT.
   (A)   All changes of grade shall be connected by vertical curves of minimum
length in feet equal to 20 times the algebraic difference in the rate of grade
for arterials and industrial streets; for collector and local streets, 15
times. The minimum length of vertical curves shall be 50 feet. See Table 2 in §
152.054 for maximum grade change without vertical curves.
   (B)   Minimum vertical visibility shall conform to Table 2 in § 152.054 of
these regulations and the Ohio Department of Transportation’s regulations in
effect on the date of approval of the preliminary plan.
   (C)   No street grade shall be less than 0.5%, except at sag and crest
points of vertical curves, and in no case shall a street grade be more than 3%
within 100 feet of an intersection nor shall the street grade exceed a maximum
grade of 7%.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.057 INTERSECTION DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   The design and improvement standards for intersections are minimum
standards for all street intersections in the subdivision. These standards are
included in the street design standards, Table 2 in § 152.054. Streets shall
remain tangent for at least 100 feet beyond the point of intersection for
collector streets and 50 feet for local streets. The angle of intersection
shall be between 75 degrees and 90 degrees, with a 90-degree intersection
preferred.
   (B)   Multiple intersections involving junctions of more than two street
shall not be permitted.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.058 STREET CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM.
   (A)   For the purposes of administration, design and enforcement these
regulations recognize the hierarchical classification of area roadways within
the Federal Functional Classification System recommended and approved by the
Lima-Allen County Regional Planning Commission, the Ohio Department of
Transportation (ODOT) and the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA). The
functional classification of area roadways has been somewhat abbreviated herein
with specific distinctions within the higher order roadways collapsed. These
regulations recognize arterial and collector roadways as higher order roadways
eligible for federal funding.
   (B)   Those roadways classified as local roadways are, by default, those
roadways, which have not been identified as eligible for federal funding.
      (1)   Arterial. Arterials are major thoroughfares designed to carry
traffic between municipalities and other activity centers and to provide
connections with major state and interstate roadways. Arterials are identified
in the areas comprehensive transportation plan and recognized by ODOT and FHWA
as roadways eligible for federal funding.
      (2)   Collector. Collectors distribute traffic between lower order local
roadways and higher order arterials. Their purpose is primarily to promote
free-flow traffic and direct access for lots adjoining collectors shall be
limited where possible. Collectors may provide linkages to adjoining
developments to improve circulation. Collectors are identified in the area’s
comprehensive transportation plan and recognized by ODOT and FHWA as roadways
eligible for federal funding.
      (3)   Local roadway. Local roadways provide access to residential, open
space, commercial, industrial or other abutting property. Local roadways
include sub-collector streets, residential streets, and cul-de-sac streets.
Other local roadways are classified as special street types and are addressed
in §
152.059 of these regulations.
         (a)   Sub-collector. Sub-collectors are local streets designed to
provide access to adjoining property and carry traffic between local
residential streets or cul-de-sacs and higher order collectors and arterials.
Sub-collectors shall be provided when residential subdivisions exceed 50
single-family dwellings, or the subdivision has only one entrance from a
collector or arterial street.
         (b)   Residential. Residential streets have a length of 1,000 feet or
less, connect to only two other streets and are the lowest order streets
providing access to residential lots and carrying only the traffic generated by
adjoining residential land uses. Residential subdivisions should be developed
so that the maximum number of housing units have frontage on local residential
and cul-de-sac streets rather than on higher order roads.
         (c)   Cul-de-sac. A local street that has a single means of access and
that terminates in a circular vehicular turnaround. Cul-de-sacs should be
encouraged where feasible to the extent that they provide low traffic volumes
and neighborhood identity. Lengths of cul-de-sacs are limited to 600 feet. An
overall development plan containing more than three cul-de-sac streets and no
through streets may be disapproved by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.059 SPECIAL STREET TYPES.
   The following requirements shall apply to special street types.
   (A)   Dead-end street. A street having only one inlet/outlet for vehicular
traffic. Permanent dead-end streets shall not be permitted except as cul-de-
sacs. Temporary dead-end streets shall be permitted only as part of an approved
overall development plan. In such cases, a temporary turnaround shall be
constructed off the end of the dedicated street. Said turnaround shall have a
design approved by the Planning Commission and shall be maintained by the
developer. A temporary turnaround easement, labeled “privately maintained”,
shall be shown on the final plat. When street construction resumes, the
developer shall remove the turnaround at his or her expense. Temporary dead-end
streets shall not be permitted if they end within 300 feet from an existing
pavement.
   (B)   New half-streets. Dedication of new half-streets shall not be
permitted. Where a dedicated or platted half-street exists adjacent to the
tract being subdivided, the other half shall be platted.
   (C)   Marginal access street. Where a subdivision fronts on an arterial
roadway recognized within the Federal Function Classification System a marginal
access street must be provided. Points of access to the arterial street shall
be spaced at a minimum of 1,320 feet. A planting strip, having a minimum width
of 20 feet, shall be provided between the pavement of the arterial street and
the pavement of the marginal access street. The minimum width of the marginal
access right-of-way shall be 50 feet.
   (D)   Alley. A public right-of-way primarily for secondary access by
vehicles to the rear or side of a property abutting on another street. Alleys
shall not be approved in residential subdivisions, except where justified by a
comprehensive plan approved by the Planning Commission. Alleys may be required
in commercial and industrial districts if other provisions cannot be made for
adequate service access. The minimum width for alleys shall be 20 feet for the
right-of-way and 18 feet for the pavement width.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.060 STREETS FOR COMMERCIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   Streets serving business developments and accessory parking areas shall be
planned to connect with higher order streets so as not to generate traffic on
local residential streets. The intersections of driveways from parking areas
with arterial or collector streets shall be located so as to cause the least
possible interference with traffic movement on the streets, and shall not be
located in less than 200 feet from the intersection of an arterial or collector
street with any other street, and shall be spaced not less than 200 feet from
each other. The Planning Commission may require marginal access streets to
provide maximum safety and convenience. The developer may be required to
separate ingress and egress drives on the requirements of the Planning
Commission.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.061 STREETS FOR INDUSTRIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   Collector streets for industrial subdivisions shall be planned to serve
industrial areas exclusively and shall connect with higher order streets so
that no traffic generated by the industrial subdivision will be directed into
any local residential street. The intersections of service streets from parking
areas with arterial or collector streets shall not be less than 200 feet from
the intersection of the arterial or collector street with any other street.
Streets shall be planned to be extended to the boundaries of any adjoining land
for industry, except for severe physical conditions or if the Planning
Commission or other appropriate local agency finds such extension is not in
accord with the approved plan for the area.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.062 SIDEWALKS REQUIRED IN ALL AREAS EXCEPT INDUSTRIAL.
   Sidewalks shall be required on both sides of the street. Sidewalk width is
specified in Table 2 in § 152.054 (four feet). Sidewalk construction in all
subdivisions shall be according to the village design standards.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.063 LOT DESIGN STANDARDS.
   The following regulations shall govern the design and layout of lots.
   (A)   The lot arrangement and design shall be such that all lots will
provide satisfactory building sites, properly related to topography and the
character of surrounding development.
   (B)   All lots shall conform to or exceed the requirements of these
regulations and the zoning district requirements for the district in which they
are located and the use for which they are intended.
   (C)   Each lot shall have the minimum required frontage at the street right-
of-way line, as required by village zoning except for cul-de-sac lots (see
Table 2 in §
152.054).
   (D)   All side lot lines should be as near as possible to right angles to
street lines and radial to curved street lines.
   (E)   Through lots shall be avoided except that lots having double frontage
on two parallel streets shall be preferable to double tier lots when the
outside-tier of the lots front on an existing collector or arterial street.
When double frontage lots are allowed, those lots shall have driveway access
restricted to the interior street and shall have a restriction on the final
plat prohibiting any access to the exterior collector or arterial street.
   (F)   All lots shall have driveway access restricted to those interior
streets platted as part of the proposed subdivision.
   (G)   No corner lot shall have a width at the building line less than 75
feet.
   (H)   No lot shall have an average depth which is more than three times its
average width, nor shall it have a depth of less than 110 feet except that
whenever a lot fronts upon an exterior curved portion of a street, the
centerline radius of which is 100 feet or less, then the minimum required lot
depth may be reduced to not less than 100 feet.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.064 EASEMENTS.
   Easements at least 20 feet in width centered along the rear or side lot
lines shall be provided where necessary for sanitary and storm sewers, as well
as public utilities such as gas mains and electric lines. Twenty-foot easements
shall be centered along all utilities. Along every drainage channel or stream
within a subdivision, an easement shall be provided for in §
152.066 of these regulations.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.065 FLOOD AREAS AND STORM DRAIN DITCHES.
   (A)   In order to protect the health, safety and general welfare of the
people, the Planning Commission shall require that a floodplain development
permit be issued for any proposed subdivision located within any flood hazard
area as designated by, but not limited to, the most recent edition of the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development Federal Insurance Administration
flood hazard boundary map for the village. The proposed subdivision shall meet
the minimum requirements of the most recently adopted floodplain management
regulations. The Village Administrator is the Floodplain Administrator. If the
subdivision is located in an area having poor drainage or other adverse
physical characteristics, the Planning Commission may approve the subdivision
provided the subdivider performs such improvements as will render the area safe
for the intended use. Refer to the county stormwater management and sediment
control regulations (
Appendix C), as well the stormwater design standards for necessary engineering
standards.
   (B)   Flood control or storm drainage facilities shall be provided as
follows:
      (1)   Access to flood control or storm drainage ditches and channels
shall be by means of permanent maintenance easements. Such maintenance
easements shall be not less than 15 feet in width, measured horizontally from
the top of the bank, exclusive of the width of the ditch, or channel, and a
maintenance easement of this type shall be provided on each side of a flood
control or storm drainage ditch, channel or similar type facility.
      (2)   Maintenance easements are to be kept free of obstructions and
plantings and shall not be altered from the contour and grade shown on the
approved construction plan without written permission of the Planning
Commission.
      (3)   Flood control or storm drainage easements containing underground
facilities shall have a minimum width of 20 feet centered along the storm line.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.066 MINIMUM BOUNDARY SURVEY REQUIREMENTS.
   The minimum boundary survey requirements for subdivision boundaries shown on
the final plat and dedicator’s plat shall be as required by the Standards
Governing Conveyances of Real Property in Allen and/or Hancock County, Ohio and
The Minimum Standards for Boundary Surveys in the State of Ohio (effective May
1, 1980) as issued by the State Board of Registration for professional
engineers and surveyors, as provided for in R.C. § 4733.07.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
REQUIREMENTS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF IMPROVEMENTS
§ 152.080 GUARANTEE FOR INSTALLATION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   All improvements required herein shall be constructed prior to the granting
of a final plat approval by the village or the subdivider shall furnish the
village with a surety certified check or letter of credit for no more than 25%
of the estimated construction cost for the ultimate installation of said
improvements. Prior to granting of approval of the final plat, the developer
shall have installed the following minimum improvements: sanitary sewers, storm
sewers, waterlines, curbs and gutters (or roadside ditches on streets not
requiring curb and gutters), and stone base of roadways including asphalt base
course (301). These minimum improvements shall have been inspected and approved
by the appropriate agencies after which the developer may present the final
plat for approval.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.081 CONSTRUCTION PROCEDURE AND MATERIAL.
   The subdivider shall design and construct improvements not less than the
standards outlined in these regulations. The work shall be done under
appropriate engineering supervision and inspection and shall be completed
within the time fixed or agreed upon by the village. The minimum requirements
for materials shall be in accordance with the standard of the current volume of
Construction and Material Specifications of the State Department of
Transportation, Allen County Standard Construction Drawings, and the village’s
adopted stormwater management and sediment control regulations (
Appendix C) as well as stormwater design specifications.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.082 BOUNDARY SURVEYS, MONUMENTS, MARKERS AND PINS.
   The more restrictive of the following standards shall govern subdivision
monumentation:
   (A)   The most recently adopted version of the Minimum Standard for Boundary
Surveys in the State of Ohio issued by the State Board of Registration for
professional engineers and surveyors, as provided for in R.C. § 4733.07;
   (B)   The most recently adopted version of the Standards Governing
Conveyances of Real Property in Allen County and/or Hancock County, issued by
Allen County and/or Hancock County and provided for in R.C. § 319.203; and
   (C)   (1)   Permanent concrete monuments shall be accurately set and
established at the intersections of all outside boundary lines of the
subdivision; at the intersections of those boundary lines with all street
lines; at the beginning and end of all curves; at points on curves where the
radius of direction changes; and, at such other points as are necessary to
establish definitely all lines of the plat. Stone or concrete monuments shall
be at least 36 inches long and at least six inches in diameter, and shall be
provided with a center point of solid iron pins or pipe.
      (2)   Allen County Engineer’s standard monument boxes may be used in lieu
of stone or concrete monuments if placed at:
         (a)   Intersections of streets;
         (b)   The PC and PT of horizontal curves on streets (or at the PI if
it is on the pavement);
         (c)   At centers of radii of cul-de-sacs; and,
         (d)   At all other centerline locations needed to re-establish all of
the streets of the subdivision. The monument boxes shall be placed in clear
sight of the previous monument box set.
      (3)   Solid iron pins or iron pipe monuments having a minimum cross-
sectional area of material of two-tenths square inches, and at least 30 inches
long shall be used at all other points including all lot corners. Plastic caps
shall be placed on iron pin or pipe designating the surveyors name and
registration number.
      (4)   All streets centerline reference points shall be monumented by one
of the following:
         (a)   Monument boxes;
         (b)   Iron pins;
         (c)   PK nails;
         (d)   Railroad spikes;
         (e)   Boat spikes; or
         (f)   Other iron reference monuments.
      (5)   All monuments, markers and pins must be in place after all
construction is complete.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.083 STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   All streets shall be graded to their full width, including side slopes, and
improved in conformance with the standards given or referred to in these
regulations.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.084 STREET WIDTH.
   Minimum street pavement widths shall conform to the standards as specified
in Table 2 in § 152.054. Where pavement widths greater than specified in §
152.054 of this chapter are deemed necessary, the village may bear the extra
cost of providing a greater than the minimum pavement width required by these
regulations.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.085 STREET CONSTRUCTION.
   Standards for construction of streets are established in the pavement design
criteria as set forth in
Appendix A and hereto attached.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.086 STREET CURBS, GUTTERS AND SIDEWALKS.
   Curbs and gutters shall be required on both sides of the street within the
following areas. Curbs and gutters shall be constructed according to the
standard construction specifications of the County Engineer.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.087 DRIVEWAYS.
   Driveways and curb cuts for driveways shall be constructed according to the
standard drawings of the village for that portion being constructed on the
street right-of-way.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.088 LOT DRAINS.
   All lots shall have access to underground drainage in the forms of Class E
conduit lot drains extending from the storm sewers or inlets to the right-of-
way line. Acceptable Class E conduit for lot drains shall meet Ohio Department
of Transportation specifications: 706.01; 706.02; 706.03; 706.07; 706.08;
706.09; 707.33; 707.42; 707.43; 707.44; 707.45; 707.51 and 707.52. If one of
the above-listed P.V.C. or polyethylene pipes is specified for lot drains, it
shall be smooth-wall, non-perforated, and P.V.C. pipe shall be schedule SDR 35
or stronger. Lot drains shall carry only sump, percolated and air conditioner
water. Lot drains shall not carry stormwater, surface water, downspout water,
or septic system and sanitary system effluents. Storm, surface, roof and
downspout waters will be drained to the street curb or to storm pipes designed
for the purpose of outletting such waters. Lot drains shall not empty directly
into a storm sewer unless a “T” fitting or saddle is used in the storm sewer.
Lot drains shall not extend into the interior of the storm sewer. When a lot
drain is connected directly to a storm sewer, the storm sewer shall be sized
appropriately to handle the additional flow. Lot drains for lots having catch
basins or manholes located directly in front of the lot shall be connected to
the catch basin or manhole, not to the storm sewer.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.089 SIDEWALKS.
   All sidewalks shall be constructed of portland cement concrete to the
minimum width as specified by the standard construction drawings.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.090 STREET NAME SIGNS AND STREET NAMING.
   (A)   Street name signs, of a type used by the village, shall be erected by
the subdivider at all intersections unless otherwise determined by the village.
The installation of street signs and posts shall be born by the developer.
   (B)   Whenever a new street is constructed along the approximate alignment
or extension of an existing street, its name shall be the same as that of an
existing one.
   (C)   Whenever a street alignment changes direction more than 75 degrees
without a return to the original alignment within a distance of 500 feet, at
the discretion of the village, then the name of the street shall be changed at
the point of curvature.
   (D)   Whenever a cul-de-sac street serves not more than three lots, at the
discretion of the Planning Commission, the name of the intersecting street
shall apply to the cul-de-sac.
   (E)   To avoid duplication and confusion, the proposed names of all streets
shall be approved by the Planning Commission prior to such names being assigned
or used.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.091 STREET AND WALKWAY LIGHTING.
   For lighting, the following specifications shall be complied with:
   (A)   New subdivision street lighting will be required;
   (B)   Such lights shall be located at each entrance (streets and walkways)
to the subdivision and at each street intersection within the subdivision. In
addition, whenever the distance between two adjacent street (walkway) lights
would exceed 300 feet, then additional street lights shall be installed in such
a manner that proper light intensity shall be provided and maintained as
specified by the village; and
   (C)   New subdivision street lighting shall be installed with all associated
wiring underground unless otherwise determined by the village.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.092 STREET TREES.
   The preservation and planting of trees should be considered by the developer
as one of several design elements within the proposed subdivision. All trees
proposed in the road right-of-way and/or utility easements shall be approved by
the Tree Committee prior to any planting.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.093 WATER SUPPLY IMPROVEMENTS.
   Water supply improvements shall meet requirements of the village and the
Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (OEPA).
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.094 FIRE PROTECTION.
   Size, location of hydrants, water mains and looping of water supply system
to meet fire flow requirements shall be approved by the Fire Department.
Hydrants shall meet the Fire Department specifications with written approval
from the Fire Chief.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.095 SANITARY SEWER IMPROVEMENTS.
   No sanitary sewers and group sanitary sewage disposal systems shall be
constructed, installed and/or operated without the approval of the village and
the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency. The design, construction and
installation shall be according to current standards and specifications adopted
by the State Department of Health, Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (OEPA)
and the village.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.096 DRAINAGE IMPROVEMENTS.
   Standards for the construction of storm drainage are established in the
storm drainage criteria as set forth in
Appendix C as well as stormwater design specifications.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.097 UTILITY IMPROVEMENTS.
   Utilities shall be provided within each subdivision in the following manner:
   (A)   (1)   Unless otherwise determined by the village, overhead utility
lines, where permitted, shall be located at the rear of all lots.
      (2)   The utility easement width shall be not less than 20 feet. Any
utility poles shall be installed a minimum of two feet from the center of the
easement and at least two feet from any side lot line or corner pin.
   (B)   Whenever a sanitary sewer line, storm sewer line, electric, gas,
telephone line and/or cablevision are each placed underground in the same
utility easement, the following provisions shall be applicable:
      (1)   The total easement width shall be not less than 20 feet; and
      (2)   The sanitary or storm sewer lines shall be installed within seven
feet of one side of the easement and no other utility will be placed within
five feet of the sewer.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.098 STORM WATER.
   All subdivisions (residential, commercial and industrial) shall comply with
the county storm water management and sediment control regulations (
Appendix C).
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.099 OVERSIZE AND OFF-SITE IMPROVEMENTS.
   The utilities, pavements and other land improvements required for the
proposed subdivision shall be designed of oversize and/or with extensions
provided to serve nearby land which is an integral part of the neighborhood
service or drainage area as determined by the village.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.100 OFF-SITE EXTENSIONS.
   When public utilities such as streets, drainage facilities, sanitary sewers
or water lines are not available at the boundary of a proposed subdivision, and
connection to such off-site utilities is deemed necessary by the village, the
subdivider shall be required to:
   (A)   Obtain necessary easements across adjacent property for utility
extensions;
   (B)   Extend necessary utilities across adjacent property or existing right-
of-way at his or her expense but with the right of recovery from other
landowners intending to utilize said utilities;
   (C)   Recoup the cost of any necessary oversizing of utilities required by
the village. The cost of oversizing to be recouped by agreement with the
government agency or benefitting landowner; and
   (D)   Execute and record easements for off-site utility extensions before
acceptance of the final plat by the village.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.101 FINAL INSPECTION.
   Upon completion of all the improvements, the subdivider shall request, in
writing, a final inspection by the village or a representative thereof.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
HILLSIDE REGULATIONS
§ 152.115 GENERAL STATEMENT.
   These regulations apply to all hillside areas. A HILLSIDE AREA as referred
to herein is defined as one with an average slope of more than 15%. The
subdivider shall submit sufficient detailed information as to geologic
conditions, soil types and underground water level in order that a
determination can be made by the village as to the safety of development of the
particular location.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.116 DETERMINATION OF AVERAGE SLOPE.
   The average slope for any hillside development shall be determined by the
Planning Commission from the preliminary subdivision submittal. Determination
will be on area-by-area basis with each lot sized according to the average
topographic change falling within each area.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.117 MINIMUM LOT REQUIREMENTS FOR SINGLE-FAMILY HOMES.
   The minimum lot requirements shall be used to determine the minimum lot area
for a single-family home. The average percent of slope is determined by the
appropriate planning agency. The lot area in thousands of square feet shall
then be determined by charting the average natural ground slope and the minimum
lot area. Rounding shall be made to the nearest five-foot frontage interval.
Deviations from these requirements may be allowed subject to determination by
the Planning Commission where exceptional circumstances warrant.
   Average Percent of Natural Ground Slope
Example:   The minimum lot size for a single-family house on a lot with an
average slope of 28% is 26,000 square feet. The minimum lot width is 130 feet.
The resulting lot depth is 200 feet
               26,500   =   200
                130
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.118 GRADING PLAN AND CONTROLS.
   The preliminary subdivision plan shall show contour lines at two foot
intervals. Elevations are to be based on the sea level datum (U.S.G.S.), with
conversions shown to local datum. The approximate lot layout and the
approximate dimensions shall be shown for each lot and each building site.
Where pads are utilized or proposed for building sites, engineering data shall
show the existing topography and the proposed finished grades, location and
size of each building site, and finished grade of streets prior to
consideration of the final plat.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.119 CUTS AND FILLS.
   No land shall be graded, cut or filled so as to create a slope exceeding a
vertical rise of one foot for each three feet of horizontal distance between
abutting lots, unless a wall of sufficient height and thickness is provided to
retain the graded bank. Major cuts, excavation, grading and filling, where the
same materially changes the site and its relationship with the surrounding
areas or materially affects such areas, shall not be permitted if such
excavation, grading and filling will result in a slope exceeding a vertical
rise of one foot for each three feet of horizontal distance between abutting
lots or between adjoining tracts of land, except where adequate provision is
made to prevent slides and erosion by cribbing and retaining walls.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.120 COMPACTION OF FILL.
   All fill shall be compacted to a density of 90% or greater in accordance
with ASTM D-6-98. Inspection of fill shall be conducted by the village.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.121 RETAINING WALLS.
   Retaining walls may be required whenever topographic conditions warrant.
Retaining walls shall be designed in accordance with currently accepted design
practices and approved by the village.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.122 MINIMUM HILLSIDE REQUIREMENTS.
   Minimum front yard, side yard and setback requirements shall be in
accordance with specifications as set forth by the zoning regulations of the
village. Minimum right-of-way and pavement widths shall conform to the street
design standards as stated in Table 2 listed in §
152.054.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.123 STREET ALIGNMENT.
   The following regulations shall govern street alignment:
   (A)   Vertical profile grades shall be connected by vertical curves;
   (B)   Waiver of visibility requirements may be given subject to the approval
of the Planning Commission and Village Engineer; and
   (C)   Waiver of vertical curve requirements may be given subject to the
approval of the Planning Commission and Village Engineer.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.124 DRIVEWAYS.
   The maximum grade on driveways shall not exceed 10% to the street.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
REQUIRED STATEMENTS AND SIGNATURES TO BE AFFIXED ON THE FINAL PLAT
§ 152.140 GENERAL.
   It is required that the final plat contain the applicable forms and wording
as listed below, or a variation of the same approved by the Village Council.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.141 DESCRIPTION.
   The description shall be by metes and bounds and shall set forth the acreage
within the plat.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.142 OWNERS’ DEDICATION AND ACKNOWLEDGMENT.
Owners’ Dedication and Acknowledgment
We, the undersigned, being all the owners of the land platted herein, do hereby
voluntarily consent to the execution of said plat, and dedicate the streets as
shown thereon, comprising of a total of _______ acres, to the public use
forever.
Easements shown on this plat are for the construction, operation, maintenance,
repair, replacement or removal of water, storm sewer, open ditch sanitary
sewer, gas, electric, telephone or other utility lines or services and for the
express privilege of removing any trees or other obstructions to the free use
of said utilities and for providing ingress and egress to the property for said
purposes and are to be maintained as such forever.
* Vehicular right-of-access shall not be allowed across the one (1) foot
easement lying parallel to _________ Street, along the rear of Lots ______,
______, ______, and ______, except as stipulated in the preceding paragraph.
** This plat is subject to the covenants and restrictions shown on the separate
document attached hereto and labeled “sheet 2 of 2 pages”.
Witness                                    John Doe
___________________________________________________________________________
Witness                                    John Doe
 
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.143 NOTARY PUBLIC.
 
Notary Public
State of Ohio      )
      S.S.      )
__________ County   )
Be it remembered that on this ___________________ day of ____________, 20_____,
personally came the said _____________________, to me known, and acknowledged
the signing and execution of the foregoing statement to be their voluntary act
and deed.
__________________________________________________________
Notary Public in and for ________________ County, Ohio
 
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.144 APPROVAL BY THE VILLAGE COUNCIL.
 
I hereby certify that this plat was approved by the Village Council on
_____________________________.
This approval becomes void unless this plat is filed for recording within
ninety (90) days of this approval.
* This type of easement shall be used when lots back onto major vehicular
traffic arteries.
** This item is applicable only if the restrictions are listed on a second
sheet.
         Certified _________________________
         _________________________________
         Mayor of the Village of Bluffton, Ohio
 
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.145 COUNTY AUDITOR.
 
I hereby certify that the land described by this plat was transferred on
_____________________.
                  _____________________________
                  County Auditor
 
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.146 COUNTY RECORDER.
 
I hereby certify that this plat was filed for recording on _______________, and
that it was recorded on ________________, in Vol. ___________, Page
___________, plat records of __________ County, Ohio. Fee $_____________
                  _____________________________
                  County Recorder
 
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.147 CERTIFICATION BY SURVEYOR.
 
I hereby certify that this plat represents a true and complete survey made by
me or under my supervision in _____________, 20______, and that all markers are
correctly shown as to material and location and are in place.
                  _____________________________
                  Registered Surveyor and Number
 
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
REVISIONS, ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.160 RECORDING OF PLAT.
   No plat of any subdivision shall be recorded by the County Recorder or have
any validity until said plat has received final approval in the manner
prescribed in these regulations.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.161 REVISION OF PLAT AFTER APPROVAL.
   No changes, erasures, modifications or revisions shall be made in any plat
of a subdivision after approval has been given by the village and endorsed in
writing on the plat, unless said plat is first resubmitted to the village.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.162 SALE OF LAND WITHIN SUBDIVISION.
   No owner or agent of the owner of any land located within a subdivision
shall transfer or sell any land by reference to, exhibition of, or by the use
of a plat of the subdivision before such plat has been approved and recorded in
the manner prescribed in these regulations. The description of such lot or
parcel by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other documents
used in the process of selling or transferring shall not exempt the transaction
from the provisions of these regulations.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.163 SCHEDULE OF FEES, CHARGES AND EXPENSES.
   The village shall establish a schedule of fees, charges and expenses and a
collection procedure for same, and other matters pertaining to these
regulations. The schedule of fees shall be available in the office of the
Fiscal Officer and may be altered or amended only by the Village Council. Until
all applicable fees, charges and expenses have been paid in full, no action
shall be taken on any application or appeal.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.164 APPEAL.
   Any person who believes he or she has been aggrieved by these regulations or
the action of the Planning Commission has all the rights of appeal as set forth
in R.C. Chapter 711 or any other applicable section of the Ohio Revised Code
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   The penalties which shall apply to violations of these regulations shall be
those penalties provided by the Ohio Revised Code, as it may be amended from
time to time.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
APPENDIX A: PAVEMENT DESIGN CRITERIA
I.      GENERAL INFORMATION
   A.   The current list of standards to be used in the design of new
subdivision streets or street improvements are as follows:
      1.   Construction and material specifications by the Ohio Department of
Transportation (latest edition);
      2.   Construction standards of Allen County;
   B.   Preparation and approval of plans and specifications:
      1.   A developer through his engineer shall have the right to select the
type of pavement to be constructed in his or her subdivision as follows:
         a.   Portland cement concrete;
         b.   Asphalt concrete pavement; and
         c.   Composite pavement design.
      2.   Plans and specifications must be prepared by an Ohio Registered
Professional Engineer with adherence to the current standards.
      3.   Plans must be submitted for approval to the County Engineer. If
unusual conditions exist, actual requirements should be predetermined by a
preliminary review with the County Engineer.
II.      FLEXIBLE PAVEMENTS
   The absolute minimum allowable design of flexible pavements shall be:
 
Cul-de-sac, local, subcollector and 5" of asphalt concrete on 9" of aggregate
collector streets                   base or 9-1/2" of asphalt concrete
Commercial, industrial and arterial 6" of asphalt concrete on 12" of aggregate
streets                             base or 11" of asphalt concrete
For composite design a bituminous prime coat shall be applied between the
aggregate base and asphalt concrete. Application rate to be at least 0.35
gallons per sq. yd. Minimum asphalt concrete for any flexible pavement with
aggregate base shall be five inches. Item 404 asphalt concrete shall be used
as surface pavement and not less than one and one-quarter inches in thickness.
County Engineer may have additional specifications for testing of aggregates
and bituminous content for asphalt concrete.
 
III.      RIGID PAVEMENTS
   The module of rupture shall be considered to be 600 psi. The absolute
minimum allowable thickness of portland cement concrete shall be:
 
Local Street Collector Street Arterial Street
7 inches     7 inches         7 inches
 
   All rigid pavement shall be placed on a properly compacted subbase and four
inches of aggregate base.
   In no case shall the minimum thickness be less than seven inches of Portland
cement concrete and four inches of aggregate base.
IV.     SOIL TESTS
   If the developer desires to seek soil tests, he or she shall first discuss
same with the County Engineer. Tests shall be furnished for every 3,500 square
yards of pavement surface with a minimum of one test per street or more as
determined by the County Engineer. These tests should be made at the design
subgrade elevation and to a minimum depth of three feet. The test shall include
the following:
   1.   Soil samples at subgrade elevation and depth by boring;
   2.   Moisture determination and maximum dry weight of soil;
   3.   AASHO classification and group index (each sample);
      a.   Liquid limit; and
      b.   Plastic limit.
   4.   Mechanical analysis of the subgrade soil; and
   5.   Laboratory C.B.R. tests.
   In lieu of the above soil tests, the County Engineer shall perform a “proof
roll” of subgrade before stone and concrete are placed. Any soft spots found in
subgrade shall be stabilized to the satisfaction of the County Engineer before
stone and concrete may be placed.
V.      SUBBASE DRAINAGE
   Where unusual wet soil conditions exist as determined by the County
Engineer, six-inch pipe under drains shall be considered. The drains shall be
placed in accordance with Item 605 underdrains. The drains shall be located two
feet behind the curb or edge of pavement and placed a minimum of 18 inches to a
maximum of 30 inches below the subgrade. The underdrains shall be placed on a
minimum slope of one-half feet per 100 feet.
VI.      SUBGRADE PREPARATION
   All subgrade to be prepared and compacted according to Item 203 of the
construction and material specifications irregardless of the amount of pavement
being considered.
VII.      STAGE CONSTRUCTION
   Stage construction, that is, construction of the pavement in phases (before
and after the construction of the subdivision) is recommended.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
APPENDIX B: IMAGES
   
1.   Lot terms
   
2.   Lot types
   
3.   Classification of the thoroughfare system
   
4.   Typical preapplication sketch
   
5.   Overall development plan submission
   
6.   Setback dimensions
   
7.   Odd shaped lot examples
   
8.   Floodplain cross-section
   
9.   Determination of slope
   
10.   Driveway schematic
   
11.   Edge clearance
   
12.   Sight triangle easement
   
13.   Cul-de-sac minimum dimensions
 
LOT TERMS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7cfcbf05c23fdf794b21a7e11b988ad740652023/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3699.png]
 
LOT TYPES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7cfcbf05c23fdf794b21a7e11b988ad740652023/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3701.png]
 
 
CLASSIFICATION OF THE THOROUGHFARE SYSTEM
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7cfcbf05c23fdf794b21a7e11b988ad740652023/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3703.png]
 
TYPICAL PREAPPLICATION SKETCH
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7cfcbf05c23fdf794b21a7e11b988ad740652023/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3705.png]
 
 
OVERALL DEVELOPMENT PLAN SUBMISSION
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7cfcbf05c23fdf794b21a7e11b988ad740652023/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3707.png]
 
SETBACK DIMENSIONS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7cfcbf05c23fdf794b21a7e11b988ad740652023/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3709.png]
 
ODD SHAPED LOT EXAMPLES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7cfcbf05c23fdf794b21a7e11b988ad740652023/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3711.png]
 
FLOODPLAIN CROSS-SECTION
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7cfcbf05c23fdf794b21a7e11b988ad740652023/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3713.png]
 
DETERMINATION OF SLOPE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7cfcbf05c23fdf794b21a7e11b988ad740652023/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3715.png]
 
DRIVEWAY SCHEMATIC
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7cfcbf05c23fdf794b21a7e11b988ad740652023/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3717.png]
 
EDGE CLEARANCE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7cfcbf05c23fdf794b21a7e11b988ad740652023/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3719.png]
 
SIGHT TRIANGLE EASEMENT
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7cfcbf05c23fdf794b21a7e11b988ad740652023/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3721.png]
 
CUL-DE-SAC MINIMUM DIMENSIONS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7cfcbf05c23fdf794b21a7e11b988ad740652023/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3723.png]
(Ord. 20-04, passed 12-27-2004)
APPENDIX C: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT AND SEDIMENT CONTROL REGULATIONS
   The Allen County Stormwater Management and Sediment Control Regulations is
hereby adopted by reference. A full copy of the regulations can be found in the
office of the Fiscal Officer.
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Title
   
153.002   Provisions declared minimum standards
   
153.003   Severability and repeal
   
153.004   Definitions
Districts and Boundaries Thereof
   
153.015   Division of village into districts
   
153.016   Districts and boundaries established
   
153.017   District boundaries
   
153.018   Uncertainty as to district boundaries
   
153.019   Vacated street or alley
   
153.020   Property not included annexations
   
153.021   Summary of zoning districts
Effects of Districting and General Regulations
   
153.035   Conformance required
   
153.036   Additional uses; Commission determination
   
153.037   Prohibited uses
   
153.038   Additional prohibited uses; Commission determinations
   
153.039   Conversion of dwellings
   
153.040   Yard requirements along zoning boundary line in the less restricted
districts
   
153.041   Accessory buildings in R-Residential Districts; without main building
   
153.042   Performance standards; compliance
   
153.043   Street frontage required
   
153.044   Traffic visibility across corner lots
   
153.045   Required area or space cannot be reduce
   
153.046   Off-street parking and loading
   
153.047   Accessory uses in R-Residential Districts
   
153.048   Essential services
   
153.049   Unsafe buildings
   
153.050   Pending applications for building permits
   
153.051   Parking and occupancy of house trailers and campers
   
153.052   Parking of boats and trailers
   
153.053   Parking and storage of unlicensed vehicles
Nonconforming Uses
   
153.065   Abandonment
   
153.066   Reconstruction
   
153.067   Alteration and enlargement
   
153.068   Structures under construction
R-I Residential District
   
153.080   Purpose
   
153.081   Uses permitted in the R-I Residential District
   
153.082   Conditional uses; with approval by the Village Zoning and Building
Board of Appeals after a public hearing
   
153.083   Required lot area, frontage and yard in the R-I Residential District
   
153.084   Corner lots
   
153.085   Height regulation within the R-I Residential District
   
153.086   Required floor area in the R-I District
R-II Residential District
   
153.100   Purpose
   
153.101   Uses permitted in the R-II Residential District
   
153.102   Conditional uses; with approval by the Village Zoning and Building
Board of Appeals after a public hearing
   
153.103   Required lot area, frontage and yard in the R-II Residential District
   
153.104   Corner lots
   
153.105   Height regulations within the R-II Residential District
   
153.106   Required floor area in the R-II District
R-III Residential District
   
153.120   Purpose
   
153.121   Uses permitted in the R-III Residential District
   
153.122   Conditional uses; with approval by the Village Zoning and Building
Board of Appeals after a public hearing
   
153.123   Required lot area, frontage and yard in the R-III Residential
District
   
153.124   Corner lots
   
153.125   Height regulation within the R-III Residential District
   
153.126   Required floor area in the R-III District
C-I Commercial District
   
153.140   Purpose
   
153.141   Uses permitted in the C-I Commercial District
   
153.142   Conditional uses with approval by the Village Board of Zoning and
Building Appeals after a public hearing
   
153.143   Required lot area and lot width in the C-I District
   
153.144   Building height regulation in the C-I District
   
153.145   Required yards in the C-I District
   
153.146   Landscaping or screening provisions
C-II Commercial District
   
153.160   Purpose
   
153.161   Uses permitted in the C-II Commercial District
   
153.162   Conditional uses; with approval by the Village Zoning and Building
Board of Appeals after a public hearing
   
153.163   Required lot area and lot width in the C-II District
   
153.164   Building height regulation in the C-II District
   
153.165   Required yards in the C-II District
   
153.166   Landscaping or screening provisions
   
153.167   Other required conditions
I-I Light Industrial District
   
153.180   Purpose
   
153.181   Uses permitted in the I-I Industrial District
   
153.182   Conditional uses; with approval by the Village Zoning and Building
Board of Appeals after public hearing
   
153.183   Accessory uses in the I-I District
   
153.184   Other required conditions
   
153.185   Height regulations in the I-I District
   
153.186   Required lot area in the I-I District
   
153.187   Yards required in the I-I District
   
153.188   Screening required between industrial and residential districts
I-II General Industrial District
   
153.200   Purpose
   
153.201   Uses permitted in the I-II Industrial District
   
153.202   Conditional uses; with approval by the Village Zoning and Building
Board of Appeals after public hearing
   
153.203   Accessory uses in the I-II District
   
153.204   Other required conditions
   
153.205   Height regulations in the I-II District
   
153.206   Required lot area in the I-II District
   
153.207   Yards required in the I-II District
   
153.208   Screening required between industrial and residential districts
FP Floodplain District
   
153.220   Purpose
   
153.221   Uses permitted in the FP Floodplain District
   
153.222   Conditional uses with approval by the Village Zoning and Building
Board of Appeals after public hearing
   
153.223   Required conditions
   
153.224   Required lot area and lot width in the FP District
   
153.225   Height regulations in the FP District
MH, Mobile Home Park District
   
153.240   Purpose
   
153.241   Approval procedures
   
153.242   General standards
   
153.243   Contents of application
   
153.244   Mobile home park requirements
   
153.245   Mobile home park lot requirements
   
153.246   Mobile home utilities and other service
   
153.247   Length of occupancy
   
153.248   Supplementary conditions and safeguards
   
153.249   Permitted uses
   
153.250   Prohibited uses
PUD, Planned Unit Development District
   
153.265   Purpose
   
153.266   General
   
153.267   Residential planned unit development
   
153.268   Common open space
   
153.269   Disposition of open space
   
153.270   Submittal
   
153.271   Preliminary plan
   
153.272   Final development plan
   
153.273   Commission findings required
   
153.274   Uses permitted in PUD Districts
   
153.275   Height requirements
   
153.276   Acceptance by action of Village Council
Special Provisions
   
153.290   Performance standards
   
153.291   Enforcement provisions
Off-Street Parking and Loading Regulations
   
153.305   Off-street parking
   
153.306   Number of parking spaces required
   
153.307   Development and maintenance of parking areas
   
153.308   Off-street loading
   
153.309   Loading space; dimensions
   
153.310   Loading space; occupy yard
   
153.311   Loading space; distance from R-District
Extraction of Minerals
   
153.325   General requirements
   
153.326   Applicant; financial ability
   
153.327   Application; contents, procedure
   
153.328   Public hearing
   
153.329   Rehabilitation
   
153.330   Additional requirements
   
153.331   Compliance
   
153.332   Gas and oil wells
Swimming Pools
   
153.345   General provisions
Motels and Motor Hotels
   
153.360   General requirements
Exceptions and Modifications
   
153.375   Lot of record
   
153.376   Exception to yard requirements
   
153.377   Exception to height limits
Yard Projections in R-Districts
   
153.390   Projections of architectural features
   
153.391   Fences, walls and hedges
   
153.392   Type of construction
Enforcement
   
153.405   Enforcement by Zoning Inspector
   
153.406   Zoning certificates
   
153.407   Conditions under which certificates are required
   
153.408   Application and issuance of zoning certificate
   
153.409   General provisions
   
153.410   Fees
Board of Zoning and Building Appeals
   
153.425   Appointment
   
153.426   Procedure
   
153.427   Quorum
   
153.428   Assistance
   
153.429   Appeals, hearings and stay of proceedings
   
153.430   Appeal from decisions of the Board
   
153.431   Decisions of the Board
   
153.432   Stay of proceedings
   
153.433   Powers of the Board of Zoning and Building Appeals
   
153.434   Fees
District Changes and Regulation Amendments
   
153.445   Council may amend chapter
   
153.446   Procedure for change
   
153.447   Commission hearing, notice
   
153.448   Council hearing
   
153.449   Council; final action
   
153.450   Map change pending; zoning certificate building permit
   
153.451   Fees
Adult Entertainment
   
153.465   Purpose
   
153.466   Definitions
   
153.467   Conditional use permit required
   
153.468   Zoning of adult entertainment business
Bed and Breakfast Establishments
   
153.480   Permitted as special use
   
153.481   Definitions
   
153.482   Procedure for obtaining a special bed and breakfast use permit
   
153.483   Village Council review
   
153.484   Submission requirements; original application
   
153.485   Procedure for renewing permit upon transfer of property
   
153.486   Regulations and criteria
   
153.487   Permit fee
   
153.488   Noncompliance with the permit/power to rescind
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the “Village
of Bluffton, Ohio, Zoning Ordinance”.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.002 PROVISIONS DECLARED MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements. Wherever, this chapter imposes a
greater restriction than is imposed or required by other provisions of law or
by other rules or regulations or resolutions, the provisions of this chapter
shall govern.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.003 SEVERABILITY AND REPEAL.
   (A)   Severability.
      (1)   This chapter and the various subchapters, sections and divisions
thereof are hereby declared to be severable.
      (2)   If any subchapter, section, division, paragraph, sentence or phrase
of this chapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by any court of
competent jurisdiction, the remainder of this chapter shall not be affected
thereby.
   (B)   Repeal. All other ordinances of the village inconsistent herewith and
to the extent of such inconsistency and no further are hereby repealed.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms are herein defined. All words
used in the present tense include the future tense. All words in the singular
include plural and all words in the plural include the singular. The word
“shall” is mandatory and not directory. The word “used”, shall be deemed to
include “designed, intended or arranged to be used”. For the purpose of this
chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABUTTING. Bordering.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building, located on the same lot as the
main building, the use of which is naturally and normally incidental and
subordinate to that of the dominant use of the main building or land. No
ACCESSORY BUILDINGS shall be used for any purpose other than that allowed by
existing or future village ordinances.
   ACCESSORY USE. A subordinate use customarily incident to and located on the
same lot occupied by the principal use, and the term as herein defined shall
include in its definition any improvement appurtenant to such lot.
   AGRICULTURE. The use of land for agricultural purposes, including farming,
dairying, pasturage, agriculture, horticulture, floriculture, viticulture and
animal and poultry husbandry and the necessary accessory uses for packaging,
treating or storing the produce.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Any liquid designed or commonly used for human
consumption, as a beverage, containing any percentage of grain or ethyl alcohol
by volume and shall not be limited to “intoxicating liquor”and “liquor” as
defined in R. C. § 4301.01(a)(1).
   ALIGNMENT. Location with reference to a line touching the foremost enclosed
portions of buildings.
   ALLEY. A public way, contemplated for the use of vehicular traffic, which
affords secondary means of access to property abutting thereon.
   ALLEY LINE. A lot line bordering on any alley.
   ALTERATION, STRUCTURAL. Any change or replacement which would tend to
prolong the life of the supporting or structural members of any building or
structure, such as bearing walls, columns, joists, beams, girders and the like.
   APARTMENT. See DWELLING UNIT.
   APARTMENT HOTEL. A building designed for or containing both dwelling units
and individual guest rooms or suites of rooms, which building may include
accessory uses such as a cigar store or coffee shop when such uses are
accessible only from the lobby.
   AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR. The repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of motor
vehicles or parts thereof, including collision services, painting and steam
cleaning of vehicles.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. A building, structure or land used for the
dispensing, sale or offering for sale at retail of any automobile fuels, oils
or minor accessories, and other customary incidental service. When such
dispensing, sale or offering for sale is incidental to the conduct of a public
garage, the use shall be classified as a public garage.
   AUTOMOBILE WRECKING. The dismantling or wrecking of motor vehicles or
trailers, or the storage, sale or dumping of dismantled, partially dismantled,
obsolete or wrecked vehicles or their parts.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a building the floor of which is more than two feel
below grade and the ceiling of which is more than four feet six inches above
grade. A BASEMENT shall be included for purposes of bulk and height measurement
if used for dwelling or business purposes.
   BED AND BREAKFAST (B&B). A converted single-family dwelling operated and
maintained by the resident owner which allows for and accommodates no more than
five rooms for overnight transient guests, and whereas signage, tax, fire,
building and health requirements are met according to local zoning, county or
state regulations.
   BEGINNING OF CONSTRUCTION. The incorporation of labor and material within
the walls of the building or buildings; the incorporation of labor and
materials at the site, lot or parcel where a building is to be constructed; the
incorporation of labor and material where land is to be used for purposes other
than construction of a building.
   BILLBOARD or SIGNBOARD. Any sign situated on private premises on which the
written or pictorial information is not directly related to the use of the land
on which such sign is located. A display sign is a structure that is arranged,
intended or designed or used as an advertisement, announcement or direction.
   BOARD. The Board of Zoning and Building Appeals in the Village of Bluffton
as established by §§
153.425 through
153.434 of this chapter.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A dwelling or part thereof where lodging and meals for three
or more persons are served for compensation by previous arrangement but not
transients.
   BOAT. Any structure designed and constructed in such manner as will permit
transport upon water, or any number of persons and any amount of cargo and
powered either by oars, sails or motors, or any combination thereof. This
definition shall also include any wheeled vehicle used for transporting such
structure, and commonly known as a boat trailer.
   BUILDING. Any permanent, stationary structure constructed or used for
residential, business, industrial or public use. Said structure has four walls,
a roof and is attached permanently to the ground.
   BUILDING LINE. The line beyond which no building or part thereof shall
project, except as otherwise provided by this chapter.
   BUILDING, FRONT LINE OF. The line of that face of the building nearest the
front line of the lot including sun parlors and screened-in porches.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance from the grade to the highest
point of the coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof or to
the mean height level between eaves and ridge for gable, hip and gambrel roofs.
   BUILDING, MAIN OR PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the principal
use of the lot on which it is situated.
   BUSINESS. The engaging in the purchase, sale, barter or exchange of goods,
wares, merchandise or services, the maintenance or operation of offices, or
recreational and amusement enterprises for profit.
   CAMP, PUBLIC. Any area or tract of land used or designed to accommodate two
or more automobile house trailers, tents, cabins or other camping outfits.
   CELLAR. The portion of a building, the ceiling of which is entirely below or
less than four feet six inches above grade. No cellar or portion thereof shall
be used as a complete dwelling unit and the cellar shall not be included in
bulk or height measurements.
   CLINIC. A place used for the care, diagnosis and treatment of sick, ailing,
infirm or injured persons and those who are in need of medical and surgical
attention, but who are not provided with room or board or kept overnight on the
premises.
   CLUB. A building or portion thereof or premises owned, used or operated by a
corporation, association, person or persons for social, educational or
recreational purposes but not primarily for profit or to render a service which
is customarily carried on as a business.
   COMMISSION. Planning Commission of the Village of Bluffton, Ohio.
   DISTRICT.
      (1)   All properties or lots of the same use, height and area
classification which adjoin or are continuous without intervening property of
another classification and regardless of any street, alley, easement or reserve
that may intervene shall constitute a district.
      (2)   The greatest dimensions of the area included in a district shall be
the length of the projection of the district upon the centerline of a street
which passes through the district or upon which the property abuts, such
projections being made at right angles to the street.
   DRY CLEANING ESTABLISHMENT. A use involving the cleaning or dyeing of
fabrics by the use of mechanical appliances and the use of chemicals or
products other than water.
   DWELLING. Any permanent building or portion thereof which is designed for or
used exclusively for residential purposes containing one or more dwelling
units.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A building or portion thereof, containing three or more
dwelling units and designed for or occupied as the home of three or more
families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached building containing one dwelling unit
and designed for or occupied by only one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A detached or semi-detached building containing two
dwelling units and designed for or occupied by two families.
   DWELLING UNIT. A group of rooms located within a building and forming a
single-habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to be used for
living, sleeping, cooking and eating purposes.
   ERECT. Construct, build, raise or establish either under, upon or above the
ground surface.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance by
public utilities or municipal or other governments of underground or overhead
gas, electrical, steam or water transmission or distribution systems,
collection, communication, supply or disposal systems, including poles, wires,
mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call
boxes, traffic signals, hydrants and other similar equipment, and accessories
in connection therewith; reasonable necessity for the furnishing of adequate
service by such public utilities or municipal or other government or for the
public health or safety or general welfare, but not including buildings.
   EXPLOSIVE. A chemical or material used to create an explosion.
   EXTEND. To enlarge or increase area used or occupied.
   FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a premises and living as a single
housekeeping unit, provided that unless all members are related by blood,
adoption or marriage, no such family shall contain over five persons.
   FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several stories of
a building measured from the exterior faces of the building, including any
basement but excluding garages, breezeways and porches whether or not enclosed.
   FRONT OF A BUILDING, FRONT LINE OF A BUILDING, BUILDING LINE. Respectively,
that portion, building line or yard line, adjacent to or fronting on a street
or alley line in the sense of affording principal access to the building.
   FRONTAGE. All of the property on one side of a street between two
intersecting streets (crossing or terminating) measured along the line of the
street or the entire street if not intersected, or if the street is dead ended,
then all of the property abutting on one side between an intersecting street
and the dead end of the street.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building or portion of a main building
designed or used for the parking or temporary storage of motor vehicles owned
or used by the occupants of the building to which it is accessory; not more
than one of such vehicles may be a commercial vehicle not exceeding one and one
half ton capacity. Within a PRIVATE GARAGE no occupation, trade, business or
service connected in any way with motor vehicles may be carried on.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building or portion thereof, other than a private or
storage garage, designed or used for equipping, servicing, repairing, hiring,
selling or storing motor-driven or related vehicles.
   GARAGE, STORAGE. A building or portion thereof designed or used exclusively
for storage of motor driven or related vehicles and at which motor fuels and
oils are not sold and such vehicles are not equipped, serviced, repaired, hired
or sold.
   GRADE.
      (1)   (a)   For buildings having walls adjoining one street only, the
elevation of the sidewalk at the center of the wall adjoining the street.
         (b)   For buildings having walls adjoining more than one street, the
average of the elevation of the sidewalks at the centers of all walls adjoining
the streets.
         (c)   For buildings having no wall adjoining the street, the average
level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the exterior walls of
the building.
      (2)   Any wall approximately parallel to and not more than five feet from
a street line is to be considered as adjoining the street. Where no sidewalk
exists or where none of the walls adjoin a street line for the purposes of this
chapter, the GRADE shall be established by the Director of Village Services.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any use customarily conducted entirely within a dwelling
and carried on by the inhabitants thereof, which use is clearly incidental and
secondary to the use of the dwelling for the dwelling purposes and does not
change the character thereof. The conducting of a clinic, hospital, barber
shop, beauty parlor, tea room, tourist home, animal hospital or any similar use
shall not be deemed to be a HOME OCCUPATION.
   HOME, TOURIST. A building or part thereof where lodging is provided by a
resident in his or her home for compensation, mainly for transients.
   HOSPITAL. An institution equipped for the overnight stay of persons for
surgical or medical care of sick, injured or infirmed persons.
   HOTEL. A building in which lodging or boarding and lodging are provided and
offered to the public for compensation and in which ingress and egress to and
from all rooms is made through an inside lobby or office normally supervised by
a person in charge at all hours. As such, it is open to the public as
distinguished from a boarding house, a lodging house or an apartment which are
herein separately defined.
   INDUSTRY. Embraces any operation involving the manufacture, production,
processing or conversion of any material into a finished product, or product
needing only a relatively small degree of further processing to result in its
capability for sale as an article of use.
   INSTITUTION. A building occupied by a nonprofit corporation or a nonprofit
establishment for public use.
   JUNK. Any personal property which is or may be salvaged for reuse, resale,
reduction or similar disposition or which is possessed, transported, owned,
collected, accumulated, dismantled or assorted for the aforesaid purposes.
   JUNK YARD. Any area where waste, discarded or salvaged materials are bought,
sold, exchanged, baled, packed, disassembled or handled, including auto
wrecking yards, house wrecking yards, used lumber yards and places or yards for
storage of salvaged house wrecking and structural steel materials and
equipment, but not including areas where such uses are conducted entirely
within a completely enclosed building, and not including establishments for the
sale, purchase or storage of used furniture and household equipment, used cars
in operable condition, salvaged machinery and the processing of used, discarded
or salvaged materials as part of manufacturing operations.
   KENNEL, DOG KENNELS. The keeping and care of more than three dogs that are
more than six months old.
   LAUNDRY, AUTOMATIC. A business that provides home-type washing, drying and/
or ironing machines for hire to be used by customers on the premises or
operated for the benefit of retail customers who bring in and call for laundry.
   LEAST DIMENSION. The LEAST DIMENSION OF A LOT is the least of the horizontal
dimensions of such lot, and if two opposite sides of a lot are not parallel,
such least dimensions shall be deemed to be the mean distance between them, but
shall be not less than 60% of the longest of such distance.
   LOADING SPACE. A space within the main building or on the same lot providing
for the parking, loading or unloading of trucks. The space having a minimum
distance of 12 by 35 feet in length and a vertical clearance of at least 14
feet in height.
   LODGING OR ROOMING HOUSE. A dwelling or part thereof where lodging is
provided for three or more but not more than 20 persons.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by a use permitted
in this chapter, including one main building together with its accessory
buildings, the open space and parking spaces required by this chapter and
having its principal frontage upon a street or upon an officially approved
place.
   LOT, AREA. The total area (depth times width) within the lot lines of a lot,
not including any portion of a publicly dedicated street or road right-of-way.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection.
   LOT, DEPTH OF. The average horizontal distance between the front line and
the rear line of the lot, measured in the general direction of the side lot
lines.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot or through lot.
   LOT LINES. The property lines between two established parcels of land or one
parcel and public property.
      (1)   The FRONT LOT LINE is the line separating the lot from a street. In
the case of corner lots, the street lot line of least dimension shall be deemed
to be the front lot line and the other street lot line, or lines, shall be
deemed to be side lot lines, except in cases where deed restrictions or usage
in effect specify another line as the front lot line. In the event such street
lot lines are of equal dimensions, the FRONT LOT LINES shall be as designated
by the Board of Zoning and Building Appeals.
      (2)   The REAR LOT LINE is the lot line opposite and most distant from
the front lot line.
      (3)   The SIDE LOT LINE is any lot line other than a front or rear lot
line.
      (4)   A STREET LOT LINE is the lot line separating the lot from a street,
an alley lot line is the line separating the lot from an alley.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, the map of which has
been recorded in the office of the County Recorder of Allen County, Ohio; or a
parcel of land described by metes and bounds, the description of which has been
recorded in the office of the County Recorder of Allen County, Ohio.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot having frontage on two streets, as distinguished from a
corner lot.
   LOT, WIDTH OF. The distance measured between the side lot lines at the
building line.
   MEDICAL CENTER. A principal building used by one or more physicians,
surgeons or dentists as offices, clinics, laboratories and operating rooms for
the diagnosis and treatment of human ailments and the care of patients before
and after minor operations.
   MINERAL. Any chemical compound occurring naturally as a product of inorganic
processes.
   MIXED OCCUPANCY. A single piece of property on which two or more different
uses, as defined in this chapter, is contemplated or in existence.
   MOTEL or MOTOR HOTEL. A series of attached, semi-attached or detached
sleeping or living units, for the accommodation of automobile transient guests,
said units having convenient access to off-street parking spaces, for the
exclusive use of the guests or occupants.
   NONCONFORMING USES. A lawful use of land or of a building, or portion
thereof, at the effective date of this chapter or at the effective date of an
amendment thereto or change of the district map which use does not conform
after the passage of this chapter or amendment thereto or change in the
district map with the use requirements of the district in which it is situated.
   NURSING HOME. A home for the aged, chronically ill or incurable persons in
which three or more persons not of immediate family are received, kept and
provided with food, or shelter and care, for compensation; but not including
hospitals, clinics or similar institutions devoted primarily to the diagnosis,
treatment or care of the sick or injured.
   OCCUPANCY, CERTIFICATE OF. A statement, signed by the Zoning Inspector,
setting forth that the use of the land, building or structure at a specific
location complies with the this zoning chapter or is a nonconforming use and
why.
   PARKING LOT. An area of land, the primary use of which is for the parking of
motor vehicles.
   PARKING SPACE. A surfaced area, either enclosed in the main building or in
an accessory building or unenclosed, having an area of not less than 200 square
feet exclusive of driveways, for the parking of one automobile and connected
with a street or alley in a surfaced driveway which affords satisfactory
ingress and egress.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, partnership, corporation, club or
association.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. An area of land in which a variety of housing
types and subordinate commercial and industrial facilities are accommodated in
a pre-planned environment under more flexible standards, such as lot sizes and
setbacks, than those restrictions that would normally apply under these
regulations. The procedure for approval of such development contains
requirements in addition to those of the standard subdivision, such as building
design principles and landscaping plans.
   PORCH. A roofed, open structure projecting from the front, side or rear wall
of the building without any enclosed features of glass, wood or other material,
except screens, and support structures.
   PREMISES. Includes lands and all things of a permanent nature which may be
appurtenant thereto.
   PRIVATE RESIDENCE. A place of usual or customary abode.
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICE. Office of members of recognized professions such as an
architect, artist, dentist, engineer, musician, physician, surgeon, surveyor or
other professional person.
   PUBLIC NOTICE. Public notice as used in conjunction with this chapter shall
mean and conform to the provisions of R.C. § 713.12 (1970 S159 eff. 6-1-1970,
128 v 128, 127 v 363).
   PUBLIC SERVICE FACILITIES. Utility installations, buildings and distribution
facilities providing service to the general public, including electric power
plants, water treatment plants, sewage disposal installations, communication
facilities and repair and storage buildings and areas incident to such
facilities not including railroads and railroad facilities.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any person, firm, corporation, municipal department or
board, duly authorized to furnish under state or municipal legislation, to the
public electricity, sewers, gas, communication services, transportation or
water.
   REAR OF A BUILDING, REAR LINE OF A BUILDING, REAR YARD LINE. Respectively
that portion, building line or yard line opposite to the front line of a
building, whether or not affording service access to the building.
   REGIONAL PLANNING COMMISSION. The Lima-Allen County Regional Planning
Commission.
   RESIDENCE. A general term implying a place of human habitation and embracing
either single- family house or multiple-family house as defined in this
chapter.
   RETAIL FILLING STATION. See AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION.
   ROADSIDE STAND. A temporary structure designed or used for the display or
sale of a agricultural products produced on the premises upon which a stand is
located.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between the street line and the
building or any projection thereof, excepting such projection as may be allowed
by this chapter and subsequent amendments thereto.
   SHALL. As used in this chapter is always mandatory.
   SIGN.
      (1)   A name, identification, description, display or illustration which
is affixed to, painted or represented, directly or indirectly upon a building
structure, parcel or lot and which directs attention to an object, product,
place, activity, person, institution, organization or business.
      (2)   A SIGN shall not include official court or government notices nor
shall it include the flag, emblem or insignia of a nation, political unit,
school or religion. Further, it shall not include the display of merchandise in
a window but shall include temporary or permanent signs attached to the outside
or inside of a window.
   SIGN, AREA OF. The total exterior surface computed in square feet of a sign
having but one exposed exterior surface, one-half of the total of the exposed
exterior surface computed in square feet of a sign having more than one such
surface.
   SLAUGHTERHOUSE. A use or building arranged, used or devoted to the killing
of animals.
   STABLE, COMMERCIAL. A stable for horses, donkeys, mules or ponies which are
let, hired, used or boarded on a commercial basis and for compensation.
   STABLE, PRIVATE. An accessory building for the keeping of horses, donkeys,
mules or ponies owned by the occupant of the premises and not kept for
remuneration, hire or sale.
   STANDARD EQUIPMENT. A criterion for the control of specific types of
industrial equipment and the placement (or installation) of said industrial
equipment relating to a specific manufacturing plant or process.
   STANDARD PERFORMANCE. A set of standards (instructions) established by the
manufacturer of industrial equipment concerning the proper operation of said
manufacturing equipment. These standards being developed by the manufacturer in
the interest of protecting the public health and safety for the control of
noise, odor, smoke, noxious gases and other objectionable or dangerous elements
generated by and inherent in or incidental to land uses affected by the
industrial equipment.
   STORY. The portion of a building, other than a cellar, included between the
surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there be
no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above
it.
   STORY, HALF. A partial story under a gable, hip or gambrel roof, the wall
plates of which on at least two opposite exterior walls are more than two feet,
but not more than five feet above the floor of such story, except that any
partial story used for residence purposes, other than by a family occupying the
floor immediately below it, shall be deemed a full story.
   STREET. A public or private way dedicated to public travel 30 feet or more
in width. The word STREET shall include the words road, highway and
thoroughfare, and shall also include avenue, drive, circle, parkway, boulevard
and/or other similar term.
   STREET ROAD LINE, ALLEY LINE. A dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel
of land and continuous street, road or alley.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires more
or less permanent location on the ground, including but without limiting the
generality of the foregoing; advertising signs, billboards, backstop for tennis
courts and per goals.
   SUITABLY SCREENED OR FENCED. A neat, orderly and healthy screen of evergreen
or other suitable plant material not less than three feet in height and with an
expected normal growth of at least five feet in height, protected by a
galvanized wire line fence of at least five feet in height. A wooden or masonry
fence or other landscaping may be substituted for the screening and wire link
fence when appropriate. Bumper guards or wheel stops to prevent damage to the
screen or fence by automobiles shall be provided when the required screen or
fence surrounds parking lots or spaces.
   TERRACE. A natural or artificial embankment between a building and its lot
line. The HEIGHT OF TERRACE shall be the difference in elevation between the
curb level and the top of the terrace at the center of the building wall.
   THOROUGHFARE. An officially designated federal or state numbered highway,
county, township or village road designated as a thoroughfare on the village
comprehensive plan including any amendments thereto.
   TRADE. Such commercial activities as are entailed in the interchange of
goods and materials but does not include operations dealing with the
manufacture of goods and materials.
   TRAILER or MOBILE HOME. Any vehicle or structure so designed and constructed
in such manner as will permit occupancy thereof as sleeping quarters for one or
more persons, or the conduct of any business or profession, occupation or trade
or used as a selling or advertising device and so designed that it is or may be
mounted on wheels and used as a conveyance on highways or city streets,
propelled or drawn by its own or other motive power, excepting a device used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   TRAILER CAMP or MOBILE HOME CAMP. Any park, trailer park, trailer court,
camp, site, lot, parcel or tract of land designed, maintained or intended for
the purpose of supplying a location or accommodations for any trailer coach and
upon which any trailer coach is parked and shall include all buildings used or
intended for use as part of the equipment thereof whether a charge is made for
the use of the trailer camp and its facilities or not. TRAILER CAMP or MOBILE
HOME CAMP shall not include automobile or trailer sale lots on which unoccupied
trailers are parked for purposes of inspection and sale.
   USE. The purpose for which either land or building is arranged, designed or
intended, or for which either land or building is or may be occupied or
maintained.
   VARIANCE. A relaxation of the terms of this zoning chapter. Where such
VARIANCE will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to
conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the actions of the
applicant, a literal enforcement of the chapter would result in unnecessary and
undue hardship. As used in this chapter, a VARIANCE is authorized only for
height, area and size of structure or size of yards and open spaces;
establishment or expansion of a use otherwise prohibited shall not be allowed
by variance, nor shall a variance be granted because of the presence of
nonconformities in the zoning district or uses in an adjoining zoning district,
unless so authorized by this chapter.
   YARD. An open space at grade between a building and the adjoining lot lines
unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground
upward, except as otherwise provided herein. In measuring a YARD for the
purpose of determining the width of a side yard, the depth of a front yard or
the depth of the rear yard, the minimum horizontal distance between the lot
line and the main building shall be used.
   YARD, FRONT. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with the building
extending across the entire width of the lot between the principal building and
the right-of-way line or street line which the building faces.
   YARD, REAR. The open, unoccupied space on the same lot with the building
extended across the entire width of the lot between the rear lot line and the
nearest part of the principal building.
   YARD, SIDE. An open unoccupied space on the same lot with the building
extending along the side lot line from the front yard to the rear yard and
lying between the side lot line and nearest part of the principal building.
   ZONING INSPECTOR. The Zoning Inspector of the Village of Bluffton, Ohio, or
his or her authorized representative.
   ZONING MAP. The zoning map of the Village of Bluffton, Ohio, together with
all amendments subsequently adopted.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979; Ord. 2-99, passed 2-8-1999; Ord. 07-2020, passed
7-13-2020)
DISTRICTS AND BOUNDARIES THEREOF
§ 153.015 DIVISION OF VILLAGE INTO DISTRICTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the village is hereby divided into
ten zoning districts.
   (B)   Said ten districts are designated as follows:
      (1)   R-I Residential or Single-Family House District;
      (2)   R-II Residential or Low Density Multiple-Family District;
      (3)   R-III Residential or High Density Multiple-Family District;
      (4)   C-I Commercial District;
      (5)   C-II Commercial District;
      (6)   I-I Light Industrial District;
      (7)   I-II General Industrial District;
      (8)   FP Floodplain District;
      (9)   MH Mobile Home Park District; and
      (10)   PUD Planned Unit Development District.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.016 DISTRICTS AND BOUNDARIES ESTABLISHED.
   Said ten districts and boundaries thereof are hereby adopted and established
as shown on the zoning map of the village, which map, together with all
notation, references, data, district boundaries and other information shown
thereon, shall be and the same are hereby made a part of this chapter. Said
zoning map, properly attested, shall be and remain on file in the office of the
Director of Village Services. Said
zoning map to be subject to change in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.017 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Except where references on said map to a street or alley line or other
designated line by dimensions shown on said map, the district boundary lines
follow lot lines or the centerlines of streets or alleys as they existed at the
time of the adoption of this chapter.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.018 UNCERTAINTY AS TO DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   If the Village Planning Commission, in its consideration of determining the
location of such line or lines, is unable to agree as to such location as
hereinbefore provided, then the question of location shall be certified to
Council, and such body shall determine the location of such separating line, by
a simple majority of a quorum, and by resolution, which need not be published.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.019 VACATED STREET OR ALLEY.
   Whenever any street, alley or other public way is vacated by official action
as provided by law, the zoning district adjoining the side of such public way
shall be extended automatically, depending on the side or sides to which such
lands revert, to include the right-of-way thus vacated, which shall thenceforth
be subject to all regulations of the extended district or districts.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.020 PROPERTY NOT INCLUDED ANNEXATIONS.
   In every case where property has not be specifically included within a
district, the same is hereby declared to be in the R-I District. Territory
annexed to or consolidated with the village subsequent to the effective date of
this chapter shall, upon the effective date of such annexation or consolidation
become a part of the R-I District (provided such territory is not subject to
county or township zoning regulations at the time of annexation). Such
districting shall be temporary and the Commission shall recommend to the
Council within a period of not to exceed one year from such date of annexation
or consolidation a final zoning district for the annexed territory; provided,
however, that nothing shall prevent the Commission from recommending such final
zoning map at the time of annexation or consolidation. (Upon annexation of
territory which is subject to county or township zoning regulations at the time
of annexation, the zoning regulations then in effect shall remain in full force
and shall be enforced by the respective county or township zoning officials
until the Village Council, upon recommendation of the Commission, shall
officially adopt new regulations for such territory in accordance with §§
153.445 through 153.451.)
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.021 SUMMARY OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
Summary of Zoning Districts
                    Height       Yards (Feet)                       Lot Area/
          Principal                                      Lot Width  Family
Districts Uses      Stories Feet Front Side (Total) Rear (Feet)     (Square
                                                                    Feet)
Summary of Zoning Districts
                          Height       Yards (Feet)                 Lot Area/
                                                             Lot    Family
Districts Principal Uses  Stories Feet Front   Side    Rear  Width  (Square
                                               (Total)       (Feet) Feet)

          Single-family
          residence
          churches,                                                 10,000
R-I       schools, public 2-1/2   30   30      20      40    90-100 and
          services,                                                 12,000
          libraries, and
          parks and
          playgrounds
          One-, two- and
          three-family
          residence,
R-II      churches,       2-1/2   30   30      26      30    80-90  8,000 and
          schools, public                                           9,000
          services, and
          parks and
          playgrounds
          Single- and
          multiple-family
          structures,
          rooming or
          boarding
R-III     houses, tourist 4       50   30      20-26   30-40 80-100 8,000
          homes, private                                            minimum
          clubs, home
          occupations,
          and
          professional
          offices
          Major retail
          outlets, food,
          drug and
          beverage
          establishments,
C-I       speciality      4       50   25      None*   25    None   None
          shops, swimming
          and
          recreational
          establishments,
          and business
          offices
          Major retail
          outlets,
          laundry or dry
          cleaning
C-II      establishments, 2-1/2   30   30      None*   40    100    12,000
          bottling works,
          and heating,
          cooling and
          electric
          establishments
          Light
          manufacturing
          and wholesale
I-I       business        –     50   30      10-10*  30    100    15,000
          establishments
          and research
          activities
          Manufacturing
          establishments
          of a moderate
I-II      and heavy       –     50   30      15-15   30    100    15,000
          nature, grain
          elevators, and
          machine shops
          Agricultural,
          forestry,
          public or                    35 from
          private non-                 public
FP        commercial      2-1/2   30   right-  15-15   15    None** None**
          recreation                   of- way
          facility, and
          parks and golf
          courses
          Mobile home
          park accessory
          uses, and
MH        public services –     20   35      20-20   20    40     4,000
          and facilities/
          recreation
          areas
          Residential,
          commercial,
          industrial or
          any combination
          of planned unit
          development
PUD       that allows for ***     ***  ***     ***     ***   ***    ***
          a certain
          amount of
          flexibility and
          freedom in
          design and
          project layout
*   Except lots adjoining a residential district
**   Except as specified by the Board of Zoning and Building Appeals
***   
 
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
EFFECTS OF DISTRICTING AND GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 153.035 CONFORMANCE REQUIRED.
   Except as hereinafter specified, no land, building, structure or premises
shall hereafter be used, and no building or part thereof, or other structure,
shall be located, erected, moved, reconstructed, extended, enlarged or altered
except in conformity with the regulations herein specified for the district in
which it is located; such regulations including, but without limitation, the
following: the use of buildings, structures or land, including performance
standards for the control of any “dangerous and objectionable elements” as
defined herein, in connection with such use; the height, size, dimensions or
buildings or structures; the size or dimensions of lots, yards and other open
spaces surrounding buildings; the provision, location, size, improvement and
operation of off-street parking, loading and unloading spaces.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.036 ADDITIONAL USES; COMMISSION DETERMINATION.
   Uses other than those specifically mentioned in this chapter as permitted
uses in each of the districts may also be allowed therein, provided that, in
the judgment of the Commission, as evidenced by resolution of record, such
other uses are of similar character to those mentioned and will have no adverse
influence or no more adverse influence on adjacent properties or the
neighborhood or the community than the permitted uses specifically mentioned
for the district.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.037 PROHIBITED USES.
   Within the limits of the village, no building or premises shall be used and
no building shall be erected which is arranged, intended or designed to be used
for any of the following specified purposes:
   (A)   Petroleum refining, blending or mixing of gasoline, benzol, kerosene
or any volatile petroleum derivative;
   (B)   Cement, lime, gypsum or plaster of Paris manufacturer;
   (C)   Chlorine or hydrochloric, nitric, picric or sulphuric acid manufacture
or the smelting of any metallic ore;
   (D)   The manufacture or storage of explosives;
   (E)   Slaughterhouse, distillation of bones, fat rendering, fertilizer,
manufacture or glue manufacture;
   (F)   Hair manufacture, reduction or dumping of offal or dead animals; and
   (G)   Trailer or mobile home unless located in a Mobile Home Park District
as provided for in §§
153.240 through
153.250.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.038 ADDITIONAL PROHIBITED USES; COMMISSION DETERMINATIONS.
   Uses other than those specifically prohibited in this chapter in any
district shall also be prohibited therefrom, provided that in the judgment of
the Commission, as evidenced by resolution of record, such other uses are
similar in character to those specifically prohibited in that they would have
similar or more serious adverse influence on adjacent properties or the
neighborhood or the community than the uses specifically mentioned as
prohibited in the district.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.039 CONVERSION OF DWELLINGS.
   (A)   The conversion of any building into a dwelling, or the conversion of
any dwelling so as to accommodate an increased number of dwelling units or
families, shall be permitted only within a district in which a new building for
similar occupancy would be permitted under this chapter and only when the
resulting occupancy will comply with the requirements governing new
construction in such district, with respect to minimum lot size, lot area per
dwelling unit, percentage of lot coverage, dimensions of yards
and other open spaces and off-street parking. Each conversion shall be subject
also to such further requirements as may be specified hereinafter within the
subchapter applying to such district.
   (B)   The aforesaid requirements with respect to lot coverage, yards and
other open spaces, shall not apply in case the conversion will not involve
major exterior structural changes and:
      (1)   There is either a shortage of not more than 10% in the required
dimensions or area of each of not more than two said requirements as to
coverage, yards and other open spaces; or
      (2)   In case the conversion will result in lot area per dwelling unit
for family, at least 20% greater than required for new buildings in the
district.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.040 YARD REQUIREMENTS ALONG ZONING BOUNDARY LINE IN THE LESS RESTRICTED
DISTRICTS.
   Along any zoning boundary line, on a lot adjoining such boundary line in the
less restricted district, any abutting side yard, rear yard or court, unless
subject to greater restrictions or requirements stipulated by other provisions
of this chapter, shall have a minimum width and depth equal to the average of
the required minimum width or depth for such yards, rear yards or courts in the
two districts on either side of such zoning boundary line. In cases where the
height of a proposed structure on such lot in the less restricted district is
greater than the maximum height permitted in the adjoining more restricted
district, the minimum depth or width of the side yard, rear yard or court for
such structure shall be determined by increasing the minimum width or depth for
the highest structure permitted in such more restricted district by one foot
for each two feet by which the proposed structure exceeds the maximum height
permitted in said more restricted district.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.041 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS IN R-RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS; WITHOUT MAIN
BUILDING.
   In any R-Residential District, no accessory building or structure shall be
erected or constructed prior to the erection or construction of the principal
or main building (exception: contractors’ temporary building).
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.042 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS; COMPLIANCE.
   Even though compliance with performance standards procedure, §§
153.290 and
153.291, may not be expressly required for a particular use, initial and
continued compliance with performance standards is required of every use.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.043 STREET FRONTAGE REQUIRED.
   Except as permitted by other provisions of this chapter, no lot shall
contain any building used in whole or part for residential purposes unless such
lot abuts for at least 50 feet on a street; and there shall not be more than
one single-family dwelling for such frontage. A dwelling otherwise in
compliance with any section of this chapter may be erected on any lot
separately owned on the effective date of this chapter or any lot in a recorded
subdivision that was on record on the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.044 TRAFFIC VISIBILITY ACROSS CORNER LOTS.
   In any R-Residential District on any corner lot, no fence, structure or
planting shall be erected or maintained within 25 feet of the corner (the point
of intersection of the right-of-way lines), which interferes with traffic
visibility across the corner.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.045 REQUIRED AREA OR SPACE CANNOT BE REDUCED.
   No lot, yard, court, parking area or other space shall be reduced in area or
dimension so as to make said area or dimension less than the minimum required
by this chapter. No part of a yard, parking area or other space provided about
or for, any building or structure for the purpose of complying with the
provisions of this chapter, shall be included as part of a yard, parking area
or other space required under this chapter for another building or structure.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.046 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   In every district, spaces for off-street parking and for off-street loading
and unloading shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of §§
153.305 through
153.311.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.047 ACCESSORY USES IN R-RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   The following shall apply.
   (A)   Accessory buildings in R-Residential Districts; general. An accessory
building may be erected detached from the principal building or may be erected
as an integral part of the principal building, or it may be connected therewith
by a breezeway or similar structures. Except as provided in §§
153.390 through
153.392, no accessory building shall be erected in any required yard except a
rear yard and shall not occupy more than 35% of a required rear yard. Accessory
buildings shall be distant at least six feet from any dwelling situated on the
same lot unless an integrated part thereof; at least six feet from any other
accessory building and at least five feet from any lot lines of adjoining lots
which are within an R-Residential District.
   (B)   Accessory buildings in R-Residential District; corner lots. In any R-
Residential District where a corner lot adjoins the rear of a lot fronting on a
side street, no part of any accessory building on such corner lot shall be
nearer a side street lot line than 25 feet and in no case shall any part of
such accessory building be nearer to the side street lot line than the least
width of the side yard required for a principal building.
   (C)   Accessory buildings in R-Residential District; front setback. No
accessory use or structure in any R-Residential District, except an off-street
parking area subject to the provisions of §§
153.305 through
153.311, shall be permitted nearer to any front lot line than 60 feet, unless
such use or structure is contained within or constitutes an integral part of
the main building; provided, that in case of a corner lot where the owner has
chosen the longer street lot line and all side and rear lot line requirements
are met in accordance with this chapter.
   (D)   Accessory buildings in R-Residential District; yard requirements.
Except as provided in §§
153.390 through
153.392, an accessory building if not located in the rear yard shall be an
integral part of, or connected with the principal building to which it is
accessory and shall be so placed as to meet all yard requirements for a
principal building of the same height and other dimensions as said accessory
building.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.048 ESSENTIAL SERVICES.
   Essential services shall be permitted as authorized and regulated by law and
other ordinances of the village subject to review by the Board.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.049 UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the strengthening or restoring to a
safe condition of any part of any building or structure declared unsafe by
proper authority (building permit is required).
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.050 PENDING APPLICATIONS FOR BUILDING PERMITS.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the overall layout
plans, construction, size or designated use of any development, building,
structure or part thereof, for which official approvals and required building
permits have been granted before the enactment of this chapter, the
construction of which shall have been started prior to the effective date of
this chapter.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.051 PARKING AND OCCUPANCY OF HOUSE TRAILERS AND CAMPERS.
   No person shall occupy any house trailer, mobile home or motor home or
camper for more than 72 hours. The storage of a mobile home, house trailer,
motor home or camper shall not be permitted in any front yard or the street
side yard of a corner lot for more than 72 hours. Camper body attached to a
pick-up truck or other similar vehicle shall not be construed as a motor home
or mobile home.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.052 PARKING OF BOATS AND TRAILERS.
   The storage of a boat or trailer shall not be permitted in any front yard or
the street side yard of a corner lot or the street front yard of any lot or the
street abutting any lot for more than 72 hours.
(Ord. 26-82, passed 11-2-1982) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.053 PARKING AND STORAGE OF UNLICENSED VEHICLES.
   No person shall park, store, keep or otherwise suffer any motor vehicle that
is inoperable or unlicensed or both to be stored or parked in any residential
district of the village unless stored or parked at all times in a garage or
accessory building that meets the requirements of the district or zone as set
forth herein.
(Ord. 30-02, passed 12-9-2002; Ord. 07-2020, passed 7-13-2020) Penalty, see §
153.999
NONCONFORMING USES
§ 153.065 ABANDONMENT.
   A nonconforming use existing on the effective date of this chapter may be
continued; provided, however that should such use be discontinued for a period
of two years or more, then such use shall be deemed abandoned and any further
use of such premises or a structure located on such premises shall be in
conformity with the use permitted in the district or location.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.066 RECONSTRUCTION.
   Any building or structure, existing and in use as a nonconforming use on the
effective date of this chapter which shall be destroyed by casualty or act of
God, may be reconstructed and restored; provided, however, that such is
commenced within one year from the date of such destruction.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.067 ALTERATION AND ENLARGEMENT.
   Any building or structure, existing and in use, or land devoted to a
nonconforming use on the effective date of this chapter may not be altered or
enlarged in a manner and form resulting in the extension of such nonconforming
use; provided, however, that the Village Board of Zoning and Building Appeals
shall have the power to grant a variance under the provisions of §§
153.425 through
153.434 hereof, allowing such extension under conditions as follows.
   (A)   The total alteration, enlargement or extension of existing structure
or structures or the erection of additional structures shall not increase the
nonconforming area of such original structures by a total of more than 25%.
   (B)   Such enlargement and/or extension shall not be detrimental in
consideration of the surrounding neighborhood, but that the granting thereof
shall remove an unnecessary hardship as to the owner thereof.
   (C)   The extension of such nonconforming use shall not reduce the area of a
contiguous or adjacent conforming use.
   (D)   When authorized by the Board, in accordance with the provisions of §§
153.425 through
153.434, the substitution for a nonconforming use of another not more
objectionable nonconforming use may be considered.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.068 STRUCTURES UNDER CONSTRUCTION.
   Any structure commenced as of the effective date of this chapter may be
completed, although nonconforming if completed within one year of the effective
date of this chapter.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
R-I RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.080 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the R-I Residential District to provide an area for low
density residential and associated land uses. In an R-I Residential District,
no building or premises shall be used and no building shall be erected which is
arranged, intended or designed to be used for other than one or more of the
following specified uses.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.081 USES PERMITTED IN THE R-I RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Single-family dwelling structure;
   (B)   Church, school, library, college building (including residence halls,
maintenance buildings and sports facilities), public park, playground and/or
buildings pertaining to the use thereof. Buildings and permanent structures
shall be located not less than 25 feet from any other lot in any R-
I Residential District;
   (C)   Farming, truck gardening or nursery, provided however, that any such
use permitted shall not be construed to permit the sale, trading or dealing in
the commodities or products thereof, other than as to those transactions which
are completely of a casual or incidental nature; and
   (D)   Accessory buildings and uses.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.082 CONDITIONAL USES; WITH APPROVAL BY THE VILLAGE ZONING AND BUILDING
BOARD OF APPEALS AFTER A PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   Country clubs, private clubs or lodges, golf courses and similar uses
and facilities. Buildings and structures shall be located not less than 75 feet
from any other lot;
   (B)   Utility substations and pump houses providing that such structures
will not detract from the general appearance of the area nor adversely affect
the comfort, safety or welfare of the residents of the area;
   (C)   Two-family dwelling structures;
   (D)   Home occupations: customary home occupations, such as handicrafts,
dressmaking, millinery, laundry, preserving and home cooking; provided that
such occupations shall be conducted exclusively by resident occupants, that not
more than one-quarter of the area of one floor of said residence shall be used
for such purpose, that no structural alterations involving features not
customarily found in dwellings are required, and that the entrance to the space
devoted to such use shall be from within the dwelling. An unlighted sign of not
over one square foot in area and attached flat against the building shall be
permitted;
   (E)   Funeral home;
   (F)   Essential services; and
   (G)   Bed and breakfast (B&B).
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979; Ord. 2-99, passed 2-8-1999)
§ 153.083 REQUIRED LOT AREA, FRONTAGE AND YARD IN THE R-I RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   All structures shall meet the following minimum standards:
 
                                            Side Yard
Use        Lot Area  Lot Width  Front Yard  Least Width  Sum Least   Rear Yard
           (sq. ft.) (ft.)      (ft.)       (ft.)        Width (ft.) (ft.)
Single-    8,000     80         30*         8            20          40**
family
Two-family 9,000     80         30*         8            20          40**
Other
permitted
uses       12,000    100        30*         10           30          40**
(except
agri)
* The least dimension of a front yard shall be 30 feet or not less than 20% of
the average or normal depth of the lot, whichever is largest.
** The least dimension of a rear yard shall be 40 feet or not less than 15% of
the depth of the lot, whichever is largest
 
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979; Ord. 12-80, passed 8-5-1980)
§ 153.084 CORNER LOTS.
   Corner lots shall have the same minimum front yard requirements on each
street side of the lot.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.085 HEIGHT REGULATION WITHIN THE R-I RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   No residential or other permitted or approved structure within the R-
I Residential District shall exceed two and one-half stories or 30 feet.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.086 REQUIRED FLOOR AREA IN THE R-I DISTRICT.
   Any building intended in whole or part for residential purposes shall
provide a minimum livable floor area as hereinafter specified:
 
Single-family structure 1,000 sq. ft.
Two-family structure    750 sq. ft. per unit
 
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
R-II RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.100 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the R-II Residential District is to provide an area for low
density single- and multiple-family residential and associated land uses
normally considered an integral part of the neighborhood they serve. In an R-II
Residential District, no building or premises shall be used and no building
shall be erected which is arranged, intended or designed to be used for other
than one or more of the following specified uses.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.101 USES PERMITTED IN THE R-II RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Any uses permitted in the R-I District;
   (B)   Multiple-family dwelling structures for occupancy by not more than
three families living independently of each other;
   (C)   Church, school, library, college building, public park playground and/
or buildings pertaining to the use thereof. Buildings and permanent structures
shall be located not less than 25 feet from any other lot in any R-II
Residential District; and
   (D)   Accessory buildings and uses.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.102 CONDITIONAL USES; WITH APPROVAL BY THE VILLAGE ZONING AND BUILDING
BOARD OF APPEALS AFTER A PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   Offices of doctors engaged in the practice of medicine, surgery,
optometry or dentistry, offices of attorneys at law, accountants, architects,
engineers, insurance brokers or salespersons or other service related
activities or occupations shall be permitted. This division (A) shall not
include any such activities or occupations, the primary characteristic of which
is the sale, at retail or wholesale of products, goods or commodities.
Occupations including the repair or maintenance of equipment or facilities used
in residential, commercial or industrial connections shall not be permitted.
The approval of both the Planning Commission and the Council of the village
shall first be obtained before the issuance of a building permit for the
erection or change in the structural form, either external or internal, of any
building or residence used for such office in order that the external
appearance and architectural design shall conform to the residential appearance
of the immediate neighborhood. Such approval shall be given by both such bodies
by simple resolution, on a majority vote to the affirmative and publication
thereof shall not be required;
   (B)   County clubs, private clubs or lodges, golf courses and similar uses
and facilities. Buildings and structures shall be located not less than 75 feet
from any other lot;
   (C)   Utility substations and pump houses providing that such structure will
not detract from the general appearance of the area nor adversely affect the
comfort, safety or welfare of the residents of the area;
   (D)   Home occupations: customary home occupations, such as, but not limited
to, handicrafts, dressmaking, millinery, laundry, preserving and home cooking;
provided that such occupations shall be conducted exclusively by resident
occupants, that not more than one-quarter of the area of one floor of said
residence shall be used for such purpose, that no structural alterations
involving features not customarily found in dwellings are required, and that
the entrance to the space devoted to such use shall be from within the
dwelling. An unlighted sign of not over one square foot in area and attached
flat against the building shall be permitted;
   (E)   Funeral home;
   (F)   Cemeteries;
   (G)   Essential services; and
   (H)   Bed and breakfast (B&B).
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979; Ord. 2-99, passed 2-8-1999)
§ 153.103 REQUIRED LOT AREA, FRONTAGE AND YARD IN THE R-II RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICT.
   All structures shall meet the following minimum standards:
                                         Side Yard
Use Lot Area (sq. Lot Width  Front Yard  Least Width  Sum Least   Rear Yard
    ft.)          (ft.)      (ft.)       (ft.)        Width (ft.) (ft.)
                                            Side Yard
Use        Lot Area  Lot Width  Front Yard  Least Width  Sum Least   Rear Yard
           (sq. ft.) (ft.)      (ft.)       (ft.)        Width (ft.) (ft.)
Single-    8,000     80         30*         8            20          30**
family
Two-family 9,000     80         30*         8            20          30**
Three-     9,000     90         30*         10           26          30**
family
Other
permitted  12,000    100        30*         10           30          40**
uses
* The least dimension of a front yard shall be 30 feet or not less than 20% of
the average or normal depth of the lot, whichever is largest.
** The least dimension of a rear yard shall be 30/40 feet or not less than 15%
of the depth of the lot, whichever is largest
 
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.104 CORNER LOTS.
   Corner lots should have the same minimum front yard requirements on each
street side of the lot.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.105 HEIGHT REGULATIONS WITHIN THE R-II RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   No residential or other permitted or approved structure within the R-II
Residential District shall exceed two and one-half stories or 30 feet.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.106 REQUIRED FLOOR AREA IN THE R-II DISTRICT.
   Any building intended in whole or part for residential purposes shall
provide a minimum livable floor area as hereinafter specified:
 
Single-family structure 1,000 sq. ft.
Two-family structure    750 sq. ft. per unit
Three-family structure  600 sq. ft. per unit
 
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
R-III RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.120 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the R-III Residential District is to provide an area for high
density multiple-family residential and associated land uses normally
considered an integral part of the neighborhood they serve. In a R-III
Residential District, no building or premises shall be used and no building
shall be erected which is arranged, intended or designed to be used for other
than one or more of the following specified areas.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.121 USES PERMITTED IN THE R-III RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Any uses permitted in the R-II District;
   (B)   Multiple-family dwelling structures and apartment hotels for any
number of families or housekeeping units, but not primarily for transients;
   (C)   Rooming or boarding houses, provided they are not primarily operated
for transients and provided also that any building in which such uses are
housed be located at 25 feet from any other lot in any residential district;
   (D)   A tourist house having not more than five guest rooms when located on
a state or federal highway provided the building in which such use is housed
shall be located at least 25 feet from other lots in any R-District;
   (E)   Private clubs, fraternities, sororities, lodges and meeting places for
other organizations not including any use that is conducted as a gainful
business, provided that the buildings in which such uses are housed shall be
located at least 25 feet from any other lot in any R-District;
   (F)   Building to be used exclusively to house the offices of civic,
religious or charitable organizations provided that the buildings in which such
uses are housed shall be located at least 25 feet from any other lot in any R-
District;
   (G)   Churches, schools, library, college buildings, public parks,
playgrounds and/or buildings pertaining to the use thereof. Buildings and
permanent structures shall be located not less than 25 feet from any other lot
in any R-District; and
   (H)   Accessory buildings and uses.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.122 CONDITIONAL USES; WITH APPROVAL BY THE VILLAGE ZONING AND BUILDING
BOARD OF APPEALS AFTER A PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   Same uses as are conditionally permitted and as regulated in the R-II
Residential District, except as specifically limited in this subchapter; and
   (B)   Rest homes, clinics, nursing homes.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.123 REQUIRED LOT AREA, FRONTAGE AND YARD IN THE R-III RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICT.
   All structures shall meet the following minimum standards:
                                         Side Yard
Use Lot Area (sq. Lot Width  Front Yard  Least Width  Sum Least   Rear Yard
    ft.)          (ft.)      (ft.)       (ft.)        Width (ft.) (ft.)
                                            Side Yard
Use        Lot Area  Lot Width  Front Yard  Least Width  Sum Least   Rear Yard
           (sq. ft.) (ft.)      (ft.)       (ft.)        Width (ft.) (ft.)
           2,500 sq.
Multi-     ft. per   100        30*         12           26          40**
family     dwelling
           unit
Single-    8,000     80         30*         8            20          30**
family
Three-     9,000     90         30*         10           26          30**
family
Two-family 8,000     80         30*         8            20          30**
Other
permitted  12,000    100        30*         12           26          40**
uses
* The least dimension of a front yard shall be 30 feet or not less than 20% of
the average or normal depth of the lot, whichever is largest.
** The least dimension of a rear yard shall be 30/40 feet or not less than 15%
of the depth of the lot, whichever is largest
 
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.124 CORNER LOTS.
   Corner lots shall have the same minimum front yard requirements on each
street side of the lot.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.125 HEIGHT REGULATION WITHIN THE R-III RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   No residential or other permitted or approved structure within the R-III
Residential District shall exceed four stories or 50 feet.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.126 REQUIRED FLOOR AREA IN THE R-III DISTRICT.
   Any building intended in whole or part for residential purposes shall
provide a minimum livable floor area as hereinafter specified:
 
Multi-family structure  550 sq. ft. per unit
Single-family structure 1,000 sq. ft.
Three-family structure  600 sq. ft. per unit
Two-family structure    750 sq. ft. per unit
 
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
C-I COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.140 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the C-I Commercial District is to provide an area for a wide
range of retail facilities
and services of such a nature as to be fully compatible in the close proximity
they must enjoy in a centralized commercial district. In a C-I Commercial
District, no building or premises shall be used and no building shall be
erected which is arranged, intended or designed to be used for other than one
or more of the following described uses.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.141 USES PERMITTED IN THE C-I COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Any use permitted in the R-III District except residences (refer to §
153.142 for conditional uses);
   (B)   Major retail outlets: furniture; hardware; department; appliance;
clothing; jewelry; shoe; paint; and wallpaper stores dealing entirely in the
retail sales of any product not restricted by the provisions of this section;
   (C)   Food, drug and beverage: grocery stores; supermarkets; meat markets;
fish market; bakery (in conjunction with retail sales); frozen food locker
facility; delicatessen; enclosed restaurant, ice cream parlor; and bars;
provided, however, that no establishment selling or serving alcoholic beverages
shall be located within 500 feet of a public school, playground, church or
private school, college or library measured from the nearest entrance and along
street lines;
   (D)   Specialty shops: gift shops; book, magazine and stationery outlets;
florist shops; camera shops; photography studios; sporting goods and drive-in
stores dealing entirely in the retail sale of any product and/or the servicing
in conjunction with the sale of any product or service not restricted by the
provisions of this section;
   (E)   Service and recreation: barber shops; beauty shops or any school
engaged in the teaching of or instruction in any trade; shoe repair and tailor
shop; appliance repair shop; laundromats using self-operating automatic
washers, dryers and appliances and non-inflammable fluids; dry cleaning
establishments using non-inflammable cleaning agents; printing shops with not
more than ten full-time regular employees; a funeral home or mortuary;
hospital; radio or television studio; bowling alley; poolroom; assembly hall;
enclosed theater; or any recreation facility;
   (F)   Business and professional offices: banks; savings and loan
institutions; public utilities offices; insurance and real estate offices;
office buildings; medical and dental office clinics; law and other professional
offices;
   (G)   Automotive and related uses: automobile sales room; farm implement
sales and related repair garage; automobile repair garage; customer parking
lots associated with a business establishment; motorcycle and bicycle sales and
repair shops; motor bus and cab terminals; gasoline service stations; provided
all volatile products are stored underground;
   (H)   Motels and hotels: hotel; motel; motor lodge;
   (I)   Rest homes, nursing homes and children’s nurseries; and
   (J)   Accessory uses or buildings.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.142 CONDITIONAL USES WITH APPROVAL BY THE VILLAGE BOARD OF ZONING AND
BUILDING APPEALS AFTER A PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   Single-, two-, three- and multi-family residential structures;
   (B)   Commercial storage facilities including garages;
   (C)   Commercial parking lots;
   (D)   Any wholesale distributing business;
   (E)   Any retail or wholesale industrial product distributing business;
   (F)   Laundry and dry cleaning plants;
   (G)   Building trades or equipment including building concrete, electrical,
masonry, sheet metal,
and heating and cooling shops, building material establishments and lumber
yards;
   (H)   Drive-in theaters, drive-in restaurants and refreshment stands; and
   (I)   Accessory uses or buildings.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.143 REQUIRED LOT AREA AND LOT WIDTH IN THE C-I DISTRICT.
   (A)   Residential uses. Each residential use to be accommodated in the C-
I District shall meet the minimum lot area and minimum lot width requirements
of the R-II Residential District.
   (B)   Commercial uses. No minimum lot area or minimum lot width is required
for commercial uses.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.144 BUILDING HEIGHT REGULATION IN THE C-I DISTRICT.
   No building shall exceed four stories or 50 feet in height, except as
provided in §§
153.375 through
153.377.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.145 REQUIRED YARDS IN THE C-I DISTRICT.
   (A)   Residential uses. Each residential use to be accommodated in the C-
I Commercial District shall meet the minimum yard requirements of the R-III
Residential District.
   (B)   Commercial uses.
 
Front yard 25 ft.*
           25 ft.; where a lot line abuts any alley, one-half of the width of
Rear yard  such alley may be considered in meeting a part of the rear yard
           requirements
           No minimum yard required, except lots adjoining a residential
Side yard  district shall provide a side yard on that adjoining side equal to
           that required in the adjoining residential district
* Or 55 feet from the center of the road if no right-of-way has been
established
 
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.146 LANDSCAPING OR SCREENING PROVISIONS.
   For nonresidential uses abutting an R-District, the minimum yards may be
reduced to 50% of the minimum side or rear yard requirements, if acceptable
landscaping or screening, approved by the Board is provided. Such screening
shall be six feet in height, maintained in good condition and free of all
advertising or other signs. Landscaping provided in lieu of such wall or fence
shall consist of a strip of land not less than 15 feet in width planted with
evergreen hedge, or dense planting of evergreen shrubs not less than four feet
in height at the time of planting.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
C-II COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.160 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the C-II Commercial District is to provide for those retail
businesses and services which require a location other than in the central
business district being either highway oriented, requiring larger tracts of
land not normally available in the central business district, or to provide
local neighborhood retail shopping facilities to those residential areas
immediately adjacent.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.161 USES PERMITTED IN THE C-II COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Any uses permitted in the residential districts;
   (B)   Any uses permitted in the C-I Commercial District;
   (C)   Dance hall;
   (D)   Book binding and upholstering shops, laundry or dry cleaning employing
a maximum of not more than ten persons, new and second hand automobile, truck,
trailer, farm implement sales and repair facilities; provided that the premises
shall be enclosed by a wall or fence at least six feet high when it adjoins in
the rear or on the side of any R-District, public park, school or church;
   (E)   Bottling works, plumbing, heating and cooling, electrical, concrete,
masonry, building material establishments (providing no assembly, construction,
millwork or concrete block manufacture is done on premises);
   (F)   Veterinary hospital for small animals;
   (G)   Sale at retail of any industrial product, including the repair or
maintenance of equipment or facilities used in any residential or industrial
connection; and
   (H)   An accessory use customarily incident to a use authorized by this
section shall be permitted in a C-II Commercial District provided such is not
otherwise classified by the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.162 CONDITIONAL USES; WITH APPROVAL BY THE VILLAGE ZONING AND BUILDING
BOARD OF APPEALS AFTER A PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   Commercial storage facilities including garages;
   (B)   Commercial parking lots or truck terminals (provided, however, that
adequate off-street parking facilities shall be provided to avoid congestion of
abutting streets, ways or alleys);
   (C)   Any wholesale distributing business, providing that such activities
shall not include the wholesaling of or distribution of live animals in
preparation thereof for sale;
   (D)   Lumber yards;
   (E)   Drive-in theaters, drive-in restaurants and refreshment stands;
   (F)   Animal kennels, display and housing or boarding of pets and other
domestic animals, provided that any enclosures or buildings in which the
animals are kept shall be at least 200 feet from any R-District and exercise
runs shall be enclosed on four sides by a sight obscuring, unpierced fence or
wall at least five feet in height; and
   (G)   Accessory uses or buildings.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.163 REQUIRED LOT AREA AND LOT WIDTH IN THE C-II DISTRICT.
   (A)   Residential uses. Each residential use to be accommodated in the C-II
District shall meet the minimum lot area and minimum lot width requirements of
the R-III District.
   (B)   Commercial uses. A minimum required lot area of 12,000 square feet and
a minimum lot width of 100 feet is required for commercial uses in the C-II
District.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.164 BUILDING HEIGHT REGULATION IN THE C-II DISTRICT.
   No building shall exceed two and one-half stories or 30 feet in height,
except as provided in §§
153.375 through
153.377.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.165 REQUIRED YARDS IN THE C-II DISTRICT.
   (A)   Residential uses. Each residential use to be accommodated in the C-II
Commercial District shall meet the minimum yard requirements of the R-III
Residential District.
   (B)   Commercial uses.
 
Front yard 30 ft.*
           40 ft.; where a lot line abuts any alley, one-half of the width of
Rear yard  such alley may be considered in meeting a part of the rear yard
           requirements
           No minimum yard required, except lots adjoining a residential
Side yard  district shall provide a side yard on that adjoining side equal to
           that required in the adjoining residential district
* Or 55 feet from the center of the road if no right-of-way has been
established
 
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.166 LANDSCAPING OR SCREENING PROVISIONS.
   For nonresidential uses abutting an R-District, the minimum yards may be
reduced to 50% of the minimum side or rear yard requirements, if acceptable
landscaping or screening, approved by the Board is provided. Such screening
shall be six feet in height, maintained in good condition and free of all
advertising or other signs. Landscaping provided in lieu of such wall or fence
shall consist of a strip of land not less than 15 feet in width planted with
evergreen hedge or dense planting of evergreen scrubs not less than four feet
in height at the time of planting.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.167 OTHER REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   Processes and equipment employed and goods processed or sold shall be
limited to those which are not objectionable by reason of odor, dust, smoke,
cinders, gas, fumes, noise, vibration, refuse matter or water-carried waste,
and must comply with the performance standards of this chapter.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
I-I LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.180 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of I-I Industrial District is to encourage the development of
manufacturing and wholesale business establishments which are clean, quiet and
free of hazardous or objectionable elements such as noise, odor, dust, smoke or
glare; operate entirely within enclosed structures and generate little
industrial traffic. Research activities are encouraged. This district is
further designed to act as a traditional use between heavy industrial uses and
other less intense business and residential uses.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.181 USES PERMITTED IN THE I-I INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Storage in bulk of or warehouse for, commodities such as building
materials, contractors, equipment, clothing, fibers, raw or finished, drugs,
dry goods, feed, fertilizer, food, solid fuels, furniture, hardware, ice,
machinery, metals, paint and paint materials, pipe, rubber and rubber products,
shop supplies, liquid fuels, petroleum or petroleum products or volatile oils
and liquids; provided, however, that the storage of liquid fuels, petroleum or
petroleum products, or volatile oils and liquids shall be underground and in
tanks of a maximum capacity of 20,000 gallons, built and constructed in
accordance with the minimum regulations of the state;
   (B)   Laundry or dry cleaning plants and facilities, printing, publishing
and reproduction establishments;
   (C)   Cold storage plants, breweries, milk bottling, ice plants and storage,
central distribution, wholesaling or processing plants;
   (D)   Veterinary hospital and animal kennels;
   (E)   Freight terminal, truck terminals and railroad yards, to include the
building of spur lines or switching facilities required or desirable in
connection with any use permitted under this section;
   (F)   Lumber yard or planning mill;
   (G)   Administrative, engineering, scientific research, design or
experimentation facility, assaying of ore by laboratory methods, and such
processing and fabrication as may be necessary thereto;
   (H)   Manufacturing, compounding, processing, packaging or treatment of:
bakery goods; candy; cosmetics; dairy products; drugs and pharmaceutical
products; soap (cold process only); and food products and bottling works,
except the following: fish or meat products; sauerkraut; sugar beets; vinegar;
yeast; and the rendering of fats and oils;
   (I)   Manufacturing or processing of small items, including gloves,
footwear, bathing caps, shoes,
boots, boxes and cartons, hardware, toys, electric batteries, motors or
generators, and textile products;
   (J)   Assembling of electrical appliances, radios and phonographs and
televisions, including the manufacturing of small parts only, such as coils,
condensers, transformers, crystal holders, electric and electronic parts and
equipment for wholesale; musical instruments, novelties, and light metal
products; and
   (K)   Essential services.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.182 CONDITIONAL USES; WITH APPROVAL BY THE VILLAGE ZONING AND BUILDING
BOARD OF APPEALS AFTER PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   Other manufacturing uses of a light nature, free from any
objectionable odors, fumes, dirt, vibration or noise detectable at the lot
line; and
   (B)   One dwelling unit for a caretaker and his or her family.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.183 ACCESSORY USES IN THE I-I DISTRICT.
   Accessory uses and structures customarily accessory and incidental to any of
the foregoing permitted uses in the I-I District.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.184 OTHER REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   Processes and equipment employed and goods processed or sold shall be
limited to those which are not objectionable by reason of odor, dust, smoke,
cinders, gas, fumes, noise, vibration, refuse matter or water-carried waste,
and must comply with the performance standards of this chapter.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.185 HEIGHT REGULATIONS IN THE I-I DISTRICT.
   No building in the I-I District shall exceed 50 feet in height.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.186 REQUIRED LOT AREA IN THE I-I DISTRICT.
   Each use to be established in the I-I Light Industrial District shall
provide a minimum lot area of 15,000 square feet and a minimum lot width of 100
feet.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.187 YARDS REQUIRED IN THE I-I DISTRICT.
   All structures to be constructed, altered or moved, in the I-I District
shall provide yards of the following minimum depths:
 
Front yard 30 ft.
Rear yard  30 ft.
Side yard  10 ft., except where a yard abuts a residential district in which
           case a side yard of 30 feet shall be provided
 
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.188 SCREENING REQUIRED BETWEEN INDUSTRIAL AND RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   Newly established industrial uses adjacent or backing on a residential
district shall provide on that adjacent property line a dense hedge, tree row,
fence or other suitable landscape device adequate to visually screen the
industrial area from the residential area. Plant material shall be a minimum of
four feet tall at the time of planting. Fences, walls or other landscape
devices shall be a minimum height of six feet.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
I-II GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.200 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the I-II General Industrial District is to encourage the
development of manufacturing
facilities of a moderate and heavy nature which are clean, quiet and free of
hazardous or objectionable elements such as noise, odor, smoke or glare.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.201 USES PERMITTED IN THE I-II INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Any use permitted in I-I Light Industrial District;
   (B)   Grain elevators, concrete plants and the manufacture, storage and sale
of related products;
   (C)   Light metal fabrication and casting plants (no noxious fumes);
   (D)   Establishments involved in the manufacturing, assembling, remodeling
and distribution of automobiles, trucks, boats, aircraft, gliders, household
goods, farm equipment, construction and building equipment and products, and
plastic and metal products; and
   (E)   Carpentry, woodworking and machine shops.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979-; Ord. 13-82, passed 4-26-1982)
§ 153.202 CONDITIONAL USES; WITH APPROVAL BY THE VILLAGE ZONING AND BUILDING
BOARD OF APPEALS AFTER PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   Any industrial manufacturing, storage or distribution establishment
not specifically mentioned above and deemed acceptable by the Board of Zoning
and Building Appeals for the district;
   (B)   One dwelling unit for a caretaker and his or her family;
   (C)   Storage, accumulation or baling of scrap, metals, bottles, rags,
paper, rubber or other articles
or matter commonly known as junk, or the wrecking, dismantling or salvaging of
motor vehicles or parts thereof;
   (D)   Stockyards or storage area for live animals;
   (E)   Processing facilities for the storage or dressing for sale as
wholesale or retail of poultry, meat or game or a meat packing, curing or
dressing establishment;
   (F)   Sewage disposal or treatment plant, including sanitary landfill and
other similar uses; and
   (G)   Chemical plants not emitting corrosive or toxic fumes beyond the
limits of the premises, including any plant the main operation of which is
concerned with the processing or synthesizing of chemical compounds or
derivatives, volatile in nature.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.203 ACCESSORY USES IN THE I-II DISTRICT.
   Accessory uses and structures customarily accessory and incidental to any of
the foregoing permitted uses in the I-I District.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.204 OTHER REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   Processes and equipment employed and goods processed or sold shall be
limited to those which are not objectionable by reason of odor, dust, smoke,
cinders, gas, fumes, noise, vibration, refuse matter or water-carried waste,
and must comply with the performance standards of this chapter.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.205 HEIGHT REGULATIONS IN THE I-II DISTRICT.
   No building in the I-II District shall exceed 50 feet in height.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.206 REQUIRED LOT AREA IN THE I-II DISTRICT.
   Each use to be established in the I-II General Industrial District shall
provide a minimum lot area of 15,000 square feet and a minimum lot width of 100
feet.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.207 YARDS REQUIRED IN THE I-II DISTRICT.
   All structures to be constructed, altered or moved in the I-II District
shall provide yards of the following depths:
 
Front yard 30 ft.
Rear yard  30 ft.
Side yard  15 ft., except where a yard abuts a residential district in which
           case a side yard of 30 feet shall be provided
 
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.208 SCREENING REQUIRED BETWEEN INDUSTRIAL AND RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   Newly established industrial uses adjacent or backing on a residential
district shall provide on that adjacent property line a dense hedge, tree row
or other suitable landscape device adequate to visually screen the industrial
area from the residential area. Plant material shall be a minimum of four feet
tall at the time of planting. Fences, walls or other landscape devices shall be
a minimum height or six feet.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
FP FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT
§ 153.220 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Floodplain District is to guide development in the flood
prone areas of any watercourse that is consistent with the requirements for the
conveyance of flood flows, and to minimize the expense and inconvenience to the
individual property owners and the general public as a result of flooding. Uses
permitted in this district are generally associated with open space,
recreational and agricultural land uses that will not hinder the movement of
floodwaters.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.221 USES PERMITTED IN THE FP FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT.
   (A)   Any customary agricultural use, forestry;
   (B)   Any public or private noncommercial recreation facility, including
fishing lakes, golf courses, parks and other similar uses;
   (C)   Water conservation works, including water supply works, flood control
and watershed protection, fish and game hatcheries and preserves, hydroelectric
power installations and the like; and
   (D)   Accessory uses and buildings.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.222 CONDITIONAL USES WITH APPROVAL BY THE VILLAGE ZONING AND BUILDING
BOARD OF APPEALS AFTER PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   Commercial recreation; such as commercial fishing lakes, rifle ranges
and gun clubs, providing they are not located closer than a 200 foot distance
from any R-District;
   (B)   Commercial mining; in accordance with all provisions of the Ohio
Revised Code; and
   (C)   Reclamation of lands subject to flooding, providing that no filling,
draining, construction of levees or other improvements intended to reduce the
danger of flood or erosion shall be authorized by the Board, unless the Board
finds that such reclamation work is in concert with objectives of the village
comprehensive plan; and that any such work is done under the supervision of a
competent, professional civil engineer.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.223 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   Buildings or structures authorized in the Floodplain District shall be built
on a permanent foundation and not obstruct natural drainage courses and
floodways. Equipment and materials stored in areas subject to flooding.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.224 REQUIRED LOT AREA AND LOT WIDTH IN THE FP DISTRICT.
   None, except as may be specified by the Board; provided that no structure
shall be located closer than 35 feet to any existing or proposed public right-
of-way, no closer than 15 feet to any side or rear lot line and no closer than
50 feet from the waters edge of any stream, river or body of water.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.225 HEIGHT REGULATIONS IN THE FP DISTRICT.
   No structure shall exceed two and one-half stories or 30 feet in height.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
MH, MOBILE HOME PARK DISTRICT
§ 153.240 PURPOSE.
   It is the intent and purpose of this subchapter to regulate the location and
to encourage, stabilize and protect the development of well planned mobile home
parks.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.241 APPROVAL PROCEDURES.
   Mobile home parks may be located only in the MH District. The procedure for
approval shall follow those as shown in this subchapter.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.242 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   The Commission shall review the particular facts and circumstances of each
proposed mobile home park in terms of the following standards and shall find
adequate evidence showing that the mobile home park development:
   (A)   Will be designed, constructed, operated and maintained so as to be
harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended
character of the general vicinity and that such use will not change the
essential character of the same area;
   (B)   Will not be hazardous or detrimental to existing or future neighboring
uses;
   (C)   Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and services
such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage, refuse
disposal and schools; or that the persons or agencies responsible for the
establishment of the proposed park shall be able to provide adequately any such
services;
   (D)   Will not create excessive additional requirements at public cost for
public facilities and services
and will not be detrimental to the economic welfare of the community;
   (E)   Will be consistent with the intent and purpose of this chapter and the
village comprehensive plan;
   (F)   Will have vehicular approaches to the property which shall be so
designed as not to create an interference with traffic on surrounding public
streets or roads;
   (G)   Will not result in the destruction, loss or damage of natural, scenic
or historic features of major importance; and
   (H)   Will meet all applicable national, state and local codes and laws
including, but not limited to the Ohio Revised Code, State Department of Health
or local health district, Ohio Sanitary Code, national or applicable local or
state electric code.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.243 CONTENTS OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   A written application shall be filed with the Zoning Inspector.
   (B)   At a minimum, the application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name, address and phone number of applicant;
      (2)   Legal description of property;
      (3)   Present use; existing and proposed zoning district;
      (4)   A vicinity map at a scale approved by the Commission, showing
existing property lines,
streets, utility lines, drainage ways, structures and such other items as the
Commission may require to show the relationship of the development to the
village comprehensive plan; and
      (5)   A proposed plan at a scale approved by the Commission showing the
location and dimensions of streets, and other roadways, lots, typical lot
improvements; areas for recreation, storage, off- or on-street parking; a
landscape plan showing plant material location and size; buffering, screening
or fencing; provisions for garbage and trash removal; location of utilities
including street lighting, pedestrian walkways; and such other things the
Commission deems necessary.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.244 MOBILE HOME PARK REQUIREMENTS.
   Mobile home parks shall meet the following requirements.
   (A)   Park size. A mobile home park shall contain a minimum of ten acres.
   (B)   Density. The maximum density shall not exceed six mobile homes per
gross acres.
   (C)   Width and depth. The minimum width of the mobile home park development
shall not be less than 300 feet. The ratio of width to depth shall not exceed
one to five (1:5).
   (D)   Yards.
      (1)   All mobile homes or accessory buildings shall be located no closer
than 35 feet from the front property lines, nor closer than 20 feet from the
side or rear property line. However, if the side or rear property line abuts an
arterial street as shown on the major thoroughfare plan, the minimum side or
rear yard shall be 35 feet.
      (2)   All mobile home parks containing three or more mobile homes shall
be licensed by the state.
   (E)   Access. All mobile home parks should have access to adequate collector
streets with right-of- way not less than 60 feet in width. Marginal access
roads may be required if deemed necessary for mobile home parks that would have
direct access onto an arterial street.
   (F)   Streets. The design and construction of the interior street system
shall be sufficient to adequately serve the size and density of the
development. All streets shall be paved (curbs and gutters shall be included)
and shall not be less than 30 feet in width. The design and construction of the
interior street system shall conform to requirements of the Village Council.
Parking on interior streets shall not be permitted unless the pavement width is
35 feet at a minimum. Street width shall be measured from back of curb to back
of curb.
   (G)   Walkways. All mobile home parks shall have paved pedestrian walkways
at least four feet in width and be made of portland cement concrete of a
thickness of not less than four inches. The design and construction of the
system shall be subject to the approval of the Village Council. The location of
necessary walkways shall be decided by the Commission and may vary relative to
location, intensity of use and location of recreational areas and service
buildings.
   (H)   Recreation and open space. At least 10% of the gross land area of the
mobile home park shall be reserved for recreational and open space uses. This
figure is in addition to any other open space areas required by yard
requirements or other sections of this chapter. A clustering of units is
encouraged.
   (I)   Buffering and screening. The outer boundaries of a mobile home park
shall contain a buffer zone. This buffer zone shall be composed of a green
strip, not less than 20 feet in width, located along all park boundaries. The
type of plantings shall be approved by the Commission. The green strip may be
in a yard adjacent to a street or road, provided all other provisions of the
chapter are met.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.245 MOBILE HOME PARK LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   Individual mobile home lots within mobile home parks shall conform to the
following requirements.
   (A)   Lot size. Each mobile home lot shall contain a minimum area of 4,000
square feet.
   (B)   Lot width and depth. The minimum width of each mobile home lot shall
be 40 feet and the minimum depth of each lot shall be 100 feet. The minimum
width of corner lots shall be 50 feet.
   (C)   Clearance. There shall be a minimum clearance of 20 feet between
individual mobile homes and a minimum clearance of 30 feet between an
individual mobile home and another building not directly accessory to the
mobile home itself. Any freestanding auxiliary building shall not be placed in
the clear area required between trailers, trailers and lot lines and trailers
and roadways.
   (D)   Driveway and parking. Each mobile home lot shall be provided with a
paved driveway to accommodate off-street parking for two vehicles. The size of
the driveway shall not be less than 400 square feet.
   (E)   Walkway. Each mobile home lot shall be provided with a two feet in
width walkway made of portland concrete of a thickness of not less than four
inches, leading from the main entrance to the main walkway or adjacent street.
The design and construction of the system shall be subject to the approval of
the Village Council.
   (F)   Mobile home base. Each mobile home lot shall be provided with a stable
base upon which to place the mobile home. This base shall be approved by the
Commission.
   (G)   Patio. Each mobile home lot shall be provided with a paved concrete
patio area at least 100 square feet in area. The patio should be located on the
entrance side of the mobile home.
   (H)   Anchors. Each mobile home lot shall be provided with anchors and tie
downs such as cast-in-place concrete “dead men” eyelets imbedded in the
concrete runways, screw augers, arrowhead anchors, or other devices for
securing the stability of the mobile home.
   (I)   Corner markers. The four corners of each mobile home lot shall be
marked in a manner acceptable to the Commission.
   (J)   Skirting. Each mobile home shall be skirted, entirely enclosing the
bottom section, within 90 days after its placement.
   (K)   Landscaping. On each mobile home lot, at least one deciduous hardwood
tree of a minimum of one and one-half inch caliper measuring at a height of
four feet on the trunk shall be planted in the front yard.
   (L)   Floor area. Each mobile home placed within the mobile home park shall
have a minimum area of 400 square feet.
   (M)   Height. The maximum height of mobile homes and accessory buildings
shall not exceed 20 feet.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.246 MOBILE HOME UTILITIES AND OTHER SERVICE.
   Mobile home park utility and other services shall conform to the following
requirements.
   (A)   Storm drainage. Within each mobile home park, storm drainage shall be
provided in accordance with the following requirements.
      (1)   All areas of a mobile home park shall be graded in a manner so that
there will be no poorly drained areas. Grading shall not obstruct the natural
drainage of surrounding properties.
      (2)    Open drainage ditches are prohibited. All drainage systems shall
be designed in accordance with the requirements of the Village Council.
   (B)   Water. Within each mobile home park, there shall be installed a water
supply and distribution system in conformance with the requirements of the
County Board of Health and the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency. Each
mobile home lot shall be connected to this system.
   (C)   Sewage disposal. Within each mobile home park, there shall be
installed a sanitary waste distribution system which shall be connected with
the municipal sewer system where available. Where a municipal sewer system is
not available, a central treatment plant shall be located, constructed and
maintained in accordance with the regulations of the County Board of Health and
the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency. Each mobile home lot shall be
connected to this system.
   (D)   Electrical system. Each mobile home shall be provided with suitable
electrical equipment in accordance with the National Electrical Code and local
codes to provide not less than 60 amperes of power capability. All equipment
shall be grounded and weatherproofed.
   (E)   Lighting. All interior streets and walkways shall be lighted by not
less than 3/10 foot candle of artificial light.
   (F)   Underground utilities. Within each mobile home park, all utility
lines, including those for electricity and telephone service shall be located
underground.
   (G)   Garbage and refuse storage. The storage and collection of garbage and
refuse within each mobile home park shall be conducted so as to create no
health hazards, rodent harborage, insect breeding area, fire hazards or air
pollution. All garbage shall be stored in rust-resistant, water-tight, fly-
tight, rodent-proof containers. These containers shall be located no more than
150 feet from any mobile home lot, and shall be collected at least once weekly.
   (H)   Fire protection. Within each mobile home park, there shall be provided
a fire protection system approved by the Ohio Department of Health and local
fire authority. Standard fire hydrants should be located within 400 feet of all
mobile homes. If standard fire hydrants are not feasible, there shall be
installed within 300 feet of each mobile home lot a two inch frost protected
riser with a two and one-half- inch hose connection. Portable fire
extinguishers should be provided at convenient and accessible locations.
   (I)   Service buildings. Service buildings may be provided by the management
of offices, repair and storage, laundry facilities and indoor recreation areas.
No such building shall be located closer than 50 feet from any mobile home.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.247 LENGTH OF OCCUPANCY.
   No mobile home shall remain in a mobile home park for a period exceeding ten
days without connection to the permanent sanitary sewer system of the park.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.248 SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS.
   In approving a mobile home park, the Commission may prescribe appropriate
conditions and safeguards in conformity with this subchapter. Violation of such
conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the zoning permit, shall be
deemed a violation of this chapter and punishable under §§
153.405 through
153.410 and
153.999 of this chapter.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.249 PERMITTED USES.
   Within a mobile home park the following uses only shall be permitted:
   (A)   One permanent type dwelling structure if such dwelling is to be
occupied by a resident-manager;
   (B)   Buildings or permanent type structures used exclusively to provide
services for occupants of the park; such as a recreation building, swimming
pool and bath house, laundry room, mobile home park office, storage rooms and
the like;
   (C)   Accessory buildings or structures that are clearly incidental and
attached to a mobile home; such as a carport, cabana, Florida room and the
like; and
   (D)   Advertising signs subject to all the following provisions:
      (1)   (a)   One identification type sign advertising the mobile home park
upon which it is located may be erected provided that no portion of the sign or
its supports shall be double faced, and may be lighted if lighting is arranged
in such manner that it will not distract or temporarily blind a motorist on the
adjacent public street. The maximum area of the sign, including any border
around it, shall be not more than one square foot for each lineal foot of
frontage of the mobile home park or 50 square feet, whichever is least.
         (b)   The maximum height of the sign shall not exceed 25 feet above
ground.
      (2)   Directional signs as approved necessary by the Commission to assist
in guiding persons to various locations within the park. Such signs may be
double faced and lighted. The maximum area of each sign shall not exceed two
square feet.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.250 PROHIBITED USES.
   Within a mobile home park only those uses specifically listed as permitted
uses shall be authorized, and all other uses including, but not necessarily
limited to, the following shall be prohibited:
   (A)   Boats and recreational vehicles of any type, except those owned by the
occupants of the park and stored in the area within the park designed and
intended as a common storage area for such vehicles;
   (B)   Repair and/or sale of vehicles of any type, including mobile homes,
except for the repair or sale of an individual vehicle by the owner or occupant
thereof;
   (C)   Buildings or permanent type structures for uses other than those
listed as permitted uses; and
   (D)   Any advertising sign other than listed as a permitted use.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979) Penalty, see §
153.999
PUD, PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
§ 153.265 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The village officials concerned with property development shall take
into account that it is increasingly difficult to forecast the various
conditions and factors that may be encountered in sizable developments, and
that certain latitude, flexibility and freedom in the execution of the design
and layout of a project should be suggested or otherwise permitted by the
village so as to encourage and provide amenities which are unique to the
community.
   (B)   The purpose of a PUD, Planned Unit Development District is to provide
for an area that offers a maximum choice of living environments by allowing:
      (1)   A variety of housing and building types and permitting an increased
density per acre and a reduction in lot dimensions, yards, building setbacks
and area requirements;
      (2)   A more useful pattern of open space and recreation areas and, if
permitted as part of the project, more convenience in the location of accessory
commercial uses and services;
      (3)   A development pattern which preserves and utilizes natural
topography and geologic features, scenic vistas, trees and other vegetation,
and prevents the disruption of natural drainage patterns;
      (4)   A more efficient use of land than is generally achieved through
conventional development resulting in substantial savings through shorter
utilities and streets; and
      (5)   A development pattern in harmony with land use density,
transportation facilities, community facilities and objectives of the village
comprehensive plan.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.266 GENERAL.
   (A)   Planned unit developments may be residential, commercial or industrial
developments, or any combination. The minimum site area for a residential
development shall be ten acres, for a commercial development five acres, and
for an industrial development 30 acres. If a combination of uses is proposed, a
minimum area shall be 30 acres. In combination developments, the amount of land
devoted to commercial usage shall not exceed 8% of the total land area. Not
more than 12% of the total land area shall be devoted to industrial activities.
   (B)   A planned unit development in a residential development of less than
ten acres shall be allowed, only if all the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The Village Planning Commission, after public hearing, approves the
request;
      (2)   Village Council adopts the recommendation of the Planning
Commission should the Planning Commission recommend a PUD of less than ten
acres for a residential district and only after public hearing in front of the
Village Council; and
      (3)   (a)   Any PUD of less than ten acres would be decided on a case-by-
case basis and no PUD of less than ten acres would be approved by either the
Planning Commission or Council unless extraordinary circumstances exist. The
burden to establish extraordinary circumstances in those instances in which a
PUD of less than ten acres is requested, shall be placed on the entity
requesting a PUD of less than ten acres in a residential development.
         (b)   Any PUD of less than ten acres in a residential development
shall meet R-I density requirements, and maintain a minimum 30 foot setback off
all adjacent properties and public rights-of- way.
(Ord. 16-79, passed - -; Ord. 25-96, passed 6-24-1996)
§ 153.267 RESIDENTIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   Residential planned unit developments may be developed subject to the
following provisions.
   (A)   Minimum lot sizes.
      (1)   Lot area per dwelling unit may be reduced to not less than 70% of
the minimum lot area required in the R-III District. A diversification of lot
sizes is encouraged.
      (2)   Lot widths may be varied to allow for a variety of structural
designs. It is also recommended that setbacks be varied.
   (B)   Lots to abut upon common open space. Every property developed under
the planned unit development approach should be designed to abut upon common
open space or similar areas. A clustering of dwellings is encouraged. In areas
where townhouses are used there shall be no more than eight townhouse units in
any contiguous group.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.268 COMMON OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   A minimum of 20% of the land developed in any planned unit development
project shall be reserved for common open space and recreational facilities for
the residents or uses of the area being developed.
   (B)   The open space shall be disposed of as required in §
153.269.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.269 DISPOSITION OF OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   The required amount of common open space land reserved under a planned
unit development shall be held in corporate ownership by owners of the project
area for the use of each owner who buys property within the development and
retained as common open space for parks, recreation and related uses. All land
must meet the Commissioner’s requirements as to size, shape and location.
   (B)   Public utility and similar easements and rights-of-way for
watercourses and other similar channels are not acceptable for common open
space dedication unless such land or right-of-way is usable as a trail or other
similar purpose and approved by the Commission.
   (C)   The responsibility for the maintenance of all open spaces shall be
specified by the developer before approval of the final development plan.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.270 SUBMITTAL.
   A planned unit development plan shall be submitted to the Commission and
shall be referred to the Village Council for study, report and for public
hearings. Notice and publication of such public hearings shall conform to the
procedures prescribed in §§
153.445 through
153.451 for hearings on changes and amendments.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.271 PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   In order for the Commission to determine that the planned unit development
meets all requirements, the developer shall furnish a preliminary plan for the
entire tract showing:
   (A)   Proposed general lot layout, existing building locations and general
land use areas;
   (B)   Proposed traffic circulation, parking area, common open space areas,
pedestrian walks and landscaping; and
   (C)   Proposed construction sequence for buildings, parking spaces and
landscaped areas.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.272 FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   The owner/developer shall submit a final development plan to the
Commission for review, together with the application for a change of district
classification, if applicable once the preliminary plan has been approved by
the Commission.
   (B)   The development plan shall be prepared by an architect, landscape
architect, engineer or planning consultant, and shall include the following
information:
      (1)   Survey of the property, showing existing features of the property,
including contours, buildings, structures, trees over four inches in trunk
diameter, streets, utility easements, rights-of-way and land use;
      (2)   Site plan showing proposed building locations and land use areas;
      (3)   Traffic circulation, parking areas, open space areas and pedestrian
walks;
      (4)   Landscaping plans, including site grading and landscape design;
      (5)   Preliminary drawings for buildings to be constructed in the current
phase, including floor plans, exterior elevations and sections;
      (6)   Preliminary engineering plans, including street improvements,
drainage system and public utility extensions;
      (7)   Engineering feasibility studies of the anticipated problems which
might arise due to the proposed development as required by the Commission; and
      (8)   Construction sequence and time schedule for completion of each
phase for buildings, parking space and landscaped areas.
   (C)   The development plan shall be in general conformance with the approved
preliminary development plan. Approval shall be secured by the owner for each
phase of the development. Such approval shall be valid for three years, at
which time, unless the proposed development has been completed, the development
plan approval shall expire.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.273 COMMISSION FINDINGS REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   The Commission, after determining that all the requirements of
§§
153.265 through
153.276 dealing with planned unit development districts have been met, shall
recommend the approval, approval with modifications or disapproval of the
development plan.
      (2)   The Commission shall enter its reasons for such action in its
record.
   (B)   The Commission may recommend the establishment of a planned unit
development district provided that it finds the facts submitted with the
development plan establish that:
      (1)   The uses proposed will not be detrimental to present and potential
surrounding uses, but will have a beneficial effect which could not be achieved
under any other district;
      (2)   Any exception from this chapter’s requirements is warranted by the
design and amenities incorporated in the development plan;
      (3)   Land surrounding the proposed development can be planned in
coordination with the proposed development and that it be compatible in use;
      (4)   The proposed change to a planned unit development district is in
conformance with the general intent of the village comprehensive plan;
      (5)   Existing and proposed streets are suitable and adequate to carry
anticipated traffic within the proposed district and in the vicinity of the
proposed district;
      (6)   Existing and proposed utility services are adequate for the
proposed development;
      (7)   Each phase of the proposed development, as it is proposed to be
completed contains the required parking spaces, landscape and utility area
necessary for creating and sustaining a desirable and suitable environment; and
      (8)   The proposed planned unit development district and all proposed
buildings, parking spaces and landscape and utility areas can be completely
developed within five years of the establishment of the district.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.274 USES PERMITTED IN PUD DISTRICTS.
   (A)   (1)   Only those uses permitted or conditionally permitted in previous
districts of this chapter may be proposed for inclusion in a planned unit
development.
      (2)   Compatible residential, commercial, industrial, public and quasi-
public uses may be combined provided that the proposed location of the
commercial or industrial uses will not adversely affect adjacent property, and/
or the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   The amount of land devoted to commercial and/or industrial use in a
residential-commercial- industrial or residential-commercial development shall
be determined by the Commission.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.275 HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.
   Height regulations shall be specified in the R-III District or as approved
by the Commission.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.276 ACCEPTANCE BY ACTION OF VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   (A)   Following the recommendation of the Zoning Commission and a public
hearing, the Village Council may approve, approve with modification or
disapprove the plan, consistent with the intent and meaning of this chapter,
and if the plan is approved, may rezone the property to the PUD classification
permitting the proposal, for development in conformity with the final plan as
approved by the Commission.
   (B)   After the final development plan has been approved by the Village
Council and in carrying out this plan, consistent with the intent and meaning
of this chapter, and if the plan is approved, may rezone the property to the
PUD classification permitting the proposal, for development in conformity with
the final plan as approved by the Commission.
   (C)   Planned unit developments shall be encouraged, but they shall conform
to the regulations of this subchapter or to the following modifications of the
regulations found elsewhere in this chapter.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
SPECIAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.290 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   No land or building in any district shall be used or occupied in any manner
so as to create any dangerous, injurious, noxious or otherwise objectionable
element or condition unless the following performance standards are observed.
   (A)   Fire hazards. Any activity involving the use of flammable or explosive
materials shall be protected by adequate firefighting and fire suppression
equipment and by such safety devices as are normally used in the handling of
any such material.
   (B)   Radioactivity or electrical disturbances. No activity shall emit
dangerous radioactivity at any point, or electrical disturbance adversely
affecting the operation at any point of any equipment other than that of the
creator of such disturbance.
   (C)   Noise. Noise which is objectionable as determined by the Board due to
volume, frequency or beat shall be muffled or otherwise controlled, except
during construction operations. Air raid sirens and related apparatus used
solely for public purposes are exempt from this requirement.
   (D)   Vibration. No vibration shall be permitted which is discernible
without instruments on any adjoining lot or property.
   (E)   Air pollution. Air pollution shall be subject to the requirements and
regulations established by the Director of the Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency.
   (F)   Glare. No direct or reflected glare shall be permitted which is
visible from any property or from any public street, road or highway.
   (G)   Erosion. No erosion, by either wind or water, shall be permitted which
will carry objectionable substances onto neighboring properties.
   (H)   Water pollution. Water pollution shall be subject to the requirements
and regulations established by the Director of the Ohio Environmental
Protection Agency.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.291 ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   (1)   All uses existing on the effective date of this chapter shall
conform to these performance requirements within two years, provided, that an
extension of up to six months may be granted by the Board.
      (2)   Extensions may be granted by the Board if the owner or operator of
the use can demonstrate that compliance would create an unreasonable hardship.
   (B)   The Zoning Inspector shall refer any proposed use which is likely to
violate performance requirements to the Village Council.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS
§ 153.305 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Surfaced off-street automobile parking shall be provided on any lot on which
any of the following uses are hereafter established. Such space shall be
provided with vehicular access to a street or alley. For purposes of computing
gross off-street parking area required, the ratio of 200 square feet per
parking space shall be used.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.306 NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES REQUIRED.
   The number of off-street parking spaces required shall be as set forth in
the following:
Use Parking Spaces Required
Use                                           Parking Spaces Required
Automobile or machinery sales and service     1 for each 600 sq. ft. floor area
garages
Banks, business, and three or more            1 for each 400 sq. ft. of floor
professional offices                          area
Bowling alleys                                5 for each alley plus 1 for each
                                              employee
Churches or temples                           1 for each 4 seats in the main
                                              auditorium
Country club or golf club                     1 for each 5 members
Dance halls and assembly halls without fixed  1 for each 100 sq. ft. of floor
seats, exhibition halls except church         area used for assembly or dancing
assembly rooms in conjunction with auditorium
Dwellings, including 1-, 2- and 3-family,     2 for each family dwelling unit
multiple dwellings and summer cottages
                                              1 for each 50 sq. ft. of floor
Funeral homes, mortuaries                     area in slumber rooms, parlors or
                                              individual funeral service rooms
Furniture and appliance stores, household     1 for each 200 sq. ft. of floor
equipment or furniture repair shop over 1,000 area plus 1 space for each
sq. ft. of floor area                         employee
Hospitals                                     1 for each 3 beds plus 1 space
                                              for each employee
Hotels, lodging houses                        1 for each bedroom
Libraries, museum or art galleries or         10 plus 1 additional for each 300
community center                              sq. ft. of floor area in excess
                                              of 2,000 sq. ft.
Manufacturing plants, research or testing     1 for each 3 employees in the
laboratories, bottling plants over 1,000 sq.  maximum working shift or 1,200
ft. in area                                   sq. ft. of floor whichever is
                                              greater
Medical or dental clinics                     1 for each 400 sq. ft. of floor
                                              area
Motel, motor hotels and tourist home          1 for each living or sleeping
                                              unit
Private club or lodge                         1 for each 10 members
Restaurants, beer parlors and night clubs or  1 for each 2 seats plus 1 for
over 1,000 square feet in area                each employee
Retail stores, shops and the like of over     1 for each 200 sq. ft. of floor
2,000 sq. ft. floor area                      area plus 1 for each employee
Sanitariums, convalescent homes, children’s 1 for each 3 beds plus 1 for each
homes                                         employee
                                              1 for each 8 seats in an
School, technical institution or college      auditorium or 3 for each 1
                                              classroom, whichever is greater
Sports arena, auditoriums, theaters, assembly 1 for each 3 seats or bench
halls, other than schools                     seating spaces
                                              1 for each 3 employees on maximum
Wholesale establishments or warehouses        shift or for each 3,000 sq. ft.
                                              of floor area, whichever is
                                              greater
 
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979; Ord. 26-82, passed 11-2-1982)
§ 153.307 DEVELOPMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF PARKING AREAS.
   Every parcel of land hereafter used as a public or private parking area,
including a commercial parking lot and also an automobile or trailer sales lot,
shall be developed and maintained in accordance with the following
requirements.
   (A)   Screening and landscaping. Off-street parking areas for more than five
vehicles shall be effectively screened on each side which adjoins premises
situated in any R-District by a masonry wall or solid fence of acceptable
design. Such wall or fence shall be between four and six feet in height and
shall be maintained in good condition. Landscaping provided in lieu of such
wall or fence shall consist of a strip of land not less than 15 feet in width
planted with an evergreen hedge, or dense planting of evergreen shrubs not less
than four feet in height.
   (B)   Surfacing. Any off-street parking area for more than five vehicles
shall be graded for proper drainage and surfaced with a durable hard surface,
such as concrete or asphaltic concrete.
   (C)   Lighting. Any lighting used to illuminate any off-street parking area
shall be so arranged as to reflect the light away from adjoining premises in
any R-District.
   (D)   Joint use of parking areas. Parking spaces may be located on a lot
other than that containing the principle use with approval of the Board
provided a written agreement, approved by the Board and accepted by the Village
Council shall be filed with the application for a zoning permit.
   (E)   Parking area; modifications. The Board may authorize on appeal a
modification, reduction or
waiver of the foregoing requirements, if it should find that, in the particular
case appealed the peculiar nature of the residential, business, trade,
industrial or other use, or in the exceptional shape or size of the property or
other exceptional situation or condition, would justify such action. No action
shall be taken by the Board unless and until it has first received the
recommendation of the Planning Commission regarding the appeal.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.308 OFF-STREET LOADING.
   In any district, in connection with every building or part thereof erected
and having a gross floor area of 5,000 square feet or more, which is to be
occupied by manufacturing, storage, warehouse, goods display, retail store,
wholesale store, market, hotel, hospital, mortuary, laundry, dry cleaning or
other uses similarly requiring the receipt or distribution by vehicles of
material or merchandise, there shall be provided and maintained on the same lot
with such building, at least one off-street loading space, plus one additional
such loading space for each 10,000 square feet or major fraction thereof, or
gross floor area so used in excess of 10,000 square feet.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.309 LOADING SPACE; DIMENSIONS.
   Each loading space shall be not less than ten feet in width, 25 feet in
length, and 14 feet in height.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.310 LOADING SPACE; OCCUPY YARD.
   Subject to the limitations in §
153.311 such may occupy all or any part of any required yard.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.311 LOADING SPACE; DISTANCE FROM R DISTRICT.
   No space shall be closer than 50 feet to any other lot located in any R-
District, unless wholly within a completely enclosed building or unless
enclosed on all sides by a wall or uniformly painted solid board fence not less
than six feet in height.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
EXTRACTION OF MINERALS
§ 153.325 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Any owner, lessee or other person, firm or corporation having an interest in
mineral lands in any district may file with the Commission an application for
authorization to mine minerals therefrom; provided, however, that he or she
shall comply with all requirements of the district in which said property is
located, and with the following additional requirements.
   (A)   Distance from property lines. No quarrying operation shall be carried
on or any stock pile placed closer than 50 feet to any property line unless a
greater distance is specified by the Commission where such is deemed necessary
for the protection of adjacent property; provided that this distance
requirement may be reduced to 25 feet by written consent of the owner or owners
of the abutting property.
   (B)   Distance from public right-of-way. In the event that the site of the
mining or quarrying operations is adjacent to the right-of-way of any public
street or road, no part of such operation shall take place closer than 25 feet
to the nearest line of such right-of-way.
   (C)   Fencing. Fencing shall be erected and maintained around the entire
site or portions thereof where in the opinion of the Commission such fencing is
necessary for the protection of the public safety, and shall be of a type
specified by the Commission.
   (D)   Equipment. All equipment and machinery shall be operated and
maintained in such manner as to minimize dust, noise and vibration. Access
roads shall be maintained in dust-free condition by surfacing or other
treatment.
   (E)   Processing. The crushing, washing and refining or other similar
processing may be authorized by the Commission as an accessory use; provided,
however, that such accessory processing shall not be in conflict with the use
regulations or the district in which the operation is located.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.326 APPLICANT; FINANCIAL ABILITY.
   In accepting such plan for review, the Commission must be satisfied that the
proponents are financially able to carry out the proposed mining operation in
accordance with the plans and specifications submitted.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.327 APPLICATION; CONTENTS, PROCEDURE.
   An application for such operation shall set forth the following information:
   (A)   Name of the owner or owners of land from which removal is to be made;
   (B)   Name of applicant making request for such permit;
   (C)   Name of person or corporation conducting the actual removal operation;
   (D)   Location, description and size of the area from which removal is to be
made;
   (E)   Location of processing plant used;
   (F)   Type of resources or materials to be removed;
   (G)   Proposed method of removal and whether or not blasting or other use of
explosives will be required;
   (H)   Description of equipment to be used; and
   (I)   Method of rehabilitation and reclamation of the mined area.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.328 PUBLIC HEARING.
   Upon receipt of such application, the Commission shall set the matter for a
public hearing following the procedures as shown in §§
153.445 through
153.451.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.329 REHABILITATION.
   To guarantee the restoration, rehabilitation and reclamation of mine-out
area, every applicant granted a mining permit as herein provided, shall furnish
a performance bond running to the village in an amount of not less than $1,000
and not more than $40,000 as a guarantee that such applicant, in restoring,
reclaiming and rehabilitating such land, shall within a reasonable time and to
the satisfaction of the Commission meet the following minimum requirements.
   (A)   Surface rehabilitation. All excavation shall be made either to a water
producing depth, such depth to be not less than five feet below the low water
mark, or shall be graded or backfilled with non- noxious, noninflammable and
non-combustible solids, or secure:
      (1)   The excavated area shall not collect and permit to remain therein
stagnant water; or
      (2)   The surface of such area which is not permanently submerged is
graded or backfilled as necessary so as to reduce the peaks and depressions
thereof, so as to produce a gently running surface that will minimize erosion
due to rainfall and which will be in substantial conformity to the adjoining
land area.
   (B)   Vegetation. Vegetation shall be restored by appropriate seeds of
grasses or planting of shrubs or trees in all parts of said mining area where
such area is not to be submerged under water as herein above provided.
   (C)   Banks of excavations not backfilled. The banks of all excavations not
backfilled shall be sloped to the waterline at a slope not less than three feet
horizontal to one foot vertical and said bank shall be seeded.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.330 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In addition to the foregoing, the Commission may impose such other
conditions, requirements or limitations concerning the nature, extent of the
use and operation of such mines, quarries or gravel pits as the Commission may
deem necessary for the protection of adjacent properties and the public
interest.
   (B)   The said conditions and the amount of the performance bond shall be
determined by the Commission prior to issuance of the permit.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.331 COMPLIANCE.
   Compliance with all applicable laws of the state.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.332 GAS AND OIL WELLS.
   (A)   In any and all districts of the village, a well may be drilled for the
exploration for or production of oil, natural gas or other petroleum products
only after or when there is compliance with provisions, terms and conditions as
set by the Village Planning Commission and Village Council.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall consider the following:
      (1)   Compliance with all applicable laws of the state; and
      (2)   No tanks or reservoirs erected or intended for the storage of
petroleum products shall be located within 50 feet of any public right-of-way
nor within 100 feet of a residential lot line:
         (a)   Location of the property in question;
         (b)   Its zoned use for industrial, commercial or residential; and
         (c)   Its proximity to:
            1.   Dwellings;
            2.   Commercial buildings;
            3.   Industrial buildings;
            4.   Highways;
            5.   Railroads;
            6.   Streams;
            7.   Airports;
            8.   Sewer and water control systems; and
            9.   Other potentially hazardous structures or uses of surrounding
land.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall consider whether the land upon which the
well is to be located is then in use for a permissible use under this chapter
or whether the owner of the land has immediate plans for construction on the
premises within one year from the date the application to drill is made.
   (D)   The Planning Commission shall also examine any other factors that
might be considered detrimental to the public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979; Ord. 7-82, passed 2-16-1982)
SWIMMING POOLS
§ 153.345 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Private swimming pools. A private swimming pool, but not including
farm ponds, as regulated herein, shall be any pool, lake or open tank not
located within a completely enclosed building, and containing or normally
capable of containing water to a depth at any point greater than one and one-
half feet. No such swimming pool exclusive of portable swimming pools with a
diameter less than 12 feet or with an area of less than 100 square feet, shall
be allowed in any R-District except as an accessory use and unless it complies
with the following conditions and requirements.
      (1)   The pool is intended and is to be used solely for the enjoyment of
the occupants of the principle building of the property on which it is located
and their guests.
      (2)   The pool may be located anywhere on the premises except in required
front yards, provided it shall not be located closer than 15 feet to any
property line on which located.
      (3)   The swimming pool, or the entire property on which it is located,
shall be so walled or fenced as to prevent uncontrolled access by children from
the street or from adjacent properties.
   (B)   Community or club swimming pools.
      (1)   A community or club swimming pool shall be any pool constructed by
an association of property owners, or by a private club for use and employment
by members and their families.
      (2)   Such swimming pools shall comply with the following.
         (a)   The pool is intended solely for the enjoyment of the members and
families and guests of members of the association or club under whose ownership
or jurisdiction the pool is operated.
         (b)   The pool and accessory structures thereto, including the areas
used by the bathers, shall not be closer than 100 feet to any property line of
the property on which located.
         (c)   The swimming pool and all of the area used by the bathers shall
be so walled or fenced as to prevent uncontrolled access by children from the
street or adjacent properties. The said fence or wall shall not be less than
six feet in height and maintained in good condition. The area surrounding the
enclosure, except for the parking spaces, shall be suitably landscaped with
grass, hardy shrubs and trees and maintained in good condition.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
MOTELS AND MOTOR HOTELS
§ 153.360 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The following requirements shall be complied with.
   (A)   Area and yard requirements. Motels and motor hotels shall comply with
all area and yard requirements prescribed for such uses in the district in
which located.
   (B)   Parking. All areas used for automobile access and parking shall comply
with the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Entrance. No vehicular entrance to or exit from any motel or motel
hotel, wherever such may be located, shall be within 200 feet along streets
from any school, public playground, church, hospital, library or institution
for dependents or for children, except where such property is in another block
or another street which the premises in question do not abut.
   (D)   Landscaping; unused areas. All areas not used for access, parking
circulation, buildings and service shall be completely and permanently
landscaped and the entire site maintained in good condition. A landscaped strip
of land, not less than ten feet in width, shall be established and maintained
along its exterior boundaries when adjoining and R-District.
   (E)   Enclosure. Motels and motor hotels shall be enclosed on the sides and
in the rear by appropriate privacy fences, not less than six feet high, or by a
combination of landscaped screens and other suitable fences acceptable to the
Commission.
   (F)   Enlargement; permit. Any enlargement or extension to any existing
motel or motor hotel shall require application for a zoning certificate, as if
it were a new establishment.
   (G)   Enlargement; existing facilities to comply. No enlargements or
extensions to any motel or motor hotel shall be permitted unless the existing
facility is made to conform substantially with all the requirements for new
construction for such an establishment.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS
§ 153.375 LOT OF RECORD.
   When a lot which is an official lot of record at the time of adoption of
this chapter does not comply with the area, yard or other requirements of this
chapter, such lot may be used as a building site; provided, however, that the
yard and other requirements of the district are complied with as closely as
possible in the opinion of the Board of Zoning and Building Appeals.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.376 EXCEPTION TO YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Allowable projections of residential structure into yards.
      (1)   Any structure may project into the required front yard if existing
structures on both adjacent lots in the same district have less than the
required minimum front yard; provided, however, that such projection shall
extend no closer to the street than either of the adjacent structures.
      (2)   Architectural features of residential buildings, such as window
sills, cornices, roof overhangs, may project into the requirements provided
such projection is not more than four feet and does not reach closer than four
feet to any lot line.
   (B)   Allowable projections of business structures over sidewalk. Signs,
awnings, canopies, marquees
are permitted to overhang the sidewalk in the commercial districts only,
providing that overhanging signs
are a minimum of eight feet above the sidewalk at any point and that all other
structures are a minimum of six feet, eight inches above the sidewalk at any
point.
   (C)   Allowable projection of accessory building into rear yard. One-story
accessory buildings may project into only rear yards abutting in an alley
providing such projection extends not closer than five feet to the rear lot
line.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.377 EXCEPTION TO HEIGHT LIMITS.
   The height limitations of this chapter shall not apply to church spires,
belfries, cupolas and domes not intended for human occupancy; monuments, water
towers, transmission towers, chimneys, smoke stacks, masts and aerials.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
YARD PROJECTIONS IN R DISTRICTS
§ 153.390 PROJECTIONS OF ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES.
   Certain architectural features may project into required yards as follows:
   (A)   Front and side yards . Into any required front yard, or required side
yard adjoining a side street lot line;
   (B)   Architectural features. Cornices, canopies, eaves or other
architectural features, may project a distance not exceeding two feet, six
inches;
   (C)   Fire escapes. Fire escapes may project a distance not exceeding four
feet, six inches;
   (D)   Stair and landing. An uncovered stair and necessary landings may
project a distance not to exceed six feet, provided such stair and landing
shall not extend above the entrance floor of the building except for a railing
not exceeding three feet in height;
   (E)   Bay windows, balconies, uncovered porches and chimneys. Bay windows,
balconies, uncovered porches and chimneys may project a distance not exceeding
three feet; provided that such features do not occupy, in the aggregate, more
than one-third of the length of the building wall on which they are located;
   (F)   Interior side yards. Subject to the limitations in division (A) above,
the above-named features may project into any required side yard adjoining an
interior side lot line, a distance not to exceed one-fifth of the required
least width of such side yard, but not exceeding three feet in any case; and
   (G)   Rear yards. Subject to the limitation in division (F) above, the
features named therein may project into any required rear yards the same
distance they are permitted to project into a front yard.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.391 FENCES, WALLS AND HEDGES.
   May be located in required yards as follows:
   (A)   Under four feet. If not exceeding at any point four feet in height
above the elevation of the surface of the ground at such point, they may be
located in any yard;
   (B)   Under six feet. If not exceeding at any point six feet in height above
the elevation of the surface
of the ground at such point, they may be located in any required rear yard or
side yard, provided that on a corner lot, abutting in the rear the side lot
line of another lot in an R-District, no such fence, wall or hedge within 25
feet of the common lot line shall be closer to the side street lot line than
the depth of the front yard required on such other lot fronting the side
street; and
   (C)   Barbed-wire fences. Barbed-wire fences or fences or walls having or
metal prongs or spikes or cutting points or of any kind whatsoever shall be
prohibited.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.392 TYPE OF CONSTRUCTION.
   All fences permitted under this subchapter shall be constructed so that the
finished fence is presented to the abutting owners and the supports for the
fence are on the installer’s side of the fence. If the fence is finished by the
application of varnish, paint, lacquer and the like, it shall be finished the
same on both sides.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979; Ord. 26-82, passed 11-2-1982)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.405 ENFORCEMENT BY ZONING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   There is hereby established the office of Zoning Inspector. It shall
be the duty of the Zoning Inspector to enforce this chapter in accordance with
the administrative provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   All departments, officials and public employees of the village vested
with the duty or authority to issue permits and licenses shall conform with the
provisions of this chapter and shall issue no permit or license for any use,
building or purpose in conflict with the provisions of this chapter. Any permit
or license in conflict with the provisions of this chapter shall be null and
void.
   (C)   An appeal from the decision of the Zoning Inspector may be made to the
Board of Zoning and Building Appeals as provided in §§
153.425 through
153.434.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.406 ZONING CERTIFICATES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an owner to use or permit the use of any
structure, building or land or part thereof, hereafter created, erected,
changed, converted or enlarged, wholly or partly, until a zoning certificate
shall have been issued by the Zoning Inspector. It shall be the duty of the
Zoning Inspector to issue a certificate, provided he or she is satisfied that
the structure, building or premises and the proposed use thereof conforms with
all the requirements of this chapter. No permit for excavation, construction or
reconstruction shall be issued by the Zoning Inspector unless the plans,
specifications and the intended use conform to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Upon written request from the owner or tenant, the Zoning Inspector
shall issue a zoning certificate for any building or premises existing at the
time of enactment of this chapter certifying after inspection the extent and
kind of use made of the building or premises and whether such use conforms to
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.407 CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH CERTIFICATES ARE REQUIRED.
   A zoning certificate shall be required for any of the following except as
herein provided:
   (A)   Construction or structural alteration of any building, including
accessory building; installation of a swimming pool, fence, driveway, porch/
deck, permanent outdoor structure or signage;
   (B)   Change in use of an existing building or accessory building to a use
of different classification;
   (C)   Occupancy and use of vacant land;
   (D)   Change in the use of land to a use of a different classification; or
   (E)   Any change in the use of a nonconforming use.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.408 APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE OF ZONING CERTIFICATE.
   The following shall apply in the application and issuance of zoning
certificates.
   (A)   Written application shall be made for a zoning certificate for the
construction of a new building or the alteration of an existing building. Said
certificate shall be issued within 30 days after a written request for the same
has been made to the Zoning Inspector or his or her agent, provided such
construction or alteration is in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Written application for a zoning certificate for the use of vacant
land or for a change in the use of land or of a building or for a change in a
nonconforming use, as herein provided, shall be made to the Zoning Inspector.
If the proposed use is in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, the
certificate therefor shall be issued within 30 days after the application for
same has been made.
   (C)   Failure to notify the applicant in case of such refusal within the
said 30 days shall entitle the applicant to a zoning certificate unless the
applicant consents to an extension of time.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.409 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Each plan shall show:
      (1)   The street providing access to the lot and the exact location of
the lot in relation to the nearest cross street;
      (2)   The name of the concerned lot plan, if any, and the lot numbers of
the concerned and abutting properties;
      (3)   The actual dimensions of the lot, the yard and other open space
dimensions thereof, and the location and size of any existing structure
thereon;
      (4)   The location and size of the proposed structure and/or the proposed
enlargement of the existing structure; and
      (5)   Any other information which in the judgment of the Zoning Inspector
may be necessary to provide for the enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   Each plan shall bear statements declaring:
      (1)   No part of the land involved in the application has ben previously
used to provide required yard space or lot area for another structure; and
      (2)   Which abutting land was formerly that of the owner of the land
involved in the application
and, if any, the approximate date of title transfer.
   (C)   Where complete and accurate information is not readily available from
existing records, the Zoning Inspector may require the applicant to furnish a
survey of the lot by a registered surveyor.
   (D)   Each property owner or authorized agent shall be required to attest to
the correctness of the
statements and data furnished with the application.
   (E)   A file of such applications and plans shall be kept in the office of
the Zoning Inspector.
   (F)   The Zoning Inspector shall not issue a zoning certificate for any
application requiring site review by the Zoning Commission such as:
      (1)   Mobile home parks (§§
153.240 through
153.250);
      (2)   Planned unit developments (§§
153.265 through
153.276);
      (3)   Extraction of minerals (§§
153.325 through
153.332); and
      (4)   Motels and motor hotels (§
153.360).
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.410 FEES.
   For each application for a zoning certificate a fee of $10 shall be paid at
the time of application. (Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
BOARD OF ZONING AND BUILDING APPEALS
§ 153.425 APPOINTMENT.
   There is hereby established a Board of Zoning and Building Appeals. The
Board shall consist of three electors of the village who hold no other public
office or public employment, selected by the Village Council, for terms of
three years for overlapping terms. They shall serve without compensation.
Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner for the unexpired terms. An
unexpired term shall count as a full term if it is two years or longer. Service
of Board members shall terminate one each January unless, in the discretion of
the Mayor, pending hearings require the temporary continuation of the Board
member whose term is to expire, but only until that business shall be
completed. All appointments of Board members are by the Mayor with the
confirmation of Council. Removal of members for cause upon written charges and
after public hearings shall be in the jurisdiction of Village Council.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.426 PROCEDURE.
   The Board shall adopt its own rules and elect its officers annually, a
Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and Secretary from its membership. The
Chairperson, or in his or her absence the Vice-Chairperson, may administer
oaths and the Board may compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the
Board shall be open to the public. The Secretary shall keep minutes of the
proceedings, indicating the vote of each member on each question, or if absent
or failing to vote, so note. Also, the Secretary shall keep records of the
Board’s examinations and other official actions, all of which are to be
immediately filed in the office of the village and become public record.
Finally, the Secretary shall conduct all official correspondence and supervise
the clerical work of the Board. The duties of the Secretary may be cared for by
the Fiscal Officer. Normally, notices of hearing and decisions of the Board
shall be communicated directly to property owners affected and through
newspapers and bulletin boards to the people of the village.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.427 QUORUM.
   There shall be a first, second and third alternate named by the Mayor and
also confirmed by Council. Once the Chairperson has decided on a date
acceptable to the applicant and with reasonable time for notice to adjacent
property owners and tenants, as well as the general public, the Fiscal Officer
shall call the Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and the Secretary about their
attendance. Should one or more of them be unable to attend, an alternate shall
be contacted to constitute a full Board of three. Normally, two of the three
must approve Board decisions. Should only two Board members or alternates
actually attend, the applicant has the option of re-scheduling the hearing or
seeking a unanimous decision from the two present. The applicant must agree to
the two-member Board in advance of the hearing and thereby be bound by their
decision for or against his or her cause and if they fail to be unanimous shall
be denied his or her permit.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.428 ASSISTANCE.
   The Chairperson of the Board may call upon the employees of the village for
assistance in the performance of the duties of the Board.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.429 APPEALS, HEARINGS AND STAY OF PROCEEDINGS.
   The following shall apply for applications, appeals and hearings.
   (A)   Applications; when and by whom taken. The Board shall have power to
hear and decide applications for exceptions to and variances in, the
application of resolutions, ordinances, regulations and orders of
administrative officials or agencies governing zoning and building in the
village, as may be required to afford justice and avoid unreasonable hardship,
subject to such reasonable standards and procedures as shall be prescribed by
ordinance.
   (B)   Appeals; when and by whom taken. An appeal to the Board may be taken
by any person aggrieved or by any officer, department, board or bureau of the
village affected by any decision of the Village Planning Commission or Zoning
Inspector. Such appeal shall be taken within 20 days after the decision, by
filing with the Board a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The
Village Planning Commission or Zoning Inspector shall forthwith transmit to the
Board all the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed
from was taken.
   (C)   Contents of notice of appeal or application. No notice of appeal or
application may be filed with the Board which does not contain drawings and
written descriptions of the project sufficient to inform the Board and the
adjacent property owners and tenants, as well as the people of the village, of
the total scope of the project, along with the names and addresses of the
property owners and tenants within 200 feet of the property in question. In
communicating to neighbors and to the newspapers, care shall be taken by the
Board Chairperson that the applicant’s project is fairly described to the
mutual satisfaction of applicant and Board before a hearing date shall be
selected.
   (D)   Hearings. The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the public hearing
of the application or appeal and shall give notice by one publication in a news
media of general circulation in the village at least ten days before the date
of such hearing and, further, shall give written notice of said hearing to the
parties in interest including all property owners within 200 feet of the
property in question. Each application or appeal shall be accompanied by a
check, payable to the village, or a cash payment, sufficient in the amount to
cover the cost of publishing and/or posting and mailing the notices of the
hearing or hearings, but in no event shall it be less than $50. At the hearing,
any party may appear in person or be represented by an agent or attorney.
Normally, the applicant or appellant shall present his or her position first at
the hearing. Others who chose to speak shall identify themselves and their
support or opposition in advance, so that equal time can be afforded both
views.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979; Ord. 7-80, passed 4-1-1980)
§ 153.430 APPEAL FROM DECISIONS OF THE BOARD.
   Any person or persons, jointly or severally aggrieved by any decision of the
Board of Appeals, or any officer, department, board or bureau of the village
may present to the Court of Common Pleas of the county in which the property is
located a petition duly verified, setting forth that such decision is illegal,
in whole or in part, specifying the grounds for the illegality. Such petition
shall be presented to the court within 30 days after the filing of the decision
in the office of the Board of Appeals. Any such case shall be heard and
determined by the Court without a jury.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.431 DECISIONS OF THE BOARD.
   (A)   The Board shall decide all appeals within 30 days after the date of
notice of the required hearing thereon.
   (B)   (1)   A signed copy of the Board’s decision shall be transmitted to
the applicant or appellant, and to the Building or Zoning Inspector.
      (2)   Such decision shall be binding upon the Inspector and observed by
him or her, and he or she shall incorporate the terms and conditions of the
same in the permit to the applicant or appellant whenever a permit is
authorized by the Board.
   (C)   A decision of the Board shall not become final until the expiration of
five days from the date such decision is made, unless the Board shall find the
immediate taking effect of such decision is necessary for the preservation of
property or personal rights and shall so certify on the record.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.432 STAY OF PROCEEDINGS.
   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed
from unless the Mayor certifies to the Board after notice of appeal shall have
been filed with him or her, that by reason of acts stated in the certificate, a
stay would, in his or her opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.433 POWERS OF THE BOARD OF ZONING AND BUILDING APPEALS.
   The Board of Zoning and Building Appeals shall have jurisdiction of the
following.
   (A)   Conditional uses, special exceptions and interpretation of zoning map.
The Board shall have the power to hear and decide, in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, applications filed as hereinbefore provided, for
conditional uses, special exceptions or for interpretation of the zoning map or
for decisions upon other special questions upon which the Board is authorized
to pass by this chapter. In considering an application for a conditional use, a
special exception or interpretation of the zoning map, the Board shall give due
regard to the nature and condition of all adjacent uses and structures; and in
authorizing a conditional use or special exception, the Board may impose such
requirements and conditions with respect to location, construction, maintenance
and operation in addition to those expressly stipulated in this chapter for the
particular conditional use or special exception as the Board may deem necessary
for the protection of adjacent properties and the public interest.
   (B)   Nonconforming uses; substitutions. If no structural alterations are
made, any nonconforming use of a structure or structures and premises, may as a
conditional use be changed to another nonconforming use provided that the Board
of Zoning and Building Appeals shall find that the proposed use is equally
appropriate or more appropriate to the district than the existing nonconforming
use. In permitting such change, the Board of Zoning and Building Appeals may
require appropriate conditions and safeguards in accordance with other
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Temporary structures and uses. The Board may authorize the temporary
use of a structure or premises in any district for a purpose or use that does
not conform to the regulations prescribed elsewhere in this chapter for the
district in which it is located, provided that such use be of a temporary
nature and does not involve the erection of a substantial structure. A zoning
certificate for such use shall be granted in the form of a temporary and
revocable permit, for not more than a 12-month period subject to such
conditions as will safeguard the public health, safety, convenience and general
welfare.
   (D)   Interpretation of zoning ordinance and map. Where the street or lot
layout actually on the ground or as recorded differs from the street and lot
lines as shown on the zoning map, the Board, after notice to the owners of the
property and after public hearing shall interpret the map in such a way as to
carry out the intent and purpose of this chapter. In case of any question as to
the location of any boundary line between zoning districts or where there is
uncertainty as to the meaning and intent of a textual provision of the chapter,
a request for interpretation of the zoning map or the textual provision in
question may be made to the Board and a determination shall be made by said
Board.
   (E)   Presumptions. The presumption is that any property owner should be
permitted the fullest enjoyment of his or her property and to make any
improvements thereon which do not additionally adversely affect neighbors or
the neighborhood, or the public interest.
   (F)   Changes in districting.
      (1)   Such presumption does not extend to changes in the property which
appear to be, or to resemble changes to a different class or district (i.e., R-
I to R-II, C-I to C-II and the like) for that property alone. This is
particularly to be avoided in cases where this is found to be the first such
property in the neighborhood to seek a shift in classification or to request
the first major change in the character of the neighborhood.
      (2)   No grant of a variance shall be authorized unless the Board
specifically finds that the condition or situation of the specific piece of
property or the intended use of said property for which the variance is sought
is not of so general or recurrent a nature as to make reasonably practicable
the formulation of a general regulation for such conditions or situation.
      (3)   In such circumstances, the Board may request the views of the
Planning Commission, Zoning Inspector or of Village Council, expressed in
whatever way they may choose, and may read these views as part of the hearing
process.
   (G)   Central village plat. In variance proceedings where substantially the
same structure will result from a tearing down and sensible rebuilding, with
some modest enlargement which technically violates the strict wording of the
village regulations, the Board would do well to keep in mind the age of the lot
plan of the central part of the village and the fact that most residents are
now in technical violation if they were to seek to rebuild their present
dwellings on the same foundation dimensions and lot lines.
   (H)   Unusual conditions. The Board shall have the power to authorize upon
appeal in specific cases, filed as hereinbefore provided, such variances from
the terms, provisions or requirements of this chapter as will not be contrary
to the public interest; provided, however, cases where, owing to special and
unusual conditions pertaining to a specific piece of property the literal
enforcement of the provisions or requirements of this chapter would result in
practical difficulty or undue hardship, they act so that the spirit of the
chapter shall be upheld, public safety and welfare secured and substantial
justice done.
   (I)   Exceptional circumstances. Whereby reason of the exceptional
narrowness, shallowness or unusual shape of a specific piece of property on the
effective date of this chapter or by reason of exceptional topographic
conditions or other extraordinary situation or condition of such piece of
property or of the use or development of property immediately adjoining the
piece of property in question, the literal enforcement of the requirements of
this chapter would involve practical difficulty or would cause unnecessary
hardship, unnecessary to carry out the spirit and purpose of this chapter, the
Board shall have the power to authorize a variance from the terms of this
chapter so as to relieve such hardship. In authorizing a variance, the Board
may attach thereto such conditions regarding the location, character and other
features of the proposed structure or use as it may deem necessary in the
interest of the furtherance of the purposes of the chapter and in the public
interest. In authorizing a variance, with attached conditions, the Board shall
require such evidence and guarantee or bond as it may deem to be necessary to
enforce compliance with the conditions attached.
   (J)   Hardships. Hardship cases for variance should be considered from all
sides, that which the owner will suffer (economic, aesthetic, inconvenience,
lack of full enjoyment, inhibited modernization) and that which adjoining
neighbors will receive (change in property value, encroachment of light or air
space, change in general character of the neighborhood, aesthetic concerns).
   (K)   Performance violations. If the Zoning Inspector has grounds to believe
that permits which may be issued may result in violations of performance
standards outlined in §§
153.290 and
153.291, or in any other subchapters of the chapter, he or she is entitled to
seek the advice of the Board before granting any permit. The Board, by majority
vote of its members or alternates in their place, is empowered to hear
witnesses concerning the proposal which is questioned and to seek expert advice
at the expense of the proponent, as agreed in advance, and paid for by him or
her, or such permit shall not be issued, until the Board is satisfied no danger
to the public exists.
   (L)   Continued supervision. If such permit is issued, continued supervision
is expected by the village officials, and violations of its terms will result
in action recommended by the Board and enacted by the Mayor and Council to
enjoin further operations as a threat to life, property, health, safety and
public environmental welfare. In accepting permits, the applicants expressly
waive any defenses against such injunctions for non-performance brought in the
public interest; subject only to an appeal to Common Pleas Court while their
operation is enjoined by such previously agreed upon procedure.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.434 FEES.
   Fees shall be charged in accordance with orders and directions of the
Village Council.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
DISTRICT CHANGES AND REGULATION AMENDMENTS
§ 153.445 COUNCIL MAY AMEND CHAPTER.
   Whenever, because of public necessity, convenience, general welfare or when
good zoning practices require, the Village Council may by ordinance, after
recommendation thereon by the Village Planning Commission and subject to the
procedure provided in this subchapter, amend, supplement or change the
regulations, district boundaries or classifications of property now or
hereafter established by this chapter or amendments thereof. It shall be the
duty of the Planning Commission to submit its recommendations regarding all
applications or proposals for amendments or supplements to the Village Council.
An amendment, supplement, reclassification or change may be initiated by the
Commission on its own motion or by a verified application of one or more of the
owners or lessees of property within the area proposed to be changed or
affected by this chapter.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.446 PROCEDURE FOR CHANGE.
   (A)   Applications for any change of district boundaries or classification
of property as shown on the zoning map and for regulation amendments shall be
submitted to the Planning Commission at its public office, on appropriate forms
and all shall be accompanied by such data and information as may be prescribed
for that purpose by the Commission so as to assure the fullest practicable
presentation of facts for the permanent record.
   (B)   Such data shall include:
      (1)   The name and street address of the petitioner;
      (2)   The lot number of any real estate owned by the petitioner adjacent
or within the areas proposed to be changed;
      (3)   A list of names of the owners of property within, contiguous to and
directly across the street from the parcel sought to be affected, including the
addresses of such owners or if unknown a statement of that fact and the address
of the property;
      (4)   An accurate legal description of the district or area proposed to
be altered;
      (5)   An accurate map, diagram or sketch of the district or area to be so
altered and the lands contiguous thereto;
      (6)   Facts indicating that the proposed change requested will not be
detrimental to the public health, safety or welfare and is in the public
interest; and
      (7)   The interest, if any, of the petitioner in the parcel, the subject
of the petition.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.447 COMMISSION HEARING, NOTICE.
   Before submitting its recommendations, an application or its own motion to
the Village Council, the Planning Commission shall hold at least one public
hearing thereon, notice of which shall be given by one publication in a news
media of general circulation in the village at least ten days before the date
of such hearing and, further, shall give written notice of said hearing to the
parties in interest including all property owners within 200 feet of the
property in question within ten days before the date of such hearing. Within 30
days after the public hearing, the Planning Commission shall recommend to
Council that the amendment be granted as requested or it may recommend a
modification of its amendment requested, or it may recommend that its amendment
not be granted.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979; Ord. 5-91, passed 5-7-1991)
§ 153.448 COUNCIL HEARING.
   After receiving from the Commission the certification of said recommendation
on the proposed amendment or supplement, and before adoption of such amendment,
the Council shall hold a public hearing thereon at least 30 days’ notice of the
time and place of which shall be given by publication in a news media of
general circulation in the village. If the proposed ordinance amendment intends
to rezone or redistrict ten or less parcels of land as listed in the tax
duplicate, written notice of the hearing shall be mailed by the Fiscal Officer
by first class mail, at least 20 days before the date of the public hearing to
the owners of property across the street from such parcel or parcels, to the
addresses of such owners appearing on the County Auditor’s current tax list.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.449 COUNCIL; FINAL ACTION.
   Following such hearing and after reviewing the recommendations of the
Commission thereon, the Council shall consider such recommendations and vote on
the passage of the proposed amendment to the text of the ordinance or the
zoning map. The Council may overrule the recommendations of the Commission by
four-sixths vote of the full membership of the Council.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.450 MAP CHANGE PENDING; ZONING CERTIFICATE BUILDING PERMIT.
   Whenever the Council has taken under advisement a change or amendment of the
zoning map from a less restricted district to a more restricted district
classification, as evidenced by resolution of record, no zoning certificate or
building permit shall be issued within 60 days from the date of such resolution
which would authorize the construction of a building or the establishment of a
use which would become nonconforming under the contemplated redistricting plan.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
§ 153.451 FEES.
   Each application for a zoning amendment except those initiated by the
Commission shall be accompanied by a check deposited with the Clerk of the
Commission, a sum not less than $50 as a fee to cover investigations, notices
by publication and other expenses as may be indicated to such determination of
the matter. Such sums so deposited shall be transferred by the Clerk of the
Commission to the Fiscal Officer of the village and credited to the General
Fund thereof.
(Ord. 16-79, passed 10- -1979)
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT
§ 153.465 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The following regulations shall apply to adult entertainment business
as herein defined.
   (B)   The purpose of this subchapter is to promote the public health, safety
and welfare through the regulation of adult entertainment businesses. It is the
intent of these sections to regulate entertainment businesses, as defined
herein, in such a manner as to prevent the erosion of the character of the
surrounding neighborhoods and to prohibit the establishment of such businesses
within close proximity to existing churches, amusement arcades, parks and
playgrounds within the village.
(Ord. 16-97, passed 7-14-1997)
§ 153.466 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOK STORE. An establishment which utilizes 15% or more of its retail
selling area for the purpose of retail sale or rental; or for the purpose of
display by coin or slug-operated, or electronically, electrically or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors or other
image-producing devices, or both; and, books, magazines, other periodicals,
films, tapes and cassettes which are distinguished by their emphasis on adult
materials as defined in this section.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS. An adult book store, adult motion picture
theater, adult drive-in motion picture theater, or an adult only entertainment
establishment as further defined in this section.
   ADULT MATERIAL. Any book, magazine, newspaper, pamphlet, poster, print,
picture, slide, transparency, figure, image, description, motion picture film,
phonographic record or tape, other tangible thing, or any service, capable of
arousing interest through sight, sound or touch: and
      (1)   Which material is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
matter displaying, describing, or representing sexual activity, masturbation,
sexual excitement, nudity, bestiality or human bodily functions of elimination;
or
      (2)   Which service is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
sexual activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, nudity, bestiality or human
bodily functions of elimination.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE DRIVE-IN THEATER. An open air drive-in theater which is
regularly used or utilizes 15% or more of its total viewing time, for
presenting material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting, describing or related to adult material as defined in this section.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed motion picture theater which is
regularly used or utilizes 15% or more of its total viewing time, for
presenting material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting, describing or related to adult material as defined in this section.
   ADULT ONLY ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment where the patron
directly or indirectly is charged a fee where the establishment features
entertainment or services which constitute adult material as defined in this
section, or which features exhibitions, dance routines or gyrational
choreography of persons totally nude, topless, bottomless or strippers, male or
female impersonators or similar entertainment or services which constitute
adult material.
   BOTTOMLESS. Less than full opaque covering of male or female genitals, pubic
area or buttocks.
   NUDE or NUDITY. The showing, representation or depiction of human male or
female genitals pubic area, or buttocks with less than full, opaque covering of
any portion thereof or female breasts) with less than a full, opaque covering
of any portion thereof below the top of the nipple, or of covered male genitals
in a discernible turgid state.
   SEXUAL ACTIVITY. A sexual conduct or sexual contact, or both.
   SEXUAL CONTACT. Any touching of an erogenous zone of another, including
without limitation the thigh, genitals, buttock, pubic region, or, if the
person is a female, a breast, for the purpose of sexually arousing or
gratifying either person.
   SEXUAL EXCITEMENT. The condition of the human male or female genitals, when
in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   TOPLESS. The showing of a female breast with less than full opaque covering
of any portion thereof below the top of the nipple;
(Ord. 16-97, passed 7-14-1997)
§ 153.467 CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No building shall be erected, constructed or developed, and no
buildings or premises shall be reconstructed, remodeled, arranged for use or
used for any adult entertainment business unless authorized by the issuance of
a conditional use permit in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   In addition to said provisions, an adult entertainment business shall
comply with the following conditional use criteria:
      (1)   Adult entertainment business shall comply with the district
regulations applicable to all properties in any district in which they are
located;
      (2)   No adult entertainment business shall be permitted in a location
which is within 5,000 feet of another adult entertainment business;
      (3)   No adult entertainment business shall be permitted in a location
which is within 5,000 feet of any church, any public or private school, any
park, any playground, or any social service facility or neighborhood center;
      (4)   No adult entertainment business shall be permitted in a location
which is within 5,000 feet of any residence or boundary of any residential
district; and
      (5)   No adult entertainment business shall be permitted in a location
which is within 5,000 feet of any boundary of any residential district in a
local unit of government abutting the village.
(Ord. 16-97, passed 7-14-1997) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.468 ZONING OF ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS.
   Adult entertainment businesses shall be conditionally permitted in
accordance with the following schedule:
Conditionally Permitted Use Districts Wherein Permitted
Conditionally Permitted Use             Districts Wherein Permitted
                                        C-II Commercial District
Adult book store                        I-I Light Industrial District
                                        I-II General Industrial District
                                        C-II Commercial District
Adult motion picture drive-in theater   I-I Light Industrial District
                                        I-II General Industrial District
                                        C-II Commercial District
Adult motion picture theater            I-I Light Industrial District
                                        I-II General Industrial District
                                        C-II Commercial District
Adults only entertainment establishment I-I Light Industrial District
                                        I-II General Industrial District
 
(Ord. 16-97, passed 7-14-1997)
BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 153.480 PERMITTED AS SPECIAL USE.
   Bed and breakfast establishments shall be permitted as a special use within
the village pursuant to the requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 10-2013, passed 5-28-2013)
§ 153.481 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. The resident owner of the property under consideration for a
permit under this subchapter, or an authorized agent thereof.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT. A single-family residence that is occupied
by the resident owner thereof, which may provide overnight lodging to paying
nonresident guests, and in which such nonresident guests may be served
breakfast only, and which has been granted a permit under this subchapter as
complying with all other applicable state and local regulations.
   BUSINESS DAY. Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m. exclusive of
legal holidays.
   DEDICATED BATHROOM. A room consisting of a water closet, sink and bathtub or
shower facility that is identified as being available for use by the
nonresident guests.
   DOCUMENT OF ACCEPTANCE. A document setting forth the applicant’s acceptance
of the terms of the special bed and breakfast use permit.
   HOUSEHOLD BATHROOM. A room consisting of a water closet, sink and bathtub or
shower facility that is used or intended to be used by the resident owners,
resident family members or resident guests, residing in the dwelling or the
invited guests thereof. The HOUSEHOLD BATHROOM shall be separate from the
dedicated bathroom and shall not a part of a nonresident guest room.
   HOUSEHOLD KITCHEN. A room designed or intended to be used by the resident
owner or the immediate family thereof residing on the premises for the
preparation of meals and that includes cooking, refrigeration, and sink
facilities.
   INFANT. A very young human being, ranging in age between birth and two years
of age.
   INVITED GUEST. A friend, acquaintance, family member or other individual
invited to the property by the resident owner, a resident family member or
resident guest residing on the property without compensation.
   NONRESIDENT GUEST. An individual who compensates the resident owner to stay
in a nonresident guest room for a period not exceeding 30 days in any 12-month
period.
   NONRESIDENT GUEST ROOM. A bedroom or suite, including a dedicated bathroom
but not including a kitchen or kitchenette, that is used, by or intended to be
used by a nonresident guest for compensation.
   ORIGINAL APPLICATION. An initial application, meeting the requirements of
this subchapter, submitted by a resident owner to obtain a special bed and
breakfast use permit to operate a bed and breakfast establishment.
   RENEWAL APPLICATION. An application submitted per the procedure of this
subchapter by a resident owner to operate a bed and breakfast establishment for
an additional one-year period following the July 31 expiration of a valid
special bed and breakfast use permit to operate a bed and breakfast
establishment.
   RESIDENT FAMILY MEMBER. A member of the resident owners’ immediate family
who has established legal residency at the property.
   RESIDENT GUEST. An individual other than a member of the resident owners’
immediate family who has established legal residency at the property.
   RESIDENT OWNER. The owner or owners of the property who reside on the
premises.
   VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed by Village Council as the
Village Administrator of the Village of Bluffton or a duly appointed
representative thereof.
(Ord. 10-2013, passed 5-28-2013)
§ 153.482 PROCEDURE FOR OBTAINING A SPECIAL BED AND BREAKFAST USE PERMIT.
   (A)   Original application. Any resident owner of real property within the
village seeking a special bed and breakfast use permit to operate a bed and
breakfast establishment shall file an application addressing the submission
requirements and the approval criteria of this subchapter with the Village
Administrator in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter and pay the
special bed and breakfast use permit fee established herein.
   (B)   Village Administrator review. The Village Administrator or his or her
designee shall examine the property within 15 business days of receiving the
original application to determine if it is suitable for such use according to
the building, sanitation and fire laws and ordinances of the village and the
state. The Village Administrator shall also review the original application to
determine its completeness.
      (1)   If, in the sole reasonable opinion of the Village Administrator,
the property meets such laws and ordinances and the application is complete,
the application along with the Village Administrator’s report thereon shall be
forwarded to the Village Council for review at which time, the Village Council
shall set a date for a public hearing on the said application in accordance
with §
153.483.
      (2)   If, in the sole reasonable opinion of the Village Administrator,
the property fails to meet such laws and ordinances, and/or if the application
is not complete:
         (a)   The application shall be rejected and the Village Administrator
shall notify the applicant of the rejection and the reasons for rejection;
         (b)   Upon being notified of rejection, the applicant may:
            1.   Withdraw the application; or
            2.   a.   Modify the application so as to address the reasons for
rejection in the Village Administrator’s notice of rejection, demonstrate
compliance with the applicable provisions of the law, and correct and/or
provide any missing or incomplete information.
               b.   The modified application may be resubmitted to the Village
Administrator for reconsideration within 45 days of the date of the notice of
rejection issued by the Village Administrator. If the modified application is
submitted beyond this time period, it shall be considered null and void and the
procedure for submitting an original application will apply.
(Ord. 10-2013, passed 5-28-2013)
§ 153.483 VILLAGE COUNCIL REVIEW.
   (A)   Within 35 days of receiving the application after review by the
Village Administrator, Village Council shall conduct a public hearing on the
application and make a decision as soon thereafter as practicable.
   (B)   The Village Administrator, at the direction of Council, shall give 30
days’ notice of the time and place of the public hearing in a newspaper of
general circulation in the village, and shall notify by ordinary mail the
owners of property within the a 200-foot radius of the property as identified
in the application, of the pending application, the address of the proposed bed
and breakfast, and the time, date and location of the meeting at which the
Village Council will consider the application.
      (1)   Council shall consider the following in deciding whether to approve
an ordinance authorizing the special bed and breakfast use permit to operate a
bed and breakfast establishment:
         (a)   Whether the application for a bed and breakfast establishment
meets the requirements of this subchapter;
         (b)   The Village Administrator’s report and recommendations for
waiver or modification, if any;
         (c)   Evidence presented at the public hearing;
         (d)   Any evidence presented by the Mayor, members of the
administration and the public; and
         (e)   The impact on the public peace, health, safety, morals and
welfare of the surrounding neighborhood.
      (2)   Council may issue a special bed and breakfast use permit only if
the proposed bed and breakfast does not, by nature or in terms of the
requirements of this subchapter, have a detrimental impact on the community. In
making this determination, Council shall consider the following factors:
         (a)   Whether the proposed bed and breakfast establishment will
promote the purpose of this subchapter in enhancing the appeal of the community
by offering short stay housing options for friends and relatives of residents;
         (b)   Whether the proposed bed and breakfast establishment will be
well integrated into the surrounding neighborhood, maintain and preserve the
integrity of the residential property and neighborhood, and retain the
architectural characteristics of the residential structure;
         (c)   The location and number of other bed and breakfast
establishments in the village; and
         (d)   The impact on the public peace, health, safety, morals and
welfare of the surrounding neighborhood.
      (3)   No zoning certificate or building permit shall be issued until the
application, is approved and accepted by the applicant.
      (4)   If the original application is approved by Council, the Village
Administrator shall issue a special bed and breakfast use permit authorizing
the operation of the bed and breakfast establishment from the date that the
ordinance becomes effective.
      (5)   The special bed and breakfast use permit shall authorize only the
person or persons designated in the application to operate and maintain a bed
and breakfast establishment upon the real property set forth in the
application. Should the real property transfer by any means, including, but not
limited to, sale, gift, inheritance or foreclosure, this permit shall be deemed
void if not renewed by successors in interest to the property within 90 days of
the date that said property is transferred on the records of the Recorder of
Allen or Hancock Counties.
(Ord. 10-2013, passed 5-28-2013)
§ 153.484 SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS; ORIGINAL APPLICATION.
   An application requesting the approval of a special bed and breakfast use
permit for a bed and breakfast establishment shall minimally include the
following information:
   (A)   The name and contact information of the resident owner(s) of the
subject property;
   (B)   An area map showing all properties within 500 feet of the subject
property, including the addresses, Allen or Hancock County Auditor’s book, plat
and parcel numbers, the owners names and mailing addresses and the existing
uses of the properties;
   (C)   A dimensioned site plan of the property identifying the property
corners, the type, size and location of the existing improvements including,
but not limited to, buildings, paved sidewalks and parking areas, and any
proposed improvements, and the location of any proposed off-site parking areas;
   (D)   A detailed floor plan of the entire home, drawn to scale, showing the
uses, size and location of all rooms and detailing the nonresident guest rooms
and their associated dedicated bathrooms and any other areas that will be used
for, or available to, the nonresident guest;
   (E)   A detailed written description of any changes that will be made to the
interior or exterior of the property to accommodate the bed and breakfast
establishment;
   (F)   An operations plan detailing how the bed and breakfast establishment
will be run on a day-to-day basis, which resident family members or other
individuals will be involved in the operation thereof, and the other aspects of
the operation;
   (G)   A statement detailing the anticipated impact of the bed and breakfast
establishment on the surrounding neighborhood; and
   (H)   A dimensioned drawing indicating the size and location of any sign
that is proposed to be installed to identify the bed and breakfast
establishment.
(Ord. 10-2013, passed 5-28-2013)
§ 153.485 PROCEDURE FOR RENEWING PERMIT UPON TRANSFER OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   Renewal request.
      (1)   A new resident owner seeking renewal of an existing valid special
bed and breakfast use permit to operate a bed and breakfast establishment
issued to the prior owner of the real property shall file a renewal application
to the Village Administrator not more than 30 days from its expiration as set
forth above.
      (2)   All such renewal applications shall include the following
information:
         (a)   A statement and relevant information indicating that the
operation has been conducted in accordance with the terms, conditions and
provisions of the current permit; and
         (b)   A statement detailing any proposed changes from the original
application and the rationale for requesting such changes.
   (B)   Village Administrator review. The Village Administrator shall inspect
the property within ten days of receiving such renewal request to ensure that
the bed and breakfast establishment is in compliance with the provisions of the
original special bed and breakfast use permit, that the property has been
maintained in accordance with the applicable laws and ordinances of the
village.
   (C)   Village Council review. Within 35 days of receiving the renewal
request and report from the Village Administrator, Village Council shall
conduct a public hearing on the renewal request and make a decision as soon
thereafter as practicable.
      (1)   If after considering the renewal request and the Village
Administrator’s report and conducting a public hearing, Village Council finds
that there will be continuing compliance with the terms of the special bed and
breakfast use permit, Council may authorize the Village Administrator to renew
the special bed and breakfast use permit to the new owners.
      (2)   If Village Council finds that the bed and breakfast establishment
will not continuously comply with the terms of the existing permit, Village
Council shall rescind the permit and shall advise the Village Administrator to
issue a cease and desist order or seek other remedies under the law.
      (3)   If the permit is rescinded, the owners may make a new application
as set forth herein.
(Ord. 10-2013, passed 5-28-2013)
§ 153.486 REGULATIONS AND CRITERIA.
   A bed and breakfast enterprise shall only be approved if:
   (A)   The property is located on Main Street of the village;
   (B)   The residential appearance of the exterior of the building or premises
is not changed and there is no visible evidence from off the premises of the
proposed or existing bed and breakfast establishment except for the
installation of a sign in accordance with the laws of the village;
   (C)   No alterations are made to the premises that would prohibit the
immediate re-use of the same as a single-family residence;
   (D)   Sufficient parking is provided to accommodate the resident owners,
resident family members, resident guests and nonresident guests. Parking may
partially be provided on street if there are no more than two nonresident guest
rooms. If there are more than two nonresident guest rooms, on-site parking must
be provided as approved by Village Council;
   (E)   No more than five nonresident guest rooms are provided;
   (F)   A minimum of one dedicated bathroom is provided for the nonresident
guest rooms;
   (G)   A minimum of one household bathroom is provided in addition to the
dedicated bathroom(s);
   (H)   The property is maintained in accordance with the applicable
provisions of ordinances of the village;
   (I)   The operation of the bed and breakfast establishment does not
unreasonably increase pedestrian, vehicular traffic or parking in excess of the
pedestrian, vehicular traffic or parking normally present in the immediate
vicinity of the premises;
   (J)   The owner of the property lives on the premises;
   (K)   The operation only employs the resident owners, resident family
members, resident guests and up to one other individual not residing on the
premises;
   (L)   Stays for any individual nonresident guest are limited to 30 days in
any consecutive 12-month period;
   (M)   Meals are not provided to anyone other than the resident owners,
resident family members, resident guests and the friends and family members
thereof and to the nonresident guests;
   (N)   Nonresident guest meals are limited to breakfast only;
   (O)   Nonresident guests are not permitted to cook in the household kitchen;
   (P)   The establishment, maintenance or operation of the proposed use is not
detrimental to nor a danger to the public health, safety, morals, comfort or
general welfare;
   (Q)   The establishment, maintenance or operation of the proposed use is not
injurious to the use and enjoyment to other property in the immediate vicinity
for purposes already permitted and if it does not substantially diminish or
impair property values in the neighborhood; and
   (R)   No retail sales occur on the premises except that items may be sold by
the establishment to guests and that no sales be made to any non guest at any
time.
(Ord. 10-2013, passed 5-28-2013)
§ 153.487 PERMIT FEE.
   The permit fee for the original application and any renewal thereof shall be
$100.
(Ord. 10-2013, passed 5-28-2013)
§ 153.488 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH THE PERMIT/POWER TO RESCIND.
   In the event that the resident owner operating a bed and breakfast
establishment fails to operate the establishment in accordance with the
approved special bed and breakfast use permit or violates any provision of the
approved ordinance, the Village Administrator shall have the authority to:
   (A)   Order the resident owner or property owner to cease and desist the
operation of the bed and breakfast establishment; and/or
   (B)   Order corrective action to secure compliance with the approved special
bed and breakfast use permit or the requirements of the approved ordinance
within a time established by the Village Administrator provided however, no
such corrective action shall exceed 90 days from the date established by the
Village Administrator. Should corrective action not be completed within the
time established by the Village Administrator shall order the resident owner to
cease and desist.
(Ord. 10-2013, passed 5-28-2013) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation; penalty. It shall be unlawful to locate, erect, construct,
reconstruct, enlarge, change, maintain or use any building or land in violation
of the provisions of this chapter or any amendment or supplement thereto
adopted by the Village Council. Any person, firm or corporation violating any
of the provisions of this chapter or any amendment or supplement thereto shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
not more than $500. Each and every day during which such illegal location,
erection, construction, reconstruction, enlargement, change, maintenance or use
continues may be deemed a separate offense.
   (B)   Violations; remedies. In case any building is or is proposed to be
located, erected, constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, changed, maintained or
used in violation of this chapter or any amendment or
supplement thereto, the Village Council, the Village Solicitor, the Zoning
Inspector or any adjacent or neighboring property owner who would be specially
damaged by such violation may, in addition to other remedies provided by law,
institute appropriate action or proceedings to prevent such unlawful location,
erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion, maintenance or
use; to restrain, correct or abate such violation; to prevent the occupancy of
said building, structure or land; to prevent any illegal act, conduct business
or use in or about such premises.
   (C)   Bed and breakfast establishments. No persons shall violate any order
issued by the Village Administrator pursuant to §§
153.480 through
153.488. Any person guilty of such a violation shall be punished by a fine of
not less than $500 or 30 days jail or both.
(Ord. 16-79, passed - -; Ord. 10-2013, passed 5-28-2013)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
II.   LAND USAGE
      
III.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Authorizing the village to enter into a contract with the
8-79     5-15-1979   Commissioner of Allen County relative to the
                     transportation and treatment of sewerage from the county
                     by the village.
                     Authorizing amendments to enterprise zone agreements based
12-01    7-17-2001   on the recommendations of the Tax Incentive Review
                     Council.
                     Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract for the supply
13-05    11-28-2005  of water from the Village of Ottawa to the Village of
                     Bluffton.
                     Authorizing the Mayor to execute an addendum to the
                     contract for the supply of water from the Village of
9-17     - -2017     Ottawa to the Village of Bluffton dated December 2, 2005
                     settling rates paid for water for certain years that have
                     been in dispute and other purposes.
 
TABLE II: LAND USAGE
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Amending Ord. 9-03, an ordinance rezoning certain property
12-04    - -2004     and granting a conditional use permit with special
                     restrictions to Steve and Cheryl McFadden for property
                     located at 158 East College Avenue.
22-07    12-3-2007   Approving a planned unit development known as Parkview of
                     Bluffton.
                     Changing the zoning classification for certain properties
                     along East Jefferson Street between County Line Road and
08-2020  8-10-2020   Huber Street, along the properties bordering the Norfolk
                     Southern Railroad tracks, or public alley that parallels
                     tracks between Jefferson Street and Cherry Street.
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Waste disposal contract with Allied Waste of Carey for a
07-06    5-8-2006    term of three years, with the option to renew the contract
                     for one additional year.
                     Waste disposal contract with Republic Services for a term
13-13    5-3-2013    of three years, with the option to renew the contract for
                     one additional year.
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
Historical References to the Ohio Revised Code
References to Ordinances
HISTORICAL REFERENCES TO THE OHIO REVISED CODE
Ohio Revised Code Section Code Section
Ohio Revised Code Section                Code Section
1.01                                     10.01
1.02                                     10.02
1.05                                     10.02
1.14                                     10.03
1.15                                     10.03
1.23                                     10.05
1.42                                     10.03
1.43                                     10.03
1.44                                     10.02
1.45                                     10.03
1.46                                     10.03
1.47                                     10.18
1.48                                     10.18
1.49                                     10.18
1.50                                     10.07
1.51                                     10.06
1.52                                     10.06
1.54                                     10.04
1.55                                     10.05
1.56                                     10.05
1.57                                     10.04
1.58                                     10.04
1.59                                     10.02
121.22                                   31.01
128.01(A)                                136.20
128.32(E) - (G)                          136.20
128.99(A), (B)                           136.20
701.01                                   10.02
715.67                                   130.99
713.10                                   31.01
713.12                                   31.01
731.09                                   31.01
731.10                                   31.01
731.11                                   31.01
731.12                                   31.01
731.17                                   31.01
731.19                                   31.01
731.20                                   31.01
731.21                                   31.01
731.22                                   31.01
731.24                                   31.01
731.30                                   31.01
731.43                                   31.01
731.44                                   31.01
731.45                                   31.01
731.46                                   31.01
733.24                                   31.01
733.25                                   31.01
733.262                                  31.01
733.41                                   31.01
901.51                                   131.21
901.99(A)                                131.21
1349.17                                  131.31
1349.99(A)                               131.31
1533.171(A)                              131.24,
                                         135.05
1533.99(C)                               131.24,
                                         135.05
2901.01                                  130.02
2901.02                                  130.03
2901.03                                  130.04
2901.04                                  130.05
2901.05                                  130.13
2901.06                                  130.14
2901.08                                  130.15
2901.09                                  130.21
2901.11                                  130.16
2901.13                                  130.06
2901.21                                  130.07
2901.22                                  130.08
2901.23                                  130.09
2901.24                                  130.10
2903.05                                  135.02
2903.06                                  135.03
2903.08(A)(3), (C)(3), (D)(3), (E) - (G) 135.03
2903.09                                  135.01
2903.10                                  135.19
2903.13                                  135.04
2903.14                                  135.04
2903.16                                  135.19
2903.21                                  135.06
2903.211                                 135.06
2903.22                                  135.06
2903.31                                  135.17
2903.311                                 135.17
2903.33                                  135.20
2903.34                                  135.20
2903.341                                 135.20
2903.35                                  135.20
2903.36                                  135.20
2905.03                                  135.07
2905.12                                  135.09
2907.01                                  133.01
2907.04                                  133.02
2907.06                                  133.03
2907.08                                  133.05
2907.09                                  133.04
2907.10                                  133.06
2907.23                                  133.07
2907.231                                 133.07
2907.24(A), (C)(1), (D), (E)             133.08
2907.241                                 133.08
2907.25                                  133.09
2907.26                                  133.13
2907.31                                  133.10
2907.311                                 133.11
2907.33                                  133.12
2907.35                                  133.10
2907.36                                  133.14
2907.37                                  133.15
2907.38                                  133.16
2907.39                                  133.17
2907.40                                  133.18
2909.01                                  131.01
2909.03                                  131.02
2909.06                                  131.03
2909.07                                  131.04
2909.08(A) - (E)                         131.05
2909.09                                  131.03
2909.10                                  131.34
2909.101                                 131.34
2909.11(B) - (D)                         131.02
2909.31                                  136.21
2911.21                                  131.06
2911.211                                 131.06
2911.23                                  131.06
2911.32                                  131.07
2913.01                                  131.01
2913.02                                  131.08
2913.03                                  131.09
2913.04                                  131.10
2913.07                                  131.33
2913.11                                  131.11
2913.21                                  131.12
2913.31(B), (C)(2)                       131.26
2913.32                                  131.27
2913.33                                  131.13
2913.34                                  131.29
2913.40                                  131.23
2913.401                                 131.23
2913.41                                  131.14
2913.42                                  131.15
2913.43                                  131.16
2913.44                                  131.28
2913.441                                 132.11
2913.45                                  131.17
2913.47                                  131.23
2913.48                                  131.23
2913.51                                  131.18
2913.61(B) - (E)                         131.19
2913.71                                  131.20
2913.72                                  131.25
2913.73                                  131.25
2915.01                                  134.01
2915.02(A) - (G), (K)                    134.02
2915.03                                  134.03
2915.04                                  134.04
2915.05                                  134.05
2915.06                                  134.14
2915.061                                 134.14
2915.09                                  134.06
2915.091                                 134.10
2915.092                                 134.11
2915.093                                 134.12
2915.094                                 134.13
2915.10                                  134.07
2915.11                                  134.08
2915.12                                  134.09
2915.13                                  134.12
2915.14                                  134.15
2917.01                                  132.10
2917.03                                  132.01
2917.031                                 132.01
2917.04                                  132.02
2917.05                                  132.03
2917.11                                  132.04
2917.12                                  132.05
2917.13                                  132.06
2917.21                                  132.07
2917.211                                 133.20
2917.31                                  132.08
2917.32                                  132.09
2917.40                                  132.13
2917.41                                  132.14
2919.01                                  135.10
2919.11                                  135.11
2919.12                                  135.11
2919.121                                 135.11
2919.122                                 135.11
2919.14                                  135.12
2919.18                                  135.11
2919.21                                  135.13
2919.22(A) - (E), (H)                    135.14
2919.23                                  135.15
2919.231                                 135.15
2919.24                                  135.18
2919.25                                  135.16
2919.27                                  135.23
2921.01                                  136.01
2921.04                                  136.17
2921.13                                  136.02
2921.14                                  136.14
2921.15                                  136.19
2921.21                                  136.03
2921.22                                  136.04
2921.23                                  136.05
2921.24                                  136.16
2921.25                                  136.16
2921.29                                  136.21
2921.31                                  136.06
2921.32                                  136.07
2921.321                                 136.15
2921.33                                  136.08
2921.331(A) - (C), (E), (F)              70.02
2921.36                                  136.13
2921.37                                  136.13
2921.42                                  136.09
2921.43                                  136.10
2921.44                                  136.11
2921.45                                  136.12
2921.51                                  132.12
2921.52(A) - (D)                         136.18
2923.02                                  130.11
2923.03                                  130.12
2923.11                                  137.01
2923.12                                  137.02
2923.122(C) - (G)                        137.11
2923.126                                 137.13
2923.1211(B), (C)                        137.13
2923.1212                                137.13
2923.131                                 137.12
2923.15                                  137.03
2923.16                                  137.04
2923.162                                 137.09
2923.18                                  137.10
2923.19                                  137.06
2923.20                                  137.07
2923.201                                 137.14
2923.211                                 137.08
2923.24                                  137.05
2925.01                                  138.01
2925.03(A) - (C), (I)                    138.02
2925.04(A), (B), (C)(5), (G)             138.06
2925.11                                  138.03
2925.12                                  138.04
2925.13(A) - (C), (F)                    138.05
2925.14                                  138.13
2925.141                                 138.13
2925.31                                  138.07
2925.32(B)(4), (D)(2), (F), (G)          138.10
2925.33                                  138.10
2925.34                                  138.19
2925.36(A) - (C)                         138.08
2925.37(A), (G)                          138.12
2925.50                                  138.09
2925.51                                  138.11
2925.511                                 138.11
2925.55                                  138.18
2925.56                                  138.18
2925.57                                  138.18
2925.58                                  138.18
2925.62                                  138.20
2927.01                                  135.28
2927.02                                  135.25
2927.021                                 135.25
2927.022                                 135.25
2927.023                                 135.25
2927.024                                 135.25
2927.03                                  135.21
2927.11                                  131.35
2927.12                                  135.22
2927.15                                  135.29
2927.17                                  133.19
2927.27                                  130.20
2929.21                                  130.99
2929.22                                  130.18
2929.23                                  133.99
2929.24                                  130.99
2929.25                                  130.99
2929.26                                  130.99
2929.27                                  130.99
2929.28                                  130.99
2929.31                                  130.99
2929.41                                  130.19
2935.041                                 131.22
2935.28                                  70.08
2935.36(E)                               130.02
2981.07                                  131.30
2981.11                                  130.17
2981.12                                  130.17
2981.13(A)                               130.17
3701.81                                  135.27
3701.82                                  91.40
3701.99(B)                               91.40
3701.99(C)                               135.27
3701.99(C), (D)                          91.99
3715.05                                  138.18
3715.06                                  138.18
3716.11                                  135.24
3716.99(C)                               135.24
3719.08(A), (E)                          138.14
3719.172(A), (B)                         138.15
3719.19                                  138.09
3719.99(C)                               138.14
3719.99(E)                               138.15
3737.51(A)                               91.36
3737.61                                  91.37
3737.62                                  91.38
3737.63                                  91.39
3737.99(B)                               91.36
3737.99(C)                               91.37
3737.99(D)                               91.38
3737.99(E)                               91.39
3743.01                                  91.01
3743.25                                  91.10
3743.54(B) - (F)                         91.03
3743.60(E) - (L)                         91.04
3743.63                                  91.05
3743.64(C)                               91.06
3743.65(A) - (E)                         91.02
3743.66                                  91.07
3743.68                                  91.09
3743.80                                  91.08
3743.99(C), (D), (F) - (H)               91.99
3767.201                                 70.09
3767.99(D)                               70.09
3773.06                                  137.09
3773.99(A)                               137.09
3781.107                                 91.34
3781.108(A), (B)                         91.35
3781.55                                  133.04
3791.02                                  91.34,
                                         91.35
3791.03                                  91.34,
                                         91.35
3791.031                                 135.26
4501.01(LL)                              70.01
4501.01(TT)                              72.061
4503.05                                  71.02
4503.11(A), (D)                          71.01
4503.111                                 71.01
4503.12(A)                               71.01
4503.12(D)                               71.01
4503.21                                  71.01
4503.236                                 71.03
4505.18                                  71.04
4506.01                                  71.45
4506.011                                 71.46
4506.03                                  71.48
4506.04                                  71.47
4506.05                                  71.48
4506.10(A), (E)                          71.49
4506.12(I), (J)                          71.47
4506.15                                  71.50
4506.17(H), (N)                          71.50
4506.19                                  71.51
4506.20                                  71.52
4506.23                                  71.50
4506.99                                  71.99
4507.02(A)                               71.22
4507.03                                  71.22
4507.04                                  71.22
4507.05(F), (I)                          71.21
4507.071(B) - (J)                        71.21
4507.213                                 71.22
4507.30                                  71.20
4507.31                                  71.21
4507.321                                 71.23
4507.35                                  71.26
4507.36                                  71.27
4507.99                                  71.99
4509.74                                  73.33
4509.102                                 136.02
4510.037                                 71.28
                                         71.28,
4510.04                                  71.31(E),
                                         71.32
4510.05                                  71.25
4510.11                                  71.28
4510.111                                 71.28
4510.12                                  71.29
4510.14                                  71.30
4510.15                                  71.25
4510.16                                  71.31
4510.21                                  71.32
4510.44                                  73.08
4511.01                                  70.01
4511.03                                  70.03
4511.031                                 70.38
4511.04                                  70.04
4511.041                                 70.04
4511.042                                 70.04
4511.05                                  70.05
4511.051                                 70.06
4511.08                                  70.07
4511.12(A)                               70.30
4511.12(B)                               70.30
4511.121(A) - (C), (E)                   70.30
4511.13                                  70.31
4511.131                                 70.32
4511.132                                 70.33
4511.14                                  70.34
4511.16                                  70.35
4511.17                                  70.36
4511.18                                  70.37
4511.181                                 73.01
4511.19(A) - (M)                         73.01
4511.191(A), (D)                         73.02
4511.192                                 73.02
4511.194                                 73.03
4511.20                                  73.05
4511.201                                 73.06
4511.202                                 73.07
4511.203                                 71.24
4511.204                                 72.131
4511.205                                 72.132
4511.21(A) - (G), (O), (P)               73.10
4511.211                                 73.10
4511.213                                 72.120
4511.214                                 73.16
4511.215                                 73.16
4511.216                                 73.16
4511.22                                  73.11
4511.23                                  73.13
4511.24                                  73.12
4511.25                                  72.001
4511.251                                 73.09
4511.26                                  72.003
4511.27                                  72.004
4511.28                                  72.005
4511.29                                  72.006
4511.30                                  72.007
4511.31                                  72.008
4511.32                                  72.009
4511.33                                  72.010
4511.34                                  72.011
4511.35                                  72.012
4511.36                                  72.013
4511.37                                  72.014
4511.38                                  72.015
4511.39                                  72.016
4511.40                                  72.017
4511.41                                  72.030
4511.42                                  72.031
4511.43                                  72.032
4511.431                                 72.033
4511.432                                 72.033
4511.44                                  72.034
4511.441                                 72.035
4511.45                                  72.036
4511.451                                 72.037
4511.452                                 72.038
4511.454                                 72.036
4511.46                                  72.039
4511.47                                  72.040
4511.48                                  72.041
4511.481                                 72.060
4511.49                                  72.055
4511.491                                 72.059
4511.50                                  72.056
4511.51                                  72.057
4511.511                                 72.058
4511.512                                 72.061
4511.513                                 72.062
4511.514                                 72.063
4511.52                                  75.01
4511.521                                 75.02
4511.522                                 75.03
4511.53                                  75.04
4511.54                                  75.05
4511.55                                  75.06
4511.56                                  75.07
4511.60                                  72.002
4511.61                                  72.075
4511.62                                  72.076
4511.63                                  72.077
4511.64                                  72.078
4511.65                                  70.10
4511.66                                  76.01
4511.661                                 76.02
4511.67                                  76.03
4511.68                                  76.04
4511.681                                 76.06
4511.69                                  76.05
4511.70                                  72.115
4511.701                                 72.116
4511.71                                  72.117
4511.711                                 72.118
4511.712                                 72.119
4511.713                                 72.118
4511.714                                 72.117
4511.72                                  72.120
4511.73                                  72.121
4511.74                                  72.122
4511.75                                  72.090
4511.751                                 72.091
4511.76(C), (F), (G)                     72.092
4511.761                                 72.093
4511.762                                 72.094
4511.763                                 72.095
4511.764                                 72.096
4511.77                                  72.097
4511.771                                 72.098
4511.772                                 72.099
4511.79                                  73.04
4511.81(A) - (H), (K), (L)               72.123
4511.82                                  72.122
4511.84                                  72.126
4511.85                                  72.127
4511.99                                  70.99
4511.991                                 70.99
4513.02(A), (H)                          74.01
4513.021                                 74.02
4513.03                                  74.03
4513.04                                  74.04
4513.05                                  74.05
4513.06                                  74.06
4513.07                                  74.07
4513.071                                 74.08
4513.08                                  74.09
4513.09                                  74.10
4513.10                                  74.11
4513.11                                  74.12
4513.111                                 74.12
4513.12                                  74.13
4513.13                                  74.14
4513.14                                  74.15
4513.15                                  74.16
4513.16                                  74.17
4513.17                                  74.18
4513.171                                 74.18
4513.18                                  74.19
4513.181                                 74.20
4513.182                                 74.21
4513.19                                  74.22
4513.20                                  74.23
4513.201                                 74.24
4513.202                                 74.25
4513.21                                  74.26
4513.22                                  74.27
4513.23                                  74.28
4513.24                                  74.29
4513.241(C) - (J)                        74.31
4513.25                                  74.30
4513.26                                  74.31
4513.261                                 74.32
4513.262                                 74.33
4513.263                                 72.124
4513.27                                  74.34
4513.28                                  74.35
4513.29                                  74.36
4513.30                                  74.51
4513.31                                  74.52
4513.32                                  74.53
4513.33                                  74.54
4513.34                                  74.50
4513.36                                  73.15
4513.361                                 73.14
4513.50                                  74.38
4513.51(A), (B), (D)                     74.38
4513.66                                  70.12
4513.68                                  70.12
                                         74.11,
                                         74.21,
                                         74.23—
                                         74.25,
4513.99                                  74.30,
                                         74.31,
                                         74.34,
                                         74.36,
                                         74.50—
                                         74.53
4519.01                                  75.25
4519.02                                  75.34
4519.20                                  75.26
4519.22                                  75.26
4519.40                                  75.27
4519.401                                 73.16
4519.41                                  75.28
4519.44                                  75.29
4519.45                                  75.30
4519.46                                  75.31
4519.47                                  75.32
4519.48                                  75.33
4519.66                                  75.35
4549.02                                  73.30
4549.021                                 73.31
4549.03                                  73.32
4549.05                                  70.11
4549.08                                  71.06
4549.081(B), (C)                         70.30
4549.10                                  71.07
4549.11                                  71.01
4549.12                                  71.01
4549.18                                  71.05
4549.20                                  74.39
4731.481                                 138.17
4731.99(F)                               138.17
4734.161                                 138.17
4734.99(B)                               138.17
4933.18                                  131.32
4933.19                                  131.32
5577.02                                  74.55
5577.03                                  74.56
5577.04                                  74.56
5577.041                                 74.56
5577.042                                 74.61
5577.043                                 74.61
5577.044                                 74.61
5577.045                                 74.61
5577.05                                  74.57
5577.06                                  74.57
5577.10                                  74.58
5577.11                                  74.59
5577.12                                  74.60
5577.15                                  74.53
5577.99(A)                               74.55
5577.99(C)                               74.56,
                                         74.57
5577.99(D)                               74.58
5577.99(E)                               74.59
5589.08                                  72.128
5589.081                                 74.37
5589.12                                  131.10
                                         72.128,
5589.99(B)                               74.37,
                                         131.10
5739.01(M)                               91.34
                                         
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1-72     - -         30.01
29-82    - -         Ch. 40 Exh. 3,
                     54.01
                     96.01—
16-67    6-6-1967    96.08,
                     96.99
19-69    8-19-1969   72.018
13-72    9-5-1972    139.01
11-76    11-2-1976   Ch. 78 Sch. I
                     92.01,
4-78     5-16-1978   92.02,
                     92.99
                     92.01,
6-79     4-17-1979   92.02,
                     92.99
8-79     5-15-1979   TSO I
                     153.001—
                     153.004,
                     153.015—
                     153.021,
                     153.035—
                     153.051,
                     153.065—
                     153.068,
                     153.080—
                     153.086,
                     153.100—
                     153.106,
                     153.120—
                     153.126,
                     153.140—
                     153.146,
                     153.160—
                     153.167,
                     153.180—
                     153.188,
                     153.200—
                     153.208,
                     153.220—
16-79    10- -1979   153.225,
                     153.240—
                     153.250,
                     153.265—
                     153.276,
                     153.290,
                     153.291,
                     153.305—
                     153.311,
                     153.325—
                     153.332,
                     153.345,
                     153.360,
                     153.375—
                     153.377,
                     153.390—
                     153.392,
                     153.405—
                     153.410,
                     153.425—
                     153.434,
                     153.445—
                     153.451,
                     153.999
1-80     2-5-1980    32.01—
                     32.07
7-80     4-1-1980    153.429
12-80    8-5-1980    153.083
31-82    1-4-1982    Ch. 77 Sch. III
1-82     2-2-1982    92.01
7-82     2-16-1982   153.332
4-82     3-16-1982   Ch. 77 Sch. I
13-82    4-26-1982   153.201
16-82    6-15-1982   Ch. 78 Sch. I
22-82    10-19-1982  Ch. 40 Exh. 2,
                     50.02
                     153.052,
26-82    11-2-1982   153.306,
                     153.392
                     Ch. 40 Exh. 2,
14-83    11-1-1983   50.01—
                     50.05
                     Ch. 40 Exh. 2,
19-83    12-20-1983  54.01—
                     54.05
6-84     4-3-1984    54.04
3-85     2-19-1985   33.02
7-85     6-4-1985    139.02
11-85    6-4-1985    37.015—
                     37.017
23-87    - -1987     70.13
                     Ch. 40 Exh. 2,
3-87     2-17-1987   50.01—
                     50.07,
                     50.99
4-87     2-17-1987   54.01—
                     54.05
5-87     4-7-1987    54.03
                     92.01—
10-87    5-5-1987    92.03,
                     92.99
18-87    8-4-1987    Ch. 40 Exh. 3,
                     54.01
                     96.01—
21-88    1-3-1989    96.08,
                     96.99
                     Ch. 40 Exh. 2,
3-89     2-21-1989   50.01—
                     50.07,
                     50.99
10-90    7-17-1990   75.08
2-91     3-5-1991    Ch. 78 Sch. I,
                     Ch. 78 Sch. II
5-91     5-7-1991    153.447
10-91    8-20-1991   92.01,
                     92.99
30-92    - -1992     36.02
                     Ch. 40 Exh. 2,
2-92     3-3-1992    50.01—
                     50.07,
                     50.99
18-93    12-7-1993   111.01—
                     111.05
                     94.01—
15-95    7-3-1995    94.09,
                     94.99
                     Ch. 40 Exh. 3,
5-96     3-11-1996   51.02,
                     51.99
17-96    4-22-1996   96.20,
                     96.99
19-96    6-10-1996   Ch. 77 Sch. II
22-96    6-10-1996   Ch. 77 Sch. III
25-96    6-24-1996   153.266
                     Ch. 40 Exh. 3,
32-96    10-7-1996   54.20—
                     54.24,
                     54.99
33-96    10-7-1996   51.04
                     Ch. 40 Exh. 3,
34-96    10-7-1996   51.02,
                     51.99
                     Ch. 40 Exh. 3,
35-96    10-7-1996   54.01,
                     54.06,
                     54.99
8-97     5-27-1997   Ch. 77 Sch. I
                     Ch. 40 Exh. 3,
11-97    6-9-1997    51.02,
                     51.99
16-97    7-14-1997   153.465—
                     153.468
18-97    8-11-1997   72.018
                     37.030—
3-98     4-13-1998   37.044,
                     37.999
5-98     5-11-1998   94.02
                     Ch. 40 Exh. 3,
9-98     6-22-1998   51.02,
                     51.99
                     153.004,
2-99     2-8-1999    153.082,
                     153.102
3-99     3-8-1999    76.13
11-99    6-14-1999   96.20,
                     96.99
8-00     - -2000     39.02
                     Ch. 40 Exh. 2,
4-00     4-10-2000   50.01—
                     50.07,
                     50.99
6-00     4-10-2000   34.01
5-00     4-24-2000   54.40—
                     54.43
                     Ch. 40 Exh. 3,
10-00    6-26-2000   54.20—
                     54.24,
                     54.99
                     Ch. 40 Exh. 3,
20-00    11-7-2000   54.01,
                     54.99
22-00    11-7-2000   Ch. 78 Sch. III
12-01    7-17-2001   TSO I
                     Ch. 40 Exh. 3,
13-01    7-25-2001   51.02,
                     51.99
17-01    10-16-2001  38.02
17-02    - -2002     Ch. 40 Exh. 4
9-02     5-7-2002    Ch. 78 Sch. IV
12-02    5-7-2002    76.99
14-02    6-4-2002    34.01
                     Ch. 40 Exh. 3,
18-02    7-16-2002   54.01,
                     54.06,
                     54.99
                     72.018,
25-02    9-9-2002    139.01,
                     139.02
26-02    10-14-2002  76.14
                     110.01—
28-02    11-25-2002  110.08,
                     110.99,
                     Ch. 40 Exh. 4
30-02    12-9-2002   153.053
38-02    12-23-2002  76.14
                     50.20,
1-03     2-10-2003   50.21,
                     50.99
05-03    6-23-2003   34.01
14-03    7-28-2003   51.01
                     Ch. 40 Exh. 2,
19-03    10-13-2003  50.01,
                     50.02
22-03    11-24-2003  34.01
12-04    - -2004     TSO II 
                     72.018,
03-04    2-9-2004    139.01,
                     139.02
06-04    4-26-2004   94.03,
                     94.04
8-04     5-24-2004   38.02
12-04    8-9-2004    Ch. 77 Sch. II
                     152.001—
                     152.011,
                     152.020,
                     152.035—
                     152.038,
                     152.050—
                     152.066,
                     152.080—
20-04    12-27-2004  152.101,
                     152.115—
                     152.124,
                     152.140—
                     152.147,
                     152.160—
                     152.164,
                     152.999,
                     Ch. 152 App. A,
                     Ch. 152 App. B
22-04    12-27-2004  34.01
                     Ch. 40 Exh. 3,
02-05    4-25-2005   51.02,
                     51.99
                     150.15—
07-05    8-22-2005   150.18,
                     150.99
                     150.30—
08-05    9-12-2005   150.36,
                     150.99
13-05    11-28-2005  TSO I
01-06    2-27-2006   34.01
                     Ch. 40 Exh. 2,
                     50.01—
07-06    5-8-2006    50.07,
                     50.99,
                     TSO III
05-06    5-22-2006   33.30
17-06    12-11-2006  38.01
19-07    11-12-2007  92.04
22-07    12-3-2007   TSO II
26-07    12-20-2007  34.01
32-08    - -2008     38.15—
                     38.22
                     Ch. 40 Exh. 3,
06-08    4-14-2008   54.20—
                     54.24,
                     54.99
                     95.01—
16-08    6-9-2008    95.03,
                     95.99
23-08    8-25-2008   39.01
26-08    10-27-2008  36.01
05-09    4-13-2009   34.01
                     Ch. 40 Exh. 2,
03-09    5-11-2009   50.01—
                     50.07,
                     50.99
06-09    5-26-2009   96.21
06-10    4-26-2010   51.03
                     Ch. 40 Exh. 3,
13-10    6-14-2010   54.20—
                     54.24,
                     54.99
                     Ch. 40 Exh. 3,
14-10    6-14-2010   54.01,
                     54.06,
                     54.99
17-10    7-12-2010   150.01,
                     150.03
18-10    7-12-2010   150.02
33-10    11-22-2010  34.01
14-11    - -2011     30.03
38-10    1-24-2011   Ch. 77 Sch. II
                     Ch. 40 Exh. 3,
05-11    6-13-2011   54.01,
                     54.06,
                     54.99
                     Ch. 40 Exh. 3,
06-11    6-13-2011   54.20—
                     54.24,
                     54.99
                     Ch. 40 Exh. 3,
11-11    7-25-2011   54.01,
                     54.06,
                     54.99
                     Ch. 40 Exh. 3,
12-11    7-25-2011   54.20—
                     54.24,
                     54.99
09-11    8-8-2011    72.019
07-12    5-29-2012   Ch. 78 Sch. I
                     54.21,
14-12    7-9-2012    54.24,
                     54.99
15-12    8-27-2012   132.15
                     151.001—
                     151.010,
                     151.025,
                     151.040—
                     151.050,
03-13    3-25-2013   151.065—
                     151.074,
                     151.085—
                     151.090,
                     151.105,
                     151.106,
                     151.999
                     Ch. 40 Exh. 2,
                     50.01—
13-13    5-13-2013   50.07,
                     50.99,
                     TSO III
                     153.480—
10-2013  5-28-2013   153.488,
                     153.999
14-13    5-28-2013   Ch. 40 Exh. 1
22-13    11-11-2013  33.15—
                     33.19
                     96.35—
24-13    11-25-2013  96.42,
                     96.99
29-13    12-23-2013  30.02
9-14     10-6-2014   31.01
                     Ch. 40 Exh. 3,
19-14    1-19-2015   54.20—
                     54.23
20-14    1-19-2015   Ch. 40 Exh. 3,
                     54.01
                     54.40,
21-14    1-19-2015   54.42,
                     54.43
08-15    5-4-2015    34.01
                     37.055—
18-15    11-2-2015   37.076,
                     37.999
19-15    11-16-2015  Ch. 78 Sch. I
22-15    12-21-2015  Ch. 77 Sch. II
23-15    12-21-2015  76.04
24-15    12-21-2015  76.04
25-15    12-21-2015  76.04
26-15    12-21-2015  Ch. 78 Sch. V
27-15    12-21-2015  Ch. 78 Sch. I
22-16    - -2016     35.01
                     Ch. 40 Exh. 2,
05-16    -20-2016    50.01—
                     50.07,
                     50.99
04-16    5-2-2016    Ch. 40 Exh. 1
19-16    12-5-2016   Ch. 40 Exh. 1
08-17    - -2017     33.01
9-17     - -2017     TSO I
06-17    5-15-2017   Ch. 40 Exh. 1
15-16    10-17-2017  94.20—
                     94.25
                     72.018,
                     72.019,
                     76.04,
                     76.13,
02-18    2-12-2018   96.20,
                     96.99,
                     132.15,
                     139.01,
                     139.02
                     37.090—
03-18    2-26-2018   37.105,
                     37.999
7-18     4-23-2018   37.001
08-18    7-23-2018   95.15—
                     95.21
11-18    1-14-2019   95.30—
                     95.36
01-19    1-28-2019   37.077
07-19    7-22-2019   Ch. 78 Sch. I
                     93.01—
08-19    9-23-2019   93.17,
                     93.99
03-2020  8-10-2020   Ch. 78 Sch. I
04-2020  4-27-2020   Ch. 40 Exh. 2
05-2020  5-26-2020   34.01
06-2020  5-26-2020   Adopting Ordinance
07-2020  7-13-2020   153.004,
                     153.053
08-2020  8-10-2020   TSO II
                     90.01—
12-2020  - -         90.04,
                     90.99
--       - -         Ch. 40 Exh. 3
03-21    - -         95.04
                     52.01—
                     52.06,
                     52.20—
                     52.31,
04-21    - -         52.45—
                     52.53,
                     52.65—
                     52.68,
                     52.80—
                     52.88
05-21    - -         152.038
                     53.01—
06-21    - -         53.08,
                     53.99
07-21    7-26-2021   34.01
09-21    10-25-2021  Chapter 78 Sch. I
                    
 
 
