BOTKINS, OHIO
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 24-10, passed 2-29-2024
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.05   Construction of section references
   
10.06   Conflicting provisions
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Ordinances repealed
   
10.11   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.12   Ordinances saved
   
10.13   Application to future ordinances
   
10.14   Interpretation
   
10.15   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.16   Statutory references
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Determination of legislative intent
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the village, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“village code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Title, chapter and section headings
do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
(R.C. § 1.01)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01”. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AND/OR. The word “and” may be read as “or”, and the word “or” may be read as
“and”, if the sense requires it.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   BOND. Includes an undertaking.
   CERTIFIED MAIL. Includes registered mail.
   CHILD. Includes child by adoption.
   COUNCIL. The Village Council of the Village of Botkins, Ohio.
   COUNTY. Shelby County, Ohio.
   FIRE CHIEF. Includes the Chief of the Fire Department if a Fire Department
has been established in the village, and includes the Fire Prevention Officer
if no Fire Department has been established in the village.
   IMPRISONED. The same meaning as in R.C. § 1.05.
   INTERNET. The international computer network of both federal and non-federal
interoperable packet switched data networks, including the graphical subnetwork
known as the World Wide Web.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of incorporeal nature.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   O.A.C. Refers to the Ohio Administrative Code.
   OATH. Includes affirmation.
   OF UNSOUND MIND. The person lacks the relevant mental capacity.
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner or
tenant in common of the whole or part of that property.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership and association.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real property.
   PLAN OF SEWERAGE, SYSTEM OF SEWERAGE, SEWER and SEWERS. Includes sewers,
sewage disposal works and treatment plants, and sewage pumping stations,
together with facilities and appurtenances necessary and proper therefor.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the village, county, state
or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   R.C. Refers to the Ohio Revised Code.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Ohio.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the village.
   SWEAR. Includes affirm.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   UNDERTAKING. Includes a bond.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Botkins, Ohio.
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITING. Includes printing.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. The terms include any representation of words,
letters, symbols or figures; this provision does not affect any law relating to
signatures.
   YEAR. Twelve consecutive months.
(R.C. §§ 1.02, 1.05, 1.44, 1.59, 701.01)
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Common and technical usage. Words and phrases shall be read in context
and construed according to the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and
phrases that have acquired a technical or particular meaning, whether by
legislative definition or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
(R.C. § 1.42)
   (B)   Singular and plural; gender; tenses. As used in this code, unless the
context otherwise requires:
      (1)   The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the
singular.
      (2)   Words of one gender include the other genders.
      (3)   Words in the present tense include the future tense.
(R.C. § 1.43)
   (C)   Calendar; computation of time.
      (1)   The time within which an act is required by law to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day; except that when
the last day falls on Sunday or a legal holiday, then the act may be done on
the next succeeding day that is not a Sunday or a legal holiday.
      (2)   When a public office, in which an act required by law is to be
performed, is closed to the public for the entire day that constitutes the last
day for doing the act or before its usual closing time on that day, the act may
be performed on the next succeeding day that is not a Sunday or a legal
holiday.
      (3)   As used in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) of this section, LEGAL
HOLIDAY means the following days:
         (a)   The first day of January, known as New Year’s Day;
         (b)   The third Monday in January, known as Martin Luther King, Jr.
Day;
         (c)   The third Monday in February, known as Washington-Lincoln Day;
         (d)   The day designated in the “Act of June 28, 1968”, 82 Stat. 250,
5 U.S.C. § 6103, as amended, for the commemoration of Memorial Day;
         (e)   The nineteenth day of June, known as Juneteenth day;
         (f)   The fourth day of July, known as Independence Day;
         (g)   The first Monday in September, known as Labor Day;
         (h)   The second Monday in October, known as Columbus Day;
         (i)   The eleventh day of November, known as Veteran’s Day;
         (j)   The fourth Thursday in November, known as Thanksgiving Day;
         (k)   The twenty-fifth day of December, known as Christmas Day; and
         (l)   Any day appointed and recommended by the Governor of this state
or the President of the United States as a holiday.
      (4)   If any day designated in this section as a legal holiday falls on a
Sunday, the next succeeding day is a legal holiday.
(R.C. § 1.14)
      (5)   When an act is to take effect or become operative from and after a
day named, no part of that day shall be included. If priority of legal rights
depends upon the order of events on the same day, the priority shall be
determined by the times in the day at which they respectively occurred.
(R.C. § 1.15)
      (6)   If a number of months is to be computed by counting the months from
a particular day, the period ends on the same numerical day in the concluding
month as the day of the month from which the computation is begun, unless there
are not that many days in the concluding month, in which case the period ends
on the last day of that month.
(R.C. § 1.45)
      (7)   In all cases where the law shall require any act to be done in a
reasonable time or reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or notice
shall mean such time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the
duty or compliance with the notice.
   (D)   Numbers. If there is a conflict between figures and words in
expressing a number, the words govern.
(R.C. § 1.46)
   (E)   Authority. When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as
well be done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be
construed to include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (F)   Joint authority. All words purporting to give joint authority to three
or more village officers or other persons shall be construed as giving that
authority to a majority of the officers or other persons, unless it shall be
otherwise expressly declared in the law giving the authority, or it is
inconsistent with state law or village charter provisions.
   (G)   Exceptions. The rules of construction shall not apply to any law which
contains any express provision excluding the construction, or when the subject
matter or context of the law is repugnant thereto.
§ 10.04 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing statute does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
(R.C. § 1.57)
   (B)   The re-enactment, amendment or repeal of an ordinance does not, except
as provided in division (C) of this section:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment; and the
investigation, proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture or punishment for any offense is reduced by
a re-enactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
(R.C. § 1.58)
   (D)   An ordinance which is re-enacted or amended is intended to be a
continuation of the prior ordinance and not a new enactment, so far as it is
the same as the prior ordinance.
(R.C. § 1.54)
§ 10.05 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, or of divisions or subdivisions of a
section, the reference shall be construed to mean a violation of any provision
of the section, sections, divisions or subdivisions included in the reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
(R.C. § 1.23)
   (C)   A reference to any portion of a provision of this code applies to all
re-enactments or amendments thereof.
(R.C. § 1.55)
   (D)   If a section refers to a series of numbers or letters, the first and
the last numbers or letters are included.
(R.C. § 1.56)
   (E)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter has been
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.06 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   If a general provision conflicts with a special or local provision,
they shall be construed, if possible, so that effect is given to both. If the
conflict between the provisions is irreconcilable, the special or local
provision prevails as an exception to the general provision, unless the general
provision is the later adoption and the manifest intent is that the general
provision prevail.
(R.C. § 1.51)
   (B)   (1)   If ordinances enacted at different meetings of the village are
irreconcilable, the ordinance latest in date of enactment prevails.
      (2)   If amendments to the same ordinance are enacted at different
meetings of the village, one amendment without reference to another, the
amendments are to be harmonized, if possible, so that effect may be given to
each. If the amendments are substantively irreconcilable, the latest in date of
enactment prevails. The fact that a later amendment restates language deleted
by an earlier amendment, or fails to include language inserted by an earlier
amendment, does not of itself make the amendments irreconcilable. Amendments
are irreconcilable only when changes made by each cannot reasonably be put into
simultaneous operation.
(R.C. § 1.52)
   (C)   In the event of a conflict between any of the provisions of this code,
or between any of the provisions of this code and any standard code adopted by
the village pursuant to R.C. § 731.231, the provision that establishes the
higher or stricter standard shall control.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of this code or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions or applications of the section or related sections which can
be given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end
the provisions are severable.
(R.C. § 1.50)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the village exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any words necessary to express the intention of the
provisions affected, the use of words to which no meaning can be attached, or
the use of a word when another word was clearly intended to express the
intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and the words supplied, omitted or
substituted shall conform with the manifest intention, and the provision shall
have the same effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as
originally published. No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question
exists regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   With the exception of any ordinances specifically saved by the village, this
code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the provisions of
a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and embraced. All
prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code shall be
deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of ordinances.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
and all ordinances specifically saved by the village shall remain in full force
and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
legislative body, or a certain village officer or employee, to make additional
ordinances or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intention of the
ordinance, all ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving the
purpose, effected prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall
remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.13 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.14 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.15 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to the adoption of this code may be numbered in
accordance with the numbering system of this code and need not be inserted in
this code, but shall be treated as if printed for inclusion herein.
   (B)   The following language may be used by the village to amend, add, or
repeal a chapter, section, or division:
      (1)   To amend a section: “Section                 of the Botkins Code of
Ordinances is amended to read as follows: ....”
      (2)   To add a section: “Section                 of the Botkins Code of
Ordinances, which is to be added to and amends the Botkins Code of Ordinances,
reads as follows: ....”
      (3)   To repeal a section: “Section                 of the Botkins Code
of Ordinances, which reads as follows, is repealed: ....”
§ 10.16 STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, located in parentheses
immediately following a division or section of this code, this indicates that
the text of the division or section is substantially equivalent to the
statutory provision.
Example: (R.C. § 4511.02)
   (B)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following
the text of a section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information.
Example:
   § 30.08 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      Unless otherwise exempted by state law, all public records shall be
promptly prepared and made available for inspection to any person.
   Statutory reference:
      Public records, see R.C. § 149.43
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.18 DETERMINATION OF LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   (A)   In enacting an ordinance, it is presumed that:
      (1)   Compliance with the constitutions of the State and of the United
States is intended;
      (2)   The entire ordinance is intended to be effective;
      (3)   A just and reasonable result is intended; and
      (4)   A result feasible of execution is intended.
(R.C. § 1.47)
   (B)   An ordinance is presumed to be prospective in its operation unless
expressly made retrospective.
(R.C. § 1.48)
   (C)   If an ordinance is ambiguous, the court, in determining the intention
of the village, may consider among other matters:
      (1)   The object sought to be attained;
      (2)   The circumstances under which the ordinance was enacted;
      (3)   The legislative history;
      (4)   The common law or former legislative provisions, including laws
upon the same or similar subjects;
      (5)   The consequences of a particular construction; and
      (6)   The administrative construction of the ordinance.
(R.C. § 1.49)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever, in this village code or in any ordinance of the village, any
act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a
misdemeanor, or whenever the doing of any act is required or the failure to do
any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is otherwise
provided, whoever violates any such provision shall be punished by a fine not
exceeding $500, a term of imprisonment not exceeding six months, or both. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation continues or occurs.
   (B)   The failure of any officer or employee of the village to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation unless a penalty is specifically provided
for the failure.
Cross-reference:
   Misdemeanor classifications, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Ordinance violations and penalties, see R.C. § 715.67
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
33.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
34.   EMPLOYEE REGULATIONS
      
35.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
36.   PLANS AND POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Fiscal Officer
   
30.02   Village Administrator
   
30.03   Council meetings
   
30.04   Posting ordinances
   
30.05   Smoking in public buildings
   
30.06   Records retention schedule
   
30.07   Multiple false alarm fees
   
30.08   Video service provider fee
   
30.09   County 9-1-1 enhanced system
   
30.10   Village Solicitor
Cross-reference:
   Employee regulations, see
Ch. 34
§ 30.01 FISCAL OFFICER.
   (A)   The Fiscal Officer appointed under this section shall perform the
duties provided by law for the Village Clerk and Treasurer and any other duties
consistent with the nature of the office that are provided for by municipal
ordinance.
   (B)   The Fiscal Officer shall be appointed by the Mayor of the village, but
that appointment does not become effective until it is approved by a majority
vote of the Village Council. The Fiscal Officer need not be an elector of the
village or reside in the village at the time of appointment; however, the
Fiscal Officer shall become a resident of the village within six months after
the appointment takes effect, unless an ordinance is passed approving the
Fiscal Officer’s residence outside of the village.
   (C)   The Fiscal Officer may be removed without cause either by the Mayor
with the consent of a majority of the members of the Village Council or by a
three-fourths vote of the village legislative authority with or without the
consent of the Mayor.
(Res. 10-23, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 30.02 VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   In accordance with R.C. § 735.271, the position of Village
Administrator is hereby established.
   (B)   The Village Administrator shall have those powers, duties and
functions as provided by the laws of the state, including, but not limited to,
those powers and duties expressly set forth in R.C. §§ 735.273, 731.141 and
735.31.
   (C)   In accordance with R.C. § 735.272, after the effective date of this
section, the appointment of the Village Administrator by the Mayor, and the
confirmation of the appointment of the Village Administrator by the Village
Council, the Board of Public Appeals shall be abolished.
(Ord. 97-25, passed 11-19-1997)
§ 30.03 COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   (A)   The regular meetings of the Village Council shall be held every second
and last Wednesday of each month. Meetings will be held at 6:00 p.m. in the
Village Council Chambers located at 210 South Mill Street.
   (B)   A schedule of meetings will be prepared by the Village Administrator
in advance of each new calendar year and made available to the public.
   (C)   Any person may request reasonable advanced notification of all
meetings in accordance with R.C. § 121.22(F).
(Ord. 22-01, passed 2-8-2022; Ord. 23-21, passed 6-14-2023)
§ 30.04 POSTING ORDINANCES.
   The Village Council hereby determines that five of the most public places
within the corporate limits of the village where ordinances, resolutions,
statements, orders, proclamations, notices and reports shall be posted for
purposes of publication are as follows:
   (A)   Botkins Branch Library, 109 East Lynn Street;
   (B)   Village of Botkins Administrative Center, 210 South Mill Street;
   (C)   United States Post Office, 106 South Mill Street;
   (D)   First National Bank, 204 West State Street; and
   (E)   Meyer’s Tavern, 303 North Main Street.
(Ord. 21-26, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 30.05 SMOKING IN PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
   Smoking of tobacco products in public buildings located within the village
shall be and is hereby prohibited.
(Ord. 93-10, passed 6-8-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 30.06 RECORDS RETENTION SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The Village Administrator is hereby authorized to act in the position
as the custodian of records and should be notified of any requests,
discrepancies, complaints, inquiries, storage, itemization, archival or
destruction of public records.
   (B)   The village adopts the Local Government Records Manual, 2017, authored
by the Ohio County Archivists and Records Managers Association.
(Res. 09-18, passed 12-29-2009; Res. 23-30, passed 10-2-2023)
§ 30.07 MULTIPLE FALSE ALARM FEES.
   (A)   Alarm users shall be responsible for excessive alarms sent by alarm
systems on premises under their control. The fees imposed shall be based on the
number of false alarms sent by the one alarm system within a calendar year.
   (B)   There is hereby imposed on alarm users an administrative fee, based on
the cost of administration and police response to alarms, as follows:
      (1)   For one through four alarms, no fee shall be imposed;
      (2)   For the fifth and any additional alarms, a fee of $125 for each
false alarm received shall be imposed; and
      (3)   Fees will be charged on quarterly basis.
   (C)   If the alarm user changes alarm monitoring companies, the alarm count
will remain the same.
   (D)   Any fee not paid within 30 days after it is imposed will result in the
alarm user having the fee assessed to the property taxes of the property.
(Ord. 15-07, passed 5-19-2015)
§ 30.08 VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE.
   (A)   There is hereby established a video service provider (VSP) fee that is
calculated by applying a VSP fee percentage of 3% to the video service
provider’s gross revenues as defined in § 1332.32(B) of the Video Law, being
R.C. § 1332.21 through 1332.24. All video service providers and cable
television operators providing video service in the village shall apply the VSP
fee percentage against gross revenues as defined in the Video Law.
   (B)   The VSP fee shall be paid by each video service provider providing
service in the village on a quarterly basis but not sooner than 45 days nor
later than 60 days after the end of each calendar quarter per R.C. § 1332.32
(A).
   (C)   The Mayor is authorized and directed to provide any video service
provider with notice of the VSP fee percentage as determined by the Council,
which notice shall be given by certified mail, upon receipt of notice from such
video service provider that it will begin providing video service in the
village pursuant to a state-issued video service authorization.
(Ord. 09-10, passed 7-28-2009)
§ 30.09 COUNTY 9-1-1 ENHANCED SYSTEM.
   The village does hereby approve and endorse the proposal and final plan for
implementation of a county-wide enhanced 9-1-1 system in the county, which has
been submitted by the 9-1-1 Planning Committee.
(Res. 91-9, passed 5-14-1991)
§ 30.10 VILLAGE SOLICITOR.
   (A)   In accordance with R.C. § 7335.48(A), the position of Village
Solicitor is hereby established. The Village Council has deemed it necessary to
provide legal counsel for the village and its departments.
   (B)   The compensation of the Village Solicitor shall be as set forth from
Council from time to time. The compensation shall cover the normal duties of
the office of Solicitor, which includes attending Council meetings and at least
two additional meetings at the request of the Mayor, Council, and/or Village
Administrator, and drafting and preparation of routine ordinances and
resolutions. Excluded are extraordinary services, including, but not limited
to, appearances on behalf of the village, drafting and preparing of special
legislative enactments, preparation of ballot issues for the village,
preparations of bond issues and renewals, matters associated with the village
income tax and wastewater treatment plant, zoning, and annexation issues. Such
extraordinary matters shall be by prior approval of Council. The solicitor or
his or her assistants shall be paid in addition for extraordinary matters.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Village Solicitor to act as attorney and
counsel for the village and officers thereto in their official capacity, and as
such attorney, to prepare ordinances, render legal opinions to the Council,
Mayor, and Village Administrator upon request.
(Ord. 22-24, passed 12-20-2022)
CHAPTER 31: BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   County Regional Planning Commission
   
31.02   Community Improvement Corporation
   
31.03   County Disaster Services/Emergency Management Agency
   
31.04   County Civil Defense Organization
Joint Recreation Board
   
31.15   Establishment
   
31.16   Jurisdiction
   
31.17   Power and authority
   
31.18   Composition
   
31.19   Terms of members
   
31.20   Vacancies
   
31.21   Compensation
   
31.22   Organization
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 COUNTY REGIONAL PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The village participates as a member of the County Regional Planning
Commission.
   (B)   The Mayor, with the consent of the Council, is authorized and directed
to appoint such members to the County Regional Planning Commission as the
village may be entitled to.
   (C)   The expenses of the Council members, in attending meetings, shall be
reimbursed upon voucher presented to the Fiscal Officer.
(Res. 87-23, passed 11-10-1987)
§ 31.02 COMMUNITY IMPROVEMENT CORPORATION.
   Pursuant to the authority of R.C. § 1724.10, the Botkins Community
Improvement Corporation shall be and is hereby designated as the agency of the
village for the industrial, commercial, distribution and research development
within the village.
(Res. 90-5, passed 9-11-1990)
§ 31.03 COUNTY DISASTER SERVICES/EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY.
   (A)   The village desires to be a member of and participate in the
activities of the County Emergency Management Agency.
   (B)   Resolution 90-122 which the County Board of Commissioners passed on
March 8, 1990 shall be and is hereby adopted in its entirety. A copy of this
resolution is attached to Resolution 90-7, made a part hereof and marked as
Exhibit A.
   (C)   The Fiscal Officer is hereby authorized and directed to do all things
which are necessary for the village to be a member and participant in the
County Emergency Management Agency, including, but not limited to, paying from
the village treasury the funding contribution which is required of the village
in order to participate in this most worthy and necessary organization.
(Res. 90-7, passed 8-14-1990)
§ 31.04 COUNTY CIVIL DEFENSE ORGANIZATION.
   The Village Council hereby grants to and confers upon the County Civil
Defense Executive Committee and the Director of the County Civil Defense
Organization all powers and authority provided by statute and hereby agrees to
abide by the rules, regulations and policies of the County Civil Defense
Organization as do other villages and political subdivisions within the county.
(Res. 89-32, passed 12-12-1989)
JOINT RECREATION BOARD
§ 31.15 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There shall be and is hereby established a joint recreation board between
the village and the School Board to possess all the powers and to be subject to
all the responsibilities under R.C. §§ 755.12 to 755.18 (“Joint Recreation
Board”).
(Res. 98-28, passed 9-9-1998)
§ 31.16 JURISDICTION.
   The jurisdiction of the Joint Recreation Board established under this
subchapter shall be the park commonly known as the Botkins Community Park,
located within the village on the north side of State Route 219, commonly
referred to as State Street, near the east boundary of the village’s
corporation limits. The park more fully described in two certain deeds, one of
which was executed and delivered by the School Board of the village, dated
March 22, 1994, filed for record in the Office of the County Recorder on April
7, 1994, and recorded in Volume 321, at Pages 340 through 343 of the County
Deed Records, and the other of which was executed and delivered to the village
from the Botkins Area Community Club, (“Community Club”) is dated April 5,
1994, filed for record in the Office of the County Recorder on April 7, 1994,
and recorded in Volume 321 at Pages 337 through 339 of the County Deed Records
(collectively, “the Park”).
(Res. 98-28, passed 9-9-1998)
§ 31.17 POWER AND AUTHORITY.
   The Joint Recreation Board established by this subchapter shall have the
following power and authority to:
   (A)   Acquire, in the manner provided by law for the acquisition of land or
buildings for public purposes in municipal corporations, land and buildings for
use as playgrounds, playfields and parks under R.C. § 755.12;
   (B)   Supervise and maintain parks, playgrounds and playfields located at
and in connection with the park;
   (C)   Equip, develop and operate the park and the park facilities as
authorized by R.C. §§ 755.12 through 755.18;
   (D)   Employ play leaders, recreation directors, supervisors,
superintendents, or any other officers or employees necessary for carrying out
the purposes and functions of the Joint Recreation Board in connection with the
park as authorized under R.C. § 755.13;
   (E)   Acquire and pay the cost of insuring such officers or employees
against liability on account of damages or injury to persons or property
arising from or out of the activity and/or conduct of the members of the Joint
Recreation Board established by this subchapter and the members in their
performance of their official duties in connection with the park; and
   (F)   Do all things which are necessary and incidental in connection with
and in furtherance of the purposes of the Joint Recreation Board set forth in
subchapter; the power and authority of the Joint Recreation Board set forth in
this section; and the power and authority for Joint Recreation Board set forth
in R.C. §§ 755.12 through 755.18 in connection with the park.
(Res. 98-28, passed 9-9-1998)
§ 31.18 COMPOSITION.
   The Joint Recreation Board established by this subchapter in connection with
the park shall consist and be composed of seven members who shall be selected
and appointed as follows:
   (A)   Two members of the Joint Recreation Board shall be members of the
Village Council and shall be appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the
Village Council. Neither member of the Village Council appointed under this
provision shall also be a member of the School Board or the Community Club;
   (B)   One member of the Joint Recreation Board shall be a member of the
School Board or shall be appointed by the School Board. The member appointed by
the School Board shall not be a member of the Village Council or the Community
Club; and
   (C)   Four members of the Joint Recreation Board shall be at-large members,
none of whom shall be a member of either the Village Council, the School Board
or except as otherwise permitted in this division (C), the Community Club. The
at-large members shall be appointed by the Mayor with the consent of Village
Council. One of the at-large members appointed by the Mayor shall be a member
of the Community Club which Community Club member shall also not be a member of
the School Board or the Village Council.
(Res. 98-28, passed 9-9-1998)
§ 31.19 TERMS OF MEMBERS.
   All members of the Joint Recreation Board shall serve for terms of three
years, except that the members first appointed upon the establishment of the
Joint Recreation Board under this subchapter shall be appointed for the
following terms:
   (A)   One Village Council member appointed under §
31.18(A) shall be appointed to the Joint Recreation Board for an initial term
of one year;
   (B)   One Village Council member appointed under §
31.18(A) shall be appointed to the Joint Recreation Board for an initial term
of three years;
   (C)   The member appointed by the School Board under §
31.19(B) shall be appointed to the Joint Recreation Board for an initial term
of two years;
   (D)   The member of the Community Club appointed by the Mayor as an at-large
member under §
31.18(C) shall be appointed to the Joint Recreation Board for an initial term
of three years;
   (E)   One at-large member appointed by the Mayor and approved by Village
Council under §
31.19(C) shall be appointed to the Joint Recreation Board for an initial term
of one year;
   (F)   One at-large member appointed by the Mayor and approved by Village
Council under §
31.19(C) shall be appointed to the Joint Recreation Board for an initial term
of two years; and
   (G)   One at-large member appointed by the Mayor and approved by Village
Council under §
31.18(C) shall be appointed to the Joint Recreation Board for an initial term
of three years.
(Res. 98-28, passed 9-9-1998)
§ 31.20 VACANCIES.
   (A)   A vacancy in the seat of any member of the Joint Recreation Board
established by this subchapter occurring otherwise than by expiration of term
shall be for the unexpired term of such vacant seat and shall be filled in the
same manner as original appointments for the unexpired term of the vacated
seat. A member of the Village Council, who is appointed to the Joint Recreation
Board established by this subchapter, shall be required to vacate such member’s
seat on the Joint Recreation Board if the term of such person as a member of
Village Council expires prior to the expiration to such member’s term as a
member of the Joint Recreation Board.
   (B)   A member of the School Board, who is appointed to the Joint Recreation
Board established by this subchapter, shall be required to vacate such member’s
seat on the Joint Recreation Board if the term of such person as a member of
the School Board expires prior to the expiration to such member’s term as a
member of the Joint Recreation Board.
(Res. 98-28, passed 9-9-1998)
§ 31.21 COMPENSATION.
   As required under R.C. § 755.14, members of the Joint Recreation Board
established by this subchapter shall serve without compensation.
(Res. 98-28, passed 9-9-1998)
§ 31.22 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority contained in R.C. § 755.15, the members of
the Joint Recreation Board established by this subchapter shall elect their own
chairperson and secretary, shall select all other necessary officers, and may
employ such other persons as are needed.
   (B)   All officers, including, but not limited to, the chairperson and
secretary of the Joint Recreation Board established by this subchapter, shall
serve for a period of one year.
   (C)   The Joint Recreation Board established by this subchapter may adopt
rules for the conduct of all business within its jurisdiction.
(Res. 98-28, passed 9-9-1998)
CHAPTER 32: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Fees for emergency fire services
   
32.02   Policies and procedures
Remuneration
   
32.15   Fire Chief
   
32.16   Assistant Chief
   
32.17   Secretary
   
32.18   Engine Foreperson
   
32.19   Auxiliary Foreperson
   
32.20   First Lieutenant
   
32.21   Second Lieutenant
   
32.22   Captain
   
32.23   Runs, meetings and work nights
   
32.24   Pay schedule
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 FEES FOR EMERGENCY FIRE SERVICES.
   (A)   The Department is authorized to charge a fee to non-residents of the
village or the contracted townships who receive emergency fire services.
   (B)   The schedule of fees for emergency fire services shall be established
and maintained by the Department Chief.
   (C)   The Department shall bill the responsible party, and the Department
Chief and/or the Village Administrator is hereby authorized to execute any and
all documents and/or implement any procedures necessary to collect such fees.
   (D)   The Department Chief may waive the fee, or any portion thereof, for
good cause or when the Department Chief finds and determines that the recipient
of the emergency services is indigent or otherwise unable to pay the fee for
such services and that there is no other source of payment thereof.
   (E)   For emergency fire services rendered by the Department pursuant to an
existing mutual aid contract with another jurisdiction, the fee, if any, for
emergency fire services rendered by the Department, shall follow the fee policy
in effect for the other jurisdiction.
   (F)   Proceeds from emergency fire services fees shall be deposited in the
Department general fund or such other fund as otherwise directed by the
Department Chief.
   (G)   Fees for emergency fire services shall be charged to residents of the
village or the contracted townships under this section, except as otherwise
provided by R.C. § 3745.13, which creates liability for any person responsible
for causing or allowing an unauthorized spill, release, or discharge of
material into or upon the environment that requires emergency action to protect
the public health or safety or the environment.
   (H)   As used in this section, EMERGENCY FIRE SERVICES means a fire run in
response to a call for assistance which is attended by a member or members of
the Department.
(Ord. 05-07, passed 4-12-2005)
§ 32.02 POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Village Council adopts the policies and procedures for the Fire
Department, a copy of which is attached to Ord. 91-19 marked as Exhibit A.
   (B)   The Mayor and Fire Chief are charged with the enforcement of the
policies and procedures hereby adopted.
(Ord. 91-19, passed 1-14-1992)
REMUNERATION
§ 32.15 FIRE CHIEF.
   The remuneration for the Department’s Chief shall be as set forth by the
Village Council from time to time.
(Ord. 21-29, passed 10-26-2021)
§ 32.16 ASSISTANT CHIEF.
   The remuneration for the Department’s Assistant Chief shall be as set forth
by the Village Council from time to time.
(Ord. 21-29, passed 10-26-2021)
§ 32.17 SECRETARY.
   The remuneration for the Department’s Secretary shall be as set forth by the
Village Council from time to time.
(Ord. 21-29, passed 10-26-2021)
§ 32.18 ENGINE FOREPERSON.
   The remuneration for the Department’s Engine Foreperson shall be as set
forth by the Village Council from time to time.
(Ord. 21-29, passed 10-26-2021)
§ 32.19 AUXILIARY FOREPERSON.
   The remuneration for the Department’s Auxiliary Foreperson shall be as set
forth by the Village Council from time to time.
(Ord. 21-29, passed 10-26-2021)
§ 32.20 FIRST LIEUTENANT.
   The remuneration for the Department’s First Lieutenant shall be as set forth
by the Village Council from time to time.
(Ord. 21-29, passed 10-26-2021)
§ 32.21 SECOND LIEUTENANT.
   The remuneration for the Department’s Second Lieutenant shall be as set
forth by the Village Council from time to time.
(Ord. 21-29, passed 10-26-2021)
§ 32.22 CAPTAIN.
   The remuneration for the Department’s Captain shall be as set forth by the
Village Council from time to time.
(Ord. 21-29, passed 10-26-2021)
§ 32.23 RUNS, MEETINGS AND WORK NIGHTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      MEETING. An officer’s or firefighter’s attendance at a meeting which the
officer or firefighter is required by law to attend in order to remain
certified as a firefighter, or any meeting which such officer or firefighter is
required to attend under the rules, regulations or bylaws of the Department.
      RUN. A fire run in response to a call for assistance which is attended by
the respective officer or firefighter.
      WORK NIGHT. An officer’s or firefighter’s attendance at a meeting which
the Department completes various work tasks associated with running and
maintaining the Department’s facilities, equipment or in which training occurs.
   (B)   Runs. The remuneration for the Department’s officers and firefighters
for runs shall be as set forth by the Village Council from time to time.
   (C)   Meetings. The remuneration for the Department’s officers and
firefighters for meetings shall be as set forth by the Village Council from
time to time.
   (D)   Work nights. The remuneration for the Department’s officers and
firefighters for work nights shall be as set forth by the Village Council from
time to time.
(Ord. 21-29, passed 10-26-2021)
§ 32.24 PAY SCHEDULE.
   The remuneration for the Department’s officers and firefighters shall be
paid quarterly in January, April, July and October.
(Ord. 21-29, passed 10-26-2021)
CHAPTER 33: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Polices and procedures
   
33.02   Domestic violence
   
33.03   Proper deployment of X-26 Advanced TASER
   
33.04   Police protection to any county or municipality of the state
   
33.05   Mandatory retirement age
   
33.06   Impoundment fee for vehicles stored in connection with investigations
Auxiliary Police Unit
   
33.20   Appointment of members
   
33.21   Allocation of funds
   
33.22   Term of service
   
33.23   Qualification of members
   
33.24   Control of unit
   
33.25   Rules
   
33.26   Uniform
   
33.27   Compensation
   
33.28   Worker’s compensation
   
33.29   Non-liability
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 POLICES AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The village adopts the policies and procedures for the Police
Department, a copy of which is available for inspection during normal business
hours at the Botkins Police Department, 210 South Mill Street, Botkins, Ohio.
   (B)   The Mayor and Police Chief are charged with the enforcement of the
policies and procedures hereby adopted.
(Ord. 95-32, passed 12-10-1996)
§ 33.02 DOMESTIC VIOLENCE.
   The Police Department adopts a Domestic Violence Policy and Procedure Manual
which the Police Department will follow when responding to and handling
allegations of domestic violence and other related offenses. A copy of the
policy and procedure is attached to Ord. 95-26 marked as Exhibit A.
(Ord. 95-26, passed - -1995)
§ 33.03 PROPER DEPLOYMENT OF X-26 ADVANCED TASER.
   (A)   The Village Council adopts the policy proposed by the Police
Department for the deployment, use and operation of the TASER. A copy of the
policy is attached to and made a part of Ord. 03-36 as Exhibit A.
   (B)   The Mayor and Police Chief are charged with the enforcement of the
policy adopted under this section.
   (C)   The policy with respect to the deployment, use and operation of the
TASER shall be included as part of the policies and procedures manual for the
Police Department, initially adopted by Ord. 95-32.
   (D)   The Police Chief shall be and is hereby directed to include the policy
in connection with the deployment, use and operation of the TASER as attached
to Ord. 03-06 as part of the policies and procedures manual for the Police
Department.
(Ord. 03-36, passed 12-9-2003)
§ 33.04 POLICE PROTECTION TO ANY COUNTY OR MUNICIPALITY OF THE STATE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall be and is hereby designated as the officer
or employee of the Police Department to authorize members of the Police
Department to provide police protection and assist any county, municipal
corporation or township of the state when such political subdivision so
requests assistance.
   (B)   (1)   Provided that:
         (a)   A bona fide emergency or particular need for assistance exists
on the part of a county, municipal corporation or township within the state;
         (b)   A law enforcement call for assistance is received by the Police
Department from any chief, sheriff, officer on duty in charge of the Police
Department, or duly constituted public official; and
         (c)   The response is authorized by the Chief of Police, the village
shall provide the police protection which has been requested and will render
like services in law enforcement while so responding as it renders to the
village and the village’s inhabitants with its police equipment, emergency
vehicles and police officers.
      (2)   The Police Department shall render such assistance to a requesting
county, municipal corporation or township within the state; provided that the
territory within the village is not left unprotected or placed in jeopardy.
   (D)   Members of the Police Department, while acting in accordance with and
pursuant to this section outside the village shall be entitled to participate
in any pension indemnity fund established by the village to the same extent as
if such members were acting within the municipal corporation limits of the
village.
   (E)   Members of the Police Department shall be entitled to all rights and
benefits of R.C. §§ 4123.01 through 4123.96 while acting in accordance with and
pursuant to this section outside the village to the same extent as if such
members were acting within the municipal corporation limits of the village.
   (F)   R.C. Chapter 2744, insofar as it applies to the operation of police
departments, shall apply to the village and to members of the Police Department
when such members are providing police services pursuant to and in accordance
with this section outside the municipal corporation limits of the village.
(Res. 89-27, passed 10-10-1989)
§ 33.05 MANDATORY RETIREMENT AGE.
   (A)   The mandatory retirement of any member of the Police Department shall
be upon such member reaching the member’s sixtieth birthday.
   (B)   The age stated in each member’s application shall be conclusive as to
that member’s age.
(Ord. 11-09, passed 6-28-2011)
§ 33.06 IMPOUNDMENT FEE FOR VEHICLES STORED IN CONNECTION WITH INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The Village Council authorizes an impoundment fee for vehicles stored
on village property and connected with an investigation by the Police
Department.
   (B)   The impoundment fee is hereby set at $35 for each day the vehicle is
stored.
(Ord. 24-10, passed 2-29-2024)
AUXILIARY POLICE UNIT
§ 33.20 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS.
   There is hereby created within the Police Department an auxiliary police
unit, the members of which shall be appointed by the Mayor with the consent of
the Village Council.
(Ord. 88-4, passed 3-8-1988)
§ 33.21 ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.
   Annual funds as set forth by the Village Council from time to time are
hereby allocated for the establishment and operation of the auxiliary police
unit. This yearly budget should include payroll and training payroll.
(Ord. 88-4, passed 3-8-1988; Ord. 10-10, passed 5-25-2010)
§ 33.22 TERM OF SERVICE.
   Auxiliary police officers shall serve so long as the Mayor may direct or
until a resignation submitted by any such member is accepted by the Mayor.
(Ord. 88-4, passed 3-8-1988)
§ 33.23 QUALIFICATION OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   The members of the auxiliary police unit shall be a resident of the
state, and may not be under the age of 21 years at the time of their
appointment and such other requirements as provided by rules adopted under §
33.24.
   (B)   All members of the auxiliary police unit, prior to their appointment
by the Mayor, shall have been awarded a certificate by the executive director
of the Ohio Peace Officer Training Council, attesting to the appointee’s
satisfactory completion of an approved state, county or municipal police basic
training program in accordance with R.C. § 109.77.
   (C)   Every member, prior to his or her appointment by the Mayor, shall have
passed a physical examination given by a licensed physician not more than 60
days prior to receiving his or her appointment, showing that he or she meets
the physical requirements necessary to perform the duties of the position to
which he or she is to be appointed.
(Ord. 88-4, passed 3-8-1988)
§ 33.24 CONTROL OF UNIT.
   The Chief of Police shall be the commanding officer of the auxiliary police
unit and shall have control of the assignment, training, stationing and the
direction of work of such unit. The auxiliary police unit will have all police
powers, but shall perform only such police duties as assigned by the Chief of
Police and shall act only when in the prescribed uniform or partial uniform.
Such auxiliary member shall obey the chain of command of the Police Department.
(Ord. 88-4, passed 3-8-1988)
§ 33.25 RULES.
   The Mayor shall prescribe rules for the organization, administration,
conduct and control of the auxiliary police unit.
(Ord. 88-4, passed 3-8-1988)
§ 33.26 UNIFORM.
   The Mayor is authorized to prescribe the type of uniform or part thereof
which shall be worn by members of the auxiliary police unit. The Chief of
Police shall prescribe the time and place such uniform or portion thereof shall
be worn. Each member of the auxiliary police unit shall be furnished one
uniform by the village at the villager’s expense.
(Ord. 88-4, passed 3-8-1988)
§ 33.27 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The compensation for the village auxiliary police officers shall be
paid on an hourly basis rather than a shift basis as set forth by the Village
Council from time to time.
   (B)   Members of the auxiliary police unit shall not receive any benefits of
employment, including, but not limited to, health and welfare benefits, life
insurance benefits, contribution to the public employee retirement system, paid
sick leave, vacation time, vacation pay, paid holidays or personal time.
(Ord. 88-4, passed 3-8-1988; Res. 21-28, passed 10-26-2021; Res. 24-14, passed
2-29-2024)
§ 33.28 WORKER’S COMPENSATION.
   The village shall contract with the Industrial Commission of Ohio as
authorized by law for worker’s compensation coverage for the auxiliary police
officers in case of injury, disease or death of such an officer while engaged
in activities called for by his or her position.
(Ord. 88-4, passed 3-8-1988)
§ 33.29 NON-LIABILITY.
   This subchapter is for the protection of public peace, health, property,
safety and general welfare, and neither the village nor any agent or
representative of the village, an officer appointed under this subchapter, or
any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, or the receiver or trustee or
any agent thereof, who in good faith executes any executive order or rule
promulgated pursuant to this subchapter, shall be liable for injury or damage
sustained as a direct or proximate result of such action.
(Ord. 88-4, passed 3-8-1988)
CHAPTER 34: EMPLOYEE REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Ohio Public Employee Deferred Compensation Program
   
34.02   Employee handbook
Employee Benefits
   
34.15   Holidays
   
34.16   Personal time
   
34.17   Sick leave
   
34.18   Vacation
   
34.19   Overtime
   
34.20   Part-time and seasonal employees
   
34.21   New hires
   
34.22   Health and welfare benefits
   
34.23   Pay cycle
   
34.24   Contributions to Police and Fire Pension Fund
Compensation Ranges
   
34.35   Compensation of Village Administrator
   
34.36   Compensation of Village Marshal
   
34.37   Compensation of Assistant Marshal
   
34.38   Compensation of Service Director
   
34.39   Compensation of Administrative Assistant
   
34.40   Establishment of employee grade classifications
   
34.41   Compensation for Grade 1 employees
   
34.42   Compensation for Grade 2 employees
   
34.43   Compensation for Grade 3 employees
   
34.44   Compensation for Grade 4 employees
   
34.45   Compensation for Grade 5 employees
   
34.46   Compensation for employees with commercial pesticide license
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 OHIO PUBLIC EMPLOYEE DEFERRED COMPENSATION PROGRAM.
   (A)   The village hereby adopts a plan under the program, and shall properly
contract with any eligible employee who desires to participate in the plan. The
village’s plan shall be the uniform plan as promulgated by and as amended from
time to time by the Ohio Public Employees Deferred Compensation Board.
   (B)   The Board is hereby authorized to administer the plan under the
program, and to do all things necessary or proper for the administration of the
plan, consistent with the enabling statutes and all the rules and regulations
promulgated by the Board, whether by the Ohio Administrative Code or otherwise,
and consistent with the program adoption agreement executed by the village.
   (C)   The Mayor is hereby appointed the responsible official and is
authorized and directed by the governing body to execute the program adoption
agreement.
   (D)   Consistent with the program adoption agreement and the rules and
regulations promulgated by the Board, the proper officials, officers, employees
and agents of the village are authorized to provide the Board with any
information they may properly require for the administration of the plan under
the program.
(Res. 98-16, passed 3-10-1998)
§ 34.02 EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK.
   (A)   The employee handbook is hereby adopted as attached to Ord. 20-14 as
Exhibit A for use in the village.
   (B)   All existing personnel or employment manuals, policies, procedures,
rules, resolutions or ordinances pertaining to personnel issues are hereby
revoked.
   (C)   Future revisions of the employee handbook shall be made either by
resolution, ordinance or motion of Council. If revisions are made, the Village
Administrator shall distribute revisions to all employees. The Village
Administrator at the end of each year shall compile all revisions to the
handbook, and cause legislation to be brought before the Council officially
updating the employee handbook.
(Ord. 20-14, passed 6-9-2020)
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
§ 34.15 HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   In addition to the cash compensation to be paid village employees
under this subchapter, and except as otherwise expressly provided in this
subchapter, village employees employed on a full-time basis shall be granted
seven and one-half paid holidays, these holidays being:
      (1)   New Year’s Day;
      (2)   Thanksgiving;
      (3)   Good Friday (half-day, afternoon);
      (4)   Christmas Eve Day (half-day, afternoon);
      (5)   Memorial Day;
      (6)   Christmas Day;
      (7)   Independence Day;
      (8)   New Year’s Eve (half-day, afternoon); and
      (9)   Labor Day.
   (B)   In order for an full-time village employee to be paid for a holiday,
such employee must work the days immediately prior to and immediately
subsequent to the holiday, unless otherwise excused by the Village
Administrator.
   (C)   Any time a holiday should fall on a Saturday or Sunday, for employment
purposes, the village shall observe the holiday on the immediately subsequent
Monday.
(Ord. 00-28, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 34.16 PERSONAL TIME.
   Except as otherwise expressly provided in this subchapter, upon completion
of 90 calendar days of service in village employment, village employees
employed on a full-time basis shall be granted one personal day which may be
taken only after the individual employee has received the approval of the
Village Administrator. The employee must give the Village Administrator a
minimum notice of 24 hours of the employee’s intention to use the personal time
provided for under this subchapter.
(Ord. 00-28, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 34.17 SICK LEAVE.
   Except as otherwise expressly provided in this subchapter, village employees
employed on a full-time basis shall accrue sick leave at the rate of 15 days
per year.
(Ord. 00-28, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 34.18 VACATION.
   Except as otherwise expressly provided in this subchapter, vacation time for
village employees employed on a full-time basis shall be calculated and accrued
based on the following schedule.
   (A)   (1)   Upon the attainment of the first year of employment, the
employee shall have accrued 40 hours of vacation leave with full pay. Such
vacation leave shall accrue to the employee at the rate of three and one-third
hours each month.
      (2)   Upon the attainment of the second year of employment, the employees
shall have accrued 80 hours of vacation leave with full pay. Such vacation
leave shall accrue to the employee at the rate of six and two-third hours each
month.
      (3)   Upon the attainment of the tenth year of employment, the employee
shall have accrued 120 hours of vacation leave with full pay. Such vacation
leave shall accrue to the employee at the rate of ten hours each month.
      (4)   All vacation time must be approved by and coordinated through the
Village Administrator.
   (B)   A village employee may carry over and accumulate in a subsequent year
vacation time which does not exceed the amount of vacation time which an
employee shall have accrued during the immediately preceding calendar year. If,
at the end of any calendar year, a village employee has accumulated more than
the current calendar year’s vacation which remains unused, such employee shall
be paid for the excess accumulated vacation time at the employee’s then current
rate of hourly compensation.
(Ord. 00-28, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 34.19 OVERTIME.
   (A)   For purposes of calculating and paying overtime compensation for those
village employees who are eligible and required to receive overtime
compensation under applicable provisions of law, overtime pay shall be based on
a 40-hour work week, and an employee shall not be entitled to overtime pay
unless and until the employee has worked more than 40 hours in any one work
week period.
   (B)   Unless the Mayor, or in his or her absence, the President of the
Council or the Village Administrator, determines that an emergency situation
exists, overtime shall be limited to four hours per week, among all village
employees.
   (C)   Every effort shall be made by the Village Administrator to eliminate
all overtime through adjustments in the village employees’ work schedules.
   (D)   Employees shall be compensated at one and one-half times their hourly
rate for overtime worked or by compensatory time in lieu thereof at the option
of the individual employee.
   (E)   For purposes of calculating overtime, a WORK WEEK PERIOD is defined as
being Sunday through Saturday.
   (F)   As permitted by applicable sections of the Fair Labor Standard
Practices Act, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq., this section does not apply to
members of the Police and Auxiliary Police Departments.
(Ord. 00-28, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 34.20 PART-TIME AND SEASONAL EMPLOYEES.
   The range of hourly compensation for part-time and seasonal employees of the
village shall be and is hereby established between a minimum per hour rate at
the applicable federal and state minimum wage. Such part-time and seasonal
employees shall not be eligible to be compensated for holidays, the accrual of
personal time, accumulation of sick leave or vacation accrual. Further, part-
time and seasonal employees of the village are not eligible to receive health
and welfare benefits which the village otherwise provides to its full-time
employees.
(Ord. 00-28, passed 12-12-2000; Ord. 21-27, passed 10-26-2021)
§ 34.21 NEW HIRES.
   Upon any new hires being employed by the village, such new hires shall
complete a six-month trial period from the date of hire. Except as otherwise
approved by Village Council for those employees subject to the grade level
scale set forth in §
34.40 of this chapter, the new hires’ compensation during this six-month trial
period shall be the minimum amount of the applicable range for the grade level
of such new hires. At the completion of the trial period, such new hires shall
receive the compensation as set forth in this subchapter for the employee’s
appropriate grade level.
(Ord. 00-28, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 34.22 HEALTH AND WELFARE BENEFITS.
   (A)   The cash compensation set forth in §§
34.35 through
34.46 shall be in addition to the health and welfare benefits which are
otherwise provided to full-time village employees, as determined by Village
Council from time to time.
   (B)   An employee’s contribution for the employee’s health insurance premium
shall be 10% per pay period for any employee desiring health insurance,
including those plans which include dependents or family.
   (C)   (1)   If an employee desires health insurance for the employee or his
or her dependents, pursuant to R.C. § 3917.04, the employee shall, in writing,
authorize the premium amount to be deducted from each paycheck to the employee
pursuant to the village’s regular pay cycle.
      (2)   DEPENDENT, as used in this section refers to either the spouse of
the employee or all children of the employee, separately or exclusively.
      (3)   FAMILY, as used in this section refers to the employee’s spouse and
children, jointly and in combination with each other.
   (D)   Employee contributions towards premiums will increase by 2% on the
anniversary of the health insurance policy renewal until 20% contribution is
reached.
(Ord. 00-28, passed 12-12-2000; Ord. 11-12, passed 9-27-2011)
§ 34.23 PAY CYCLE.
   The cash compensation due to village employees shall be paid according to
the regular pay cycle of the village, as established by the Village Council
from time to time. The pay cycle of the village is on an every other week basis
resulting in 26 pay days for village employees.
(Ord. 00-28, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 34.24 CONTRIBUTIONS TO POLICE AND FIRE PENSION FUND.
   (A)   Council has determined to treat 10.75% of the mandatory contributions
by the employees who are members of the Ohio Police and Fire Pension Fund as a
tax-deferred employee salary reduction.
   (B)   Council has determined to treat 11.50% of the mandatory contributions
by the employees who are members of the Ohio Police and Fire Pension Fund as a
tax-deferred employee salary reduction.
   (C)   Council has determined to treat 12.25% of the mandatory contributions
by the employees who are members of the Ohio Police and Fire Pension Fund as a
tax-deferred employee salary reduction.
   (D)   Said tax-deferred contributions paid through a payroll reduction, even
though designated as employee contributions for state law purposes, are being
paid by the Council in lieu of said contributions by the employee.
   (E)   Said tax-deferred contributions will not be included in the gross
income of the employees for tax reporting purposes, that is, for federal or
state income tax withholding taxes, until distributed from the Ohio Police and
Fire Pension Fund.
   (F)   Said tax-deferred contributions will be included in the gross income
of the employees, for employment tax purposes, as the contributions are made to
the Ohio Police and Fire Pension Fund.
   (G)   Said employees shall not be entitled to any option of choosing to
receive the contributed amounts directly instead of having them paid by the
Council to the Ohio Police and Fire Pension Fund.
(Res. 13-18, passed 6-25-2013)
COMPENSATION RANGES
§ 34.35 COMPENSATION OF VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR.
   The range of annual compensation of the Village Administrator shall be and
is hereby set by Council and payable according to the regular pay cycle of the
village.
(Ord. 00-28, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 34.36 COMPENSATION OF VILLAGE MARSHAL.
   The range of annual compensation of the Village Marshal shall be and is
hereby set by Council and payable according to the regular pay cycle of the
village.
(Ord. 00-28, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 34.37 COMPENSATION OF ASSISTANT MARSHAL.
   The range of annual compensation of Assistant Marshal shall be and is hereby
set by Council and payable according to the regular pay cycle of the village.
(Ord. 00-28, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 34.38 COMPENSATION OF SERVICE DIRECTOR.
   The range of hourly compensation of the Service Director shall be and is
hereby set by Council.
(Ord. 00-28, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 34.39 COMPENSATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT.
   The range of compensation for the Administrative Assistant shall be and is
hereby set by Council. The Administrative Assistant position is a part-time
position with an annualized average work week of 25 hours. The Administrative
Assistant shall not be eligible to be compensated for holidays as otherwise
authorized by §
34.15, personal time as otherwise authorized by §
34.16, accumulation of sick leave as otherwise authorized by §
34.17 or vacation accrual as otherwise authorized by §
34.18. Further, the Administrative Assistant shall not be eligible to receive
health and welfare benefits which the village otherwise provides to its full-
time employees.
(Ord. 00-28, passed 12-12-2000; Ord. 10-01, passed 2-9-2010)
§ 34.40 ESTABLISHMENT OF EMPLOYEE GRADE CLASSIFICATIONS.
   The following grade levels of employment are hereby established within the
village.
   (A)   Grade 1. This grade shall consist of those village employees who have
not obtained a license for the operation of a water or sewer plant.
   (B)   Grade 2. This grade shall consist of those village employees who have
obtained either one Class I license for the operation of either a water or
sewer treatment plant.
   (C)   Grade 3. This grade shall consist of those village employees who have
obtained either one Class II license for the operation of a water or sewer
plant or a Class I license in each of the fields of water and sewer field
operations.
   (D)   Grade 4. This grade shall consist of those village employees who have
obtained one Class I license for the operation of either a water or sewage
treatment plant and one Class II license for the operation of either a water or
sewage treatment plant. The two licenses referred to in this grade level must
be in separate fields.
   (E)   Grade 5. This grade shall consist of those village employees who have
obtained two Class II licenses, one for the operation of a water plant and the
other for the operation of a sewage treatment plant.
(Ord. 00-28, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 34.41 COMPENSATION FOR GRADE 1 EMPLOYEES.
   The range of hourly compensation for Grade 1 employees shall be and is
hereby set by Council.
(Ord. 00-28, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 34.42 COMPENSATION FOR GRADE 2 EMPLOYEES.
   The range of hourly compensation for Grade 2 employees shall be and is
hereby set by Council.
(Ord. 00-28, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 34.43 COMPENSATION FOR GRADE 3 EMPLOYEES.
   The range of hourly compensation for Grade 3 employees shall be and is
hereby set by Council.
(Ord. 00-28, passed 12-12-2000; Ord. 21-27, passed 10-26-2021)
§ 34.44 COMPENSATION FOR GRADE 4 EMPLOYEES.
   The range of hourly compensation for Grade 4 employees shall be and is
hereby set by Council.
(Ord. 00-28, passed 12-12-2000; Ord. 21-27, passed 10-26-2021)
§ 34.45 COMPENSATION FOR GRADE 5 EMPLOYEES.
   The range of hourly compensation for Grade 5 employees shall be and is
hereby set by Council.
(Ord. 00-28, passed 12-12-2000; Ord. 21-27, passed 10-26-2021)
§ 34.46 COMPENSATION FOR EMPLOYEES WITH COMMERCIAL PESTICIDE LICENSE.
   (A)   Employees who hold a current and valid state commercial pesticide
license shall be paid an additional amount of pay per hour worked as set forth
by the Village Council from time to time.
   (B)   Eligible employees who acquire the state commercial pesticide license
in the future shall be made eligible for the additional amount of pay upon
producing appropriate paperwork and passing test score results.
   (C)   If an employee acquires a state commercial pesticide license but
allows it to lapse without renewing, misses any mandatory continuing education
associated with the renewal of said license, or makes cause to have the license
suspended by the state, the additional amount of pay will be revoked. The
employee’s new pay will be the current pay at time of nullification of license
minus $0.50.
(Ord. 12-14, passed 5-8-2012)
CHAPTER 35: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Deposit of public money
   
35.02   Tax assessments fee
   
35.03   Credit card policy
   
35.04   Village Administrator as central purchaser
   
35.05   State Cooperative Purchasing Program
Lodging Tax
   
35.15   Definitions
   
35.16   Levy of tax; rate
   
35.17   Consumer to pay tax; collection and reporting of tax by vendor
   
35.18   Records
   
35.19   Monthly returns by vendor; payments
   
35.20   Late penalty
   
35.21   Sale of entire business; successor liabilities
   
35.22   Tax paid by consumer
   
35.23   Vendor to collect tax; rebate prohibited
   
35.24   Filing reports and returns
Income Tax Code
   
35.35   Income Tax Code
Funds
   
35.45   Petty Cash Fund
   
35.46   FEMA Ice Fund
   
35.47   Scrap Tire Grant Fund
   
35.48   Water Pollution Control Loan Fund
   
35.49   Refuse Fund
   
35.50   Local Fiscal Recovery Fund
   
35.51   Stormwater Fund
   
35.52   Library Fund
   
35.53   Enforcement and Education Fund
   
35.54   FEMA Windstorm Fund
   
35.55   Drug Abuse Receipt Fund
   
35.56   Capital Improvement Issue Two Fund
   
35.57   Philip Sheets Family Botkins Branch Library Fund
   
35.58   Continuing Professional Training Fund
 
   
35.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 DEPOSIT OF PUBLIC MONEY.
   (A)   The village hereby establishes a policy permitting the deposit of
village funds less than $1,000 not to exceed three business days next following
the day of receipt.
   (B)   In order to safeguard the funds, all funds not deposited in the
village bank account shall be retained in the village safe located in the
Village Administration Building.
(Ord. 00-14, passed 10-10-2000)
§ 35.02TAX ASSESSMENTS FEE.
   (A)   Any real estate tax assessments imposed by the village for delinquent
utility accounts, nuisance abatement and the like shall include a $50 fee for
administrative costs incurred by the village.
   (B)   The Utility Clerk and the Fiscal Officer are hereby authorized to
assess the administrative fee set forth herein for all real estate tax
assessments imposed by the village.
   (C)   Any real estate tax assessment for the repair of curbs and/or
sidewalks will be considered exempt from this administrative fee.
(Ord. 20-31, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 35.03 CREDIT CARD POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. This section is established in order to document the policies
and procedures required for the holders of the village’s credit cards. It is
further established to:
      (1)   Ensure that procurement with village credit cards is accomplished
in accordance with the village’s ordinance and administrative procedures;
      (2)   Ensure appropriate internal controls are established within each
department using the cards so that they are only used for authorized purposes;
      (3)   Ensure that the village bears no legal liability from inappropriate
use of credit cards;
      (4)   Provide a convenient and yet adequate source of funding for
employees who must procure for the village in venues wherein established
accounts with the vendor may not be readily available; and
      (5)   This section is intended to comply with the mandates of Sub HB 312
enacted by the 132nd General Assembly, being codified in part as R.C. § 717.31.
   (B)   Obtaining a credit card.
      (1)   The village’s credit card policy is through U.S. Bank.
      (2)   Visa is the platform.
      (3)   Credit limits of $30,000 have been established for each card.
      (4)   Two credit cards are available for use by the Village
Administrator, Fiscal Officer, Fire Chief, Police Chief and Service Director.
      (5)   Any of the above employees who utilize a credit card must request
such card from the Fiscal Officer or Village Administrator or his or her
appointed designee, and must sign a statement acknowledging that he or she has
read the credit card policy, understands it and agrees to abide by it.
      (6)   All credit cards must be signed out on a log maintained by the
Fiscal Officer before authorization is given to utilize the card.
      (7)   Credit cards should be possessed by the above mentioned employees
for no more than one day for internet purchases, purchases from retail outlets
and for emergency items or for no more days than required for the length of
travel.
   (C)   Credit card usage guidelines.
      (1)   The village’s credit card usage should primarily consist of the
following types of activities:
         (a)   Internet purchases of items that are not readily available
through a normal vendor;
         (b)   Purchases from retail outlets where the village does not
maintain a regular account;
         (c)   Travel related expenses for employees attending conferences,
meetings and seminars; and
         (d)   Emergency items ordered by phone, mail or internet, generally
from vendors with whom the village does not have an established account or that
require advanced payment.
      (2)   The credit card shall not be used for personal purchases, cash
advances, cash withdrawals, alcoholic beverages, tips or cash refunds.
      (3)   The village’s regular purchase order policy and procedures must be
followed for all credit card purchases.
      (4)   Total dollar amount each authorized card user may incur as part of
any one individual transaction is $2,000, unless prior approval is obtained
from the Fiscal Officer.
      (5)   No purchases, except for restaurant charges should include sales
tax. Tax exempt forms are available at the village’s administration office.
      (6)   When overnight stays are required, a tax exempt form should be
acquired prior to leaving. This form should be presented to the hotel upon
arrival when registering.
   (D)   Receipt documentation.
      (1)   Those authorized to use a credit card are required to maintain
itemized receipts for credit transactions. The collection of receipts is
necessary to substantiate the items purchased.
      (2)   Receipts must show individual items purchased, not just the total
charged. This also ensures that no sales tax is included in the total.
      (3)   Charges without proper receipts are unsubstantiated and cannot be
audited. Therefore, all charges must have documentation showing item(s)
purchased, cost and account to be charged.
      (4)   Undocumented purchases or purchases that are not documented by an
itemized receipt will become the personal liability of the person making the
charge.
      (5)   An original receipt for each purchase made with a credit card must
be forwarded to the Fiscal Officer or his or her designee once the purchase is
complete or once the individual has returned from travel.
      (6)   For online purchases, the receipt may be in the form of a printed
order confirmation.
(Ord. 19-40, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 35.04 VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR AS CENTRAL PURCHASER.
   (A)   The Village Administrator is hereby designated as the purchasing agent
for all offices, departments, divisions, boards and commissions of the village,
and the Village Administrator shall make all contracts, purchase supplies or
materials, and provide labor for any work of the village in the manner provided
by R.C. § 731.141.
   (B)   The Village Administrator shall be, and is hereby authorized to
promulgate written rules and procedures to be followed by all village officers
and employees relative to the requisitioning of supplies, materials and work
for their respective offices, departments, divisions, boards or commissions.
(Ord. 97-39, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 35.05 STATE COOPERATIVE PURCHASING PROGRAM.
   (A)   The Village Administrator hereby requests authority in the name of the
village to participate in state contracts which the Department of
Administrative Services, Office of State Purchasing has entered into and the
Office of Cooperative Purchasing has distributed for the purchase of supplies,
services, equipment and certain other materials pursuant to R.C. § 125.04.
   (B)   The Village Administrator is hereby authorized to agree in the name of
the village to be bound by all contract terms and conditions as the Department
of Administrative Services, Office of Cooperative Purchasing prescribes. Such
terms and conditions may include a reasonable annual membership fee to cover
the administrative costs which the Department of Administrative Services incurs
as a result of the village’s participation in the contract. Further, the
Village Administrator does hereby agree to be bound by all such terms and
conditions and to not cause or assist in any way the misuse of such contracts
or make contract disclosures to non-members of the co-op for the purpose of
avoiding the requirements established by R.C. § 125.04.
   (C)   The Village Administrator is hereby authorized to agree in the name of
the village to directly pay the vendor, under each such state contract in which
it participates for items it receives pursuant to the contract, and the Village
Administrator does hereby agree to directly pay the vendor.
(Res. 22-09, passed 3-22-2022)
LODGING TAX
§ 35.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSUMER. The person to whom lodging by a hotel is or is to be furnished
pursuant to any sale.
   HOTEL. Every establishment kept, used, maintained, advertised or held out to
the public to be a place where sleeping accommodations are offered to guests,
in which five or more rooms are used for the accommodation of such guests,
whether such rooms are in one or several structures.
   PERSON. Includes individuals, receivers, assignees, trustees in bankruptcy,
estates, firms, partnerships, associations, joint-stock companies, joint
ventures, clubs, societies, corporations and combinations of individuals of any
form.
   SALE and SELLING. All transactions occurring within the village, occurring
on and after January 1, 2017, by which lodging by a hotel is or is to be
furnished to the transient guest.
   TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The person appointed to administer the lodging tax
ordinance or the person executing the duties of the Tax Administrator.
   TRANSIENT GUESTS. Persons occupying a room or rooms for sleeping
accommodations for less than 30 consecutive days.
   VENDOR. The person by whom lodging is or is to be furnished by a hotel
pursuant to any sale.
(Ord. 16-24, passed 12-13-2016)
§ 35.16 LEVY OF TAX; RATE.
   An excise tax is hereby levied on each sale made in the village at the rate
of 4% of the price involved in each sale. Said tax is levied pursuant to R.C.
§§ 5739.08 and 5739.09. The funds collected pursuant to this tax shall be for
the use of the General Fund of the village.
(Ord. 16-24, passed 12-13-2016)
§ 35.17 CONSUMER TO PAY TAX; COLLECTION AND REPORTING OF TAX BY VENDOR.
   The tax imposed by §
35.16 shall be paid by the consumer to the vendor, and each vendor shall
collect from the consumer, as a trustee for the village, the full and exact
amount of tax payable on each sale, in the manner and at the times provided as
follows.
   (A)   If the price is, at or prior to the sale, paid in currency passed from
hand to hand by the consumer or his or her agent to the vendor or his or her
agent, the vendor or his or her agent shall collect the tax with and at the
same time as the price.
   (B)   If the price is otherwise paid or to be paid, the vendor or his or her
agent shall, at or prior to the sale, charge the tax imposed by §
35.16 to the account of the consumer, which amount shall be collected by the
vendor from the consumer in addition to the price. Such sale shall be reported
on and the amount of the tax applicable thereto shall be remitted with the
return for the period in which the sale is made, and the amount of the tax
shall become a legal charge in favor of the vendor and against the consumer.
(Ord. 16-24, passed 12-13-2016)
§ 35.18 RECORDS.
   (A)   Each vendor shall keep complete and accurate records of sales,
together with a record of the tax collected thereon, which shall be the amount
due under this chapter, and shall keep all invoices and other pertinent
documents. Such records and other documents shall be preserved for a period of
four years, unless the Tax Administrator, in writing, consents to their
destruction within that period, or by order requires that they be kept longer.
   (B)   The Tax Administrator, or any employee authorized by the Tax
Administrator, is hereby authorized to examine the books, papers, records and
federal tax returns of any vendor or other person for the purpose of verifying
the accuracy of any return made or, if no return was made, to ascertain the tax
due under this chapter. Every such vendor, supposed vendor, or other person is
hereby directed and required to furnish, upon written order by the Tax
Administrator, the means, facilities and opportunity for making such
examinations and investigations as are hereby authorized.
   (C)   The Tax Administrator is hereby authorized to order any person
reasonably believed to have knowledge of the facts to appear before him or her
and may examine such person, under oath, concerning any sale which was or
should have been returned for taxation or any transaction tending to affect
such sale, and for this purpose, may compel the production of books, papers,
records and federal tax returns and the attendance of all persons before him or
her, whether as parties or witnesses, whenever he or she reasonably believes
such persons have knowledge or such income or information pertinent to such
inquiry.
(Ord. 16-24, passed 12-13-2016)
§ 35.19 MONTHLY RETURNS BY VENDORS; PAYMENTS.
   Each vendor shall, on or before February 10, 2017, and on or before the
tenth day of each month thereafter, make and file a return for the preceding
month, on forms prescribed by the Tax Administrator, showing the receipts from
sales; the amount of tax due from the vendor to the village for the period
covered by the return; the amount of tax required to be collected by the vendor
from the consumer by application of the rate specified in §
35.16, and such other information as the Tax Administrator deems necessary for
the proper administration of this chapter. The Tax Administrator may extend the
time for making and filing returns and may remit all or any part of amounts or
penalties which may become due under this subchapter; and may adopt rules and
regulations relating thereto. Such return shall be filed by mailing the same to
the Tax Administrator, together with payment of such amount of tax shown to be
due thereon.
(Ord. 16-24, passed 12-13-2016)
§ 35.20 LATE PENALTY.
   If all or any portion of the tax levied by §
35.16 is not paid by the time required under §
34.19, there shall be added to the amount of any such unpaid tax a penalty of
10% thereof for each month or portion thereof that the same remains due and
unpaid.
(Ord. 16-24, passed 12-13-2016)
§ 35.21 SALE OF ENTIRE BUSINESS; SUCCESSOR LIABILITIES.
   If any person liable for the tax levied by §
35.16 sells his or her business or stock thereof or quits his or her business,
the tax and penalty imposed by or pursuant to this chapter on sales made prior
to that time shall become due and payable immediately, and such person shall
make a final return within 15 days after the date of selling or quitting the
business. His or her successor shall withhold a sufficient amount of the
purchase money to cover the amount of such tax and penalties due and unpaid
until former owner produces a receipt from the Tax Administrator showing that
the taxes and penalties have been paid, or a certificate indicating that no
taxes are due. If the purchaser of the business or stock fails to withhold
purchase money, he or she shall be personally liable for the payment of the
taxes and penalties accrued and unpaid during the operation of the business by
the former owner.
(Ord. 16-24, passed 12-13-2016)
§ 35.22 TAX PAID BY CONSUMER.
   No consumer shall fail or refuse to pay the full and exact tax as required
by this chapter or refuse to comply with any section thereof.
(Ord. 16-24, passed 12-13-2016)
§ 35.23 VENDOR TO COLLECT TAX; REBATE PROHIBITED.
   No vendor shall fail to collect the full and exact tax as required by this
chapter, or refund, remit or rebate to a consumer, either directly or
indirectly and, by whatsoever means, any of the tax levied by §
35.16, or make in any form of advertising, verbal or otherwise, any statements
which might imply that the vendor is absorbing the tax, or paying the tax for
the consumer by an adjustment of prices, or selling at a price including the
tax, or rebating the tax in any other manner.
(Ord. 16-24, passed 12-13-2016) Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.24 FILING REPORTS AND RETURNS.
   No person, including any officer of a corporation or employee of a
corporation having control or supervision of or charged with the responsibility
of filing returns, shall fail to file any return or report required to be filed
by §
35.19, and/or file or cause to be filed any incomplete, false or fraudulent
return, report or statement or aid or abet another in the filing of any false
or fraudulent return, report or statement.
(Ord. 16-24, passed 12-13-2016) Penalty, see §
35.99
INCOME TAX CODE
§ 35.35 INCOME TAX CODE.
   The village’s Income Tax Code is hereby adopted by reference. A full copy of
the code can be found in the village offices.
(Ord. 15-20, passed 12-8-2015; Ord. 18-04, passed 2-13-2018)
FUNDS
§ 35.45 PETTY CASH FUND.
   (A)   A Petty Cash Fund for use by the Village Administrator is hereby
established.
   (B)   The amount in the Fund at any one time shall not exceed $50, and at
all times, the amount of cash in the Fund plus the receipts for expenditures
therefrom shall total the sum of $50.
   (C)   The Village Administrator shall be responsible for the accounting of,
deposits to and withdrawals from the Fund.
   (D)   The initial deposit into the Fund and all reimbursements thereafter
shall be made from the General Fund of the village.
(Ord. 98-24, passed 5-19-1998)
§ 35.46 FEMA ICE FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a FEMA Ice Fund for the
purposes of receiving FEMA funds.
   (B)   The Fiscal Officer is hereby authorized to take any actions necessary
to effectuate the purpose of this section.
(Res. 05-10, passed 4-12-2005)
§ 35.47 SCRAP TIRE GRANT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a Scrap Tire Grant Fund for
the purposes of receiving scrap tire grant monies.
   (B)   All Scrap Tire Grant Fund monies are pass-through dollars only. The
Ohio EPA only awards money to public entities and not private companies. The
role of the village is as facilitator of the grant. Therefore, the village only
disperses state money to Boomerang after certain requirements in the scrap tire
grant application are met. No local taxpayer dollars are involved in this
relationship.
   (C)   The Fiscal Officer is hereby authorized to take any actions necessary
to effectuate the purpose of this section.
(Ord. 14-14, passed 7-29-2014)
§ 35.48 WATER POLLUTION CONTROL LOAN FUND.
   There is hereby created and established a Water Pollution Control Loan Fund
for the purposes of receiving WPCLF funds.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 1-26-2010)
§ 35.49 REFUSE FUND.
   (A)   The Fiscal Officer shall establish a Refuse Fund.
   (B)   The Fiscal Officer shall consult with the State Auditor regarding
approval of this Fund.
   (C)   The Fiscal Officer is directed to employ said Fund for those funds and
accounts in the possession of the village which are not derived from general
property tax and which are to be employed for execution of refuse collection by
the County Solid Waste District.
(Res. 16-25, passed 12-13-2016)
§ 35.50 LOCAL FISCAL RECOVERY FUND.
   The Fiscal Officer is hereby authorized to establish the Local Fiscal
Recovery Fund (B5) to separately account for any funds received through the
American Rescue Plan (ARP) Act of 2021, being Pub. L, 117-2, so as to be in
compliance with the Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act
(FFATA), being 31 U.S.C. §§ 6101 et seq.
(Ord. 21-20, passed 7-27-2021)
§ 35.51 STORMWATER FUND.
   (A)   The Fiscal Officer shall establish a Stormwater Fund.
   (B)   The Fiscal Officer shall consult with the State Auditor regarding
approval of this Fund.
   (C)   The Fiscal Officer is directed to employ said Fund for those funds and
accounts in the possession of the village which are not derived from general
property tax and which are to be employed for execution of stormwater
installation, maintenance and repair.
(Res.19-42, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 35.52 LIBRARY FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby is created as part of the General Fund, a special
library fund to be known as Botkins Book Fund.
   (B)   There is further created an advisory committee whose purpose shall be
to recommend the expenditures of moneys in the Fund for the purchase of books
for the Botkins Public Library.
   (C)   The members of such advisory committee shall be the same members who
are appointed and served on the advisory committee of the Botkins Public
Library.
(Ord. 82-15, passed 7-13-1982)
§ 35.53 ENFORCEMENT AND EDUCATION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Enforcement and Education Fund which
is to be administered, in all respects, according to the procedures, rules and
regulations for a special revenue fund.
   (B)   This Fund shall be funded through portions of fines imposed which are
paid by offenders of R.C. § 4511.19 and where the Police Department was
primarily responsible for the arrest of the offender.
   (C)   The Enforcement and Education Fund is established pursuant to R.C. §
4511.99.
   (D)   The Fiscal Officer is respectfully directed to take all steps
necessary for the establishment of such Fund.
(Res. 91-15, passed 8-13-1991)
§ 35.54 FEMA WINDSTORM FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a FEMA Windstorm Fund for the
purposes of receiving FEMA funds.
   (B)   The Fiscal Officer is hereby authorized to take any actions necessary
to effectuate the purpose of this section.
(Res. 09-03, passed 2-24-2009)
§ 35.55 DRUG ABUSE RECEIPT FUND.
   The Village Council hereby establishes a Drug Abuse Receipt Fund into which
all monies received by the Fiscal Officer shall be deposited and from which all
monies disbursed for the purpose of drug prevention shall be accounted.
(Ord. 00-11, passed 7-11-2000)
§ 35.56 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT ISSUE TWO FUND.
   There is hereby established a Capital Improvement Issue Two Fund in
connection with the State of Ohio Issue II Grant Program.
(Ord. 98-17, passed 3-10-1998)
§ 35.57 PHILIP SHEETS FAMILY BOTKINS BRANCH LIBRARY FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Philip Sheets Family Botkins Branch
Library Fund.
   (B)   The monies contained in the Fund are authorized to be used for the
sole benefit of the operation of the library as the Council of the village
deems fit.
   (C)   All interest, dividends and revenue earned on the monies of the Fund
established by this section shall be paid into and credited to this Fund.
(Ord. 02-09, passed 5-14-2002)
§ 35.58 CONTINUING PROFESSIONAL TRAINING FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a Continuing Professional
Training Fund for the purpose of receiving funds.
   (B)   The Fiscal Officer is hereby authorized to take any actions necessary
to effectuate the purpose of this section.
(Res. 08-06, passed 3-11-2008)
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever fails to comply with an order issued pursuant to §
35.18 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day’s continued
violation is a separate offense.
   (B)   Whoever violates §§
35.23 or
35.24 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(Ord. 16-24, passed 12-13-2016)
CHAPTER 36: PLANS AND POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Natural Gas Aggregation Plan
   
36.02   Electric Power Aggregation Plan
   
36.03   County Natural Hazards Mitigation Plan
   
36.04   Solid Waste Management Plan
Motor Vehicle Towing Policy
   
36.15   Towing as result of parking violations
   
36.16   Towing as result of motor vehicle being used in commission of felony or
recovered stolen motor vehicle
   
36.17   Towing motor vehicles from private property
   
36.18   Mandatory seizure as required by state law
   
36.19   Other violations
Social Media Policy
   
36.30   Definition
   
36.31   Purpose
   
36.32   Vision
   
36.33   Ownership and maintenance of village-owned accounts
   
36.34   Guidelines and limitations for all users
Public Records Policy
   
36.45   Definition
   
36.46   Organization and maintenance
   
36.47   Requests and responses
   
36.48   Costs for obtaining copies of public records
   
36.49   E-mail as public records
   
36.50   Failure to respond to public records request
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01 NATURAL GAS AGGREGATION PLAN.
   (A)   The Village Council hereby adopts a Natural Gas Aggregation Plan of
Operation and Governance for the village pursuant to PUCO regulations.
   (B)   A copy of said Plan is attached to Res. 15-17 and marked as Exhibit A
and is made part of this section.
(Res. 15-17, passed 11-10-2015)
§ 36.02 ELECTRIC POWER AGGREGATION PLAN.
   (A)   The Village Council adopts an Electric Power Aggregation Plan of
Operation and Governance for the village pursuant to PUCO regulations.
   (B)   A copy of said Plan is attached to Res. 15-16 and marked as Exhibit A
and is made part of this section.
(Res. 15-16, passed 11-10-2015)
§ 36.03 COUNTY NATURAL HAZARDS MITIGATION PLAN.
   The County Natural Hazards Mitigation Plan as prepared by County Emergency
Management Agency, and approved by the County Commissioners, is hereby approved
and adopted.
(Ord. 18-09, passed 4-10-2018; Ord. 23-22, passed 6-14-2023)
§ 36.04 SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   The village approves the Solid Waste Management Plan.
(Res. 10-16, passed 7-27-2010; Res. 23-25, passed 6-28-2023)
MOTOR VEHICLE TOWING POLICY
§ 36.15 TOWING AS RESULT OF PARKING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   An officer of the Police Department must first issue a parking
citation. No motor vehicle is to be towed without a citation.
   (B)   A reasonable attempt shall be made to contact the owner of the motor
vehicle for removal. Normal database sources will be used to locate the owner
of the motor vehicle, for example, phone book, city/county directory, CMI and
LEADS.
   (C)   If the owner of the motor vehicle cannot be contacted, a towing
service shall be contacted for the removal of the motor vehicle and the
following procedure shall apply.
      (1)   The officer authorizing the tow will be responsible for making/
arranging verbal notification to the owner.
      (2)   The Police Chief will determine how many unsuccessful attempts to
contact the owner of the motor vehicle to be towed constitutes a reasonable
attempt to locate. All attempts shall be logged accordingly.
      (3)   If a motor vehicle owner is not located prior to the completion of
the towing officer’s shift, paperwork related to the tow will be copied and
forwarded to the following shift for follow-up attempts to contact.
      (4)   If further attempts to locate the owner of the motor vehicle are
unsuccessful within an eight-hour shift, paperwork will be transferred to the
Police Chief who will send a certified letter to the registered owner of the
motor vehicle at the owner’s last known address.
   (D)   On tows at which the owner of the motor vehicle being towed is
present, the tow shall be logged accordingly.
   (E)   The contents of the motor vehicle being towed shall be inventoried.
   (F)   Information on the motor vehicle being towed, including make, model,
license plate information and registration number shall be obtained.
Confirmation shall be made when the vehicle identification number (VIN) of the
motor vehicle being towed matches the VIN on the motor vehicle’s registration.
(Res. 00-24, passed 2-13-2001)
§ 36.16 TOWING AS A RESULT OF MOTOR VEHICLE BEING USED IN COMMISSION OF A
FELONY OR RECOVERED STOLEN MOTOR VEHICLE.
   The following procedures shall be used when towing is a result of a motor
vehicle being used in the commission of a felony or a recovered stolen motor
vehicle:
    (A)   Process the motor vehicle for evidence;
   (B)   Inventory the contents of the motor vehicle;
   (C)   Call for towing service to remove the motor vehicle;
   (D)   Gather information as set forth in §
36.15(F); and
   (E)   Follow the procedure for owner notification as described in §
36.15(C).
(Res. 00-24, passed 2-13-2001)
§ 36.17 TOWING MOTOR VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Unless the motor vehicle is an “abandoned junk vehicle”, as defined in
R.C. § 4513.63, the owner of the real property must notify the towing service
of the owner’s choice.
   (B)   If requested, an officer of the Police Department shall stand by to
prevent the breach of the peace.
   (C)   If the owner of the motor vehicle to be towed is not present,
notification to the owner must be made pursuant to §
36.15(B) and (C).
   (D)   Information on the towed motor vehicle shall be logged pursuant to §
36.15(F).
   (E)   If the motor vehicle is abandoned pursuant to R.C. § 4513.63, the
Police Department shall call a towing service to remove the motor vehicle and
logged accordingly.
(Res. 00-24, passed 2-13-2001)
§ 36.18 MANDATORY SEIZURE AS REQUIRED BY STATE LAW.
   (A)   If the driver of the motor vehicle is also the owner of the motor
vehicle and is charged with driving under the influence (D.U.I.) as a second or
subsequent offense pursuant to R.C. § 4511.99, the motor vehicle shall be towed
and seized according to law.
   (B)   If the driver of the motor vehicle is also the owner of the motor
vehicle and is charged with operation of a motor vehicle while under license
suspension pursuant to R.C. § 4507.02(D)(2), the motor vehicle shall be towed
and seized according to law.
   (C)   If the driver of the motor vehicle is also the owner of the motor
vehicle and is charged with operating the motor vehicle under a FRA suspension
pursuant to R.C. § 4507.02(B)(1), the motor vehicle shall be towed and seized
according to law.
   (D)   If an individual is being charged with unlawful entrustment pursuant
to R.C. § 4507.203, the motor vehicle shall be towed and seized according to
law.
   (E)   If the driver of the motor vehicle is not the owner of the motor
vehicle and is charged with the offenses referenced in divisions (A), (B), (C)
and (D) above, and the motor vehicle is legally parked, the vehicle shall not
be towed.
   (F)   If the driver of the motor vehicle is not the owner of the motor
vehicle and is charged with offenses referred to in divisions (A), (B), (C) and
(D) above, and the motor vehicle is illegally parked or creates a public hazard
in the opinion of an officer of the Police Department, the owner of the motor
vehicle shall be notified pursuant to §
36.15(B) and (C). Only after a reasonable attempt has been made to notify the
owner of the motor vehicle should the motor vehicle be towed.
(Res. 00-24, passed 2-13-2001)
§ 36.19 OTHER VIOLATIONS.
   If a motor vehicle is stopped for any other violation and the individual
operating the motor vehicle is taken into custody and the vehicle is legally
parked, then the motor vehicle shall not be towed. If the motor vehicle is
illegally parked or creates a public hazard in the opinion of an officer of the
Police Department, the motor vehicle shall be towed only after reasonable steps
have been made to notify the owner of the motor vehicle in accordance with §
36.15(B) and (C).
(Res. 00-24, passed 2-13-2001)
SOCIAL MEDIA POLICY
§ 36.30 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SOCIAL MEDIA. User-generated content presented via the Internet. SOCIAL
MEDIA platforms such as Facebook, MySpace, Twitter and the like provide zero
publishing costs and access to anyone with Internet capabilities.
(Ord. 10-07, passed 3-30-2010)
§ 36.31 PURPOSE.
   The village has decided that social media is relevant technology for modem
communication. The village will never utilize social media as its only form of
communication, but, rather, use it as a tool to complement its already
established statutory and voluntary communication outlets. The village believes
that certain citizens are more comfortable communicating through and receiving
information from a social media platform.
(Ord. 10-07, passed 3-30-2010)
§ 36.32 VISION.
   Social media provides an interactive capability that allows residents and
supporters of the community to come together and share information, praise and
criticism. The real-time aspect of social media lends itself to crisis
situations, event reminders and general current events. For this same reason,
the village realizes that the social media platform is not well suited for all
types of discussion. Complex issues or new issues that the village faces should
be avoided since human interaction is always best to resolve questions and
conflicts. Some material, for both practical and legal considerations, may be
inappropriate for this medium. Finally, in providing a platform such as this,
the village recognizes that criticism may arise from time to time. Posts that
offer thoughtful criticism of the organization and its initiatives, and not
individuals, are welcome and shall not be removed or altered except as provided
for in this subchapter.
(Ord. 10-07, passed 3-30-2010)
§ 36.33 OWNERSHIP AND MAINTENANCE OF VILLAGE-OWNED ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   The village will utilize one central account with desired social media
networks. Individual departments and employees, including the Fire and Police
Departments, will utilize the central account to convey desired communication.
   (B)   Management of social media accounts and initiatives shall lie
primarily within the realm of the Village Administrator.
   (C)   A limited number of employees shall have access to social media
accounts and passwords and permission to post as the village.
   (D)   Elected officials and other employees are not to post, without advance
approval, to the village pages as representatives of the organization.
   (E)   Other village staff members may request that authorized staff post a
message from the village on their behalf.
   (F)   Posts to village pages/accounts from employees’ personal accounts are
permitted. Employees are encouraged to disclose their relationship/employment
with the village.
   (G)   The village will strive to share information honestly and openly to
receive comments and feedback with an open mind in a spirit of collaboration.
   (H)   The village will not post untruthful and purposefully inaccurate
information. If an inadvertent inaccuracy is posted, a correction will be
published as soon as possible.
   (I)   The village will not edit others’ posts.
   (J)   At all times, employees shall use good judgment when posting.
Employees shall refrain from posts that may be interpreted as offensive,
obscene, demeaning or inflammatory. Confidential information shall not be
posted.
   (K)   At times, employees may determine other means/tools are more
appropriate ways to respond to citizen/fan posts or may determine that it is
best not to respond to a post at all.
   (L)   In general, individual complaints, concerns or service requests will
not be addressed via social media.
   (M)   Staff members shall resist the temptation to engage in back-and-forth
conversation regarding topics that are complex, controversial, heated or
otherwise sensitive.
   (N)   Village employees, in consultation with the Village Administrator,
will determine when an issue raised by others has reached a critical mass that
requires a village response on the account.
(Ord. 10-07, passed 3-30-2010)
§ 36.34 GUIDELINES AND LIMITATIONS FOR ALL USERS.
   (A)   The conversation shall remain civil and respectful always.
   (B)   Inaccurate information posted by non-employees may be addressed and
corrected on a factual basis only.
   (C)   Personal attacks, vulgar language, discriminatory or inflammatory
posts by others are strongly discouraged. If a post is determined to be in
violation of this policy, such posts may be removed.
   (D)   Elected officials may not post as “Village of Botkins” and are
discouraged from discussing campaigns, issues and other political matters on
village accounts.
   (E)   Campaigning on behalf of political candidates or in support or
opposition to issues is discouraged.
   (F)   Political candidates are encouraged to establish their own fan pages
and social media accounts and are discouraged from using village accounts,
pages and the like.
   (G)   Repeated violations to this policy may result in removal of access to
the service.
   (H)   This social media policy shall be revised as needed. Posts to the
village social media accounts shall constitute acceptance of this policy.
(Ord. 10-07, passed 3-30-2010)
PUBLIC RECORDS POLICY
§ 36.45 DEFINITION.
   The village, in accordance with R.C. § 149.43 of the Ohio Revised Code,
defines records as including the following: any document of paper, electronic
(including, but not limited to, e-mail), or other format that is created or
received by, or comes under the jurisdiction of a public office that documents
the organization, functions, policies, decisions, procedures, operations or
other activities of the office. All records of the village are public unless
they are specifically exempt from disclosure under the Ohio Revised Code.
(Ord. 09-19, passed 12-29-2009)
§ 36.46 ORGANIZATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   It is the policy of the village that, as required by state law, records will
be organized and maintained so that they are readily available for inspection
and copying (see § 36.49). Record retention schedules are to be updated
regularly and posted prominently.
(Ord. 09-19, passed 12-29-2009)
§ 36.47 REQUESTS AND RESPONSES.
   Each request for public records should be evaluated for a response using the
following guidelines.
   (A)   Identification of public records request. Although no specific
language is required to make a request, the requester must at least identify
the records requested with sufficient clarity to allow the public office to
identify, retrieve and review the records. If it is not clear what records are
being sought, the records custodian must contact the requester for
clarification, and should assist the requestor in revising the request by
informing the requestor of the manner in which the office keeps its records.
   (B)   Method of public records request and identity of requestor. The
requestor does not have to put a records request in writing, and does not have
to provide his or her identity or the intended use of the requested public
record. It is the village’s general policy that this information is not to be
requested.
   (C)   Availability of public records for inspection and production of
copies. Public records are to be available for inspection during regular
business hours, with the exception of published holidays. Public records must
be made available for inspection promptly. Copies of public records must be
made available within a reasonable period of time. Prompt and reasonable take
into account the volume of records requested, the proximity of the location
where the records are stored and the necessity for any legal review of the
records requested.
   (D)   Time constraints for satisfying public records requests.
      (1)   Each request should be evaluated for an estimated length of time
required to gather the records. If feasible, routine requests for records
should be satisfied immediately. Routine requests include, but are not limited
to, meeting minutes (both in draft and final form), budgets, salary
information, forms and applications, personnel rosters, and the like. If fewer
than 20 pages of copies are requested or if the records are readily available
in an electronic format that can be e-mailed or downloaded easily, these should
be made as quickly as the equipment allows.
      (2)   All requests for public records must either be satisfied or be
acknowledged in writing by a public office within three business days following
the office’s receipt of the request. If a request will not be satisfied within
three business days, the acknowledgment must include the following:
         (a)   A request for clarification (if necessary); and
         (b)   An estimated cost if copies are requested.
   (E)   Denial of public records requests. Any denial of public records
requested must include an explanation, including legal authority. If portions
of a record are public and portions are exempt, the exempt portions are to be
redacted and the rest released. If there are redactions, each redaction must be
accompanied by a supporting explanation, including legal authority.
(Ord. 09-19, passed 12-29-2009)
§ 36.48 COSTS FOR OBTAINING COPIES OF PUBLIC RECORDS.
   Those seeking public records will be charged only the actual cost of making
copies, as follows.
   (A)   The charge for paper copies is $0.25 per page.
   (B)   The charge for downloaded computer files to a compact disc is $2 per
disc.
   (C)   There is no charge for documents e-mailed.
   (D)   Requesters may ask that documents be mailed to them. They will be
charged the actual cost of the postage and mailing supplies.
(Ord. 09-19, passed 12-29-2009)
§ 36.49 E-MAIL AS PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      DOCUMENTS IN ELECTRONIC MAIL FORMAT. Records as defined by R.C. § 149.43
when their content relates to the business of the office. E-mail is to be
treated in the same fashion as records in other formats and should follow the
same retention schedules.
   (B)   Private e-mail accounts holding public records. Records in private e-
mail accounts used to conduct public business are subject to disclosure, and
all employees or representatives of the village are instructed to retain their
e-mails that relate to public business and to copy them to their business e-
mail accounts and/or to the village’s records custodian.
   (C)   Duties of the records custodian in managing private account e-mails.
The records custodian is to treat the e-mails from private accounts as records
of the public office, filing them in the appropriate way, retaining them per
established schedules, and making them available for inspection and copying in
accordance with R.C. § 149.43, also known as the Public Records Act.
(Ord. 09-19, passed 12-29-2009)
§ 36.50 FAILURE TO RESPOND TO A PUBLIC RECORDS REQUEST.
   A public office recognizes the legal and non-legal consequences of failure
to properly respond to a public records request. In addition to the distrust in
government that failure to comply may cause, failure to comply may also result
in a court ordering the public office to comply with the law and to pay the
requester’s attorney’s fees and damages.
(Ord. 09-19, passed 12-29-2009)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS
      
53.   TRASH REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Water rates and charges
   
50.02   Sewer rates and charges
   
50.03   Stormwater fee
   
50.04   Capital fees
§ 50.01 WATER RATES AND CHARGES.
   The rents and charges for use of the village’s water distribution system
shall be and are hereby fixed as follows.
   (A)   The minimum rents and charges for water usage which does not exceed
6,000 gallons per calendar quarter shall be $89.55 effective January 1, 2024
and $92.23 effective January 1, 2025.
   (B)   Water usage which exceeds 6,000 gallons per calendar quarter shall be
charged at $3.77 per 1,000 gallons of usage effective January 1, 2024 and $3.88
effective January 1, 2025.
   (C)   The bulk water rate for the same period of time shall be $20 per 1,000
gallons.
(Ord. 19-37, passed 12-10-2019; Ord. 23-36, passed 12-13-2023)
§ 50.02 SEWER RATES AND CHARGES.
   The rents and charges for use of the village’s sewerage system shall be and
are hereby fixed as follows.
   (A)   For water usage which does not exceed 6,000 gallons per calendar
quarter, the minimum charge for use of the village’s sewerage system shall be
$89.55 effective January 1, 2024 and $92.23 effective January 1, 2025.
   (B)   Water usage which exceeds 6,000 gallons per calendar quarter, the
charges for use of the village’s sewerage system shall be $3.88 per 1,000
gallons of water usage effective January 1, 2024 and $3.99 effective January 1,
2025.
(Ord. 19-37, passed 12-10-2019; Ord. 23-36, passed 12-13-2023)
§ 50.03 STORMWATER FEE.
   (A)   The following stormwater fee shall be assessed to each end-user as
follows.
   (B)   A stormwater fee of $1.50 per month will be assessed to any unit
attached to the water delivery system that month for the purpose of storm
tiles, drains, and retention/detention basin maintenance and construction.
(Ord. 19-37, passed 12-10-2019; Ord. 23-36, passed 12-13-2023)
§ 50.04 CAPITAL FEES.
   The following capital fees shall be assessed to each end-user as follows.
   (A)   A capital fee of $2.50 per month will be assessed to any unit attached
to the water delivery system that month for the purpose of funding capital
improvements.
   (B)   A capital fee of $2.50 per month will be assessed to any unit attached
to the sewer system during that month for the purpose of funding capital
improvements.
(Ord. 19-37, passed 12-10-2019; Ord. 23-36, passed 12-13-2023)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Water use guidelines suggested by Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
   
51.02   Water service lines
   
51.03   Backflow contaminants
Water Regulations
   
51.15   General provisions
   
51.16   Meter reading
   
51.17   Water meters
   
51.18   Service connections
   
51.19   Fire service
   
51.20   Billing procedures
   
51.21   Repairs
   
51.22   Tampering
   
51.23   Guarantee of supply
   
51.24   Guarantee of service
   
51.25   Construction water
   
51.26   Request for inspection
   
51.27   Special water meters
   
51.28   Administrative
   
51.29   Bulk water sale policy
   
51.30   Operations and fees
Tap-In Fees
   
51.40   Water system
   
51.41   Sewer system
   
51.42   Other expenses
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 WATER USE GUIDELINES SUGGESTED BY OHIO ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY.
   (A)   The water use guidelines proposed by the Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency, as stated in its letter of July 1, 1988, are hereby accepted and
adopted within the village.
   (B)   The Public Works Director is hereby directed to monitor the water
usage within the village and to report to Council if he or she believes a water
shortage condition within the village is threatened.
(Res. 88-17, passed 7-12-1988)
§ 51.02 WATER SERVICE LINES.
   (A)   All water service lines which are installed, repaired or replaced
within the village shall be polyethylene (PE) plastic tubing for water service
lines only meeting the requirements of American Society for Testing Materials
(ASTM) D2737-83.
   (B)   Prior to covering or closing the water service line installation,
repair or replacement, the owner, agent of the owner, or contractor performing
the work, shall contact the Village Administrator to arrange for an inspection
of the water service line. The water service line shall not be covered or
closed unless and until the water service line is inspected and approved by a
representative of the village.
(Ord. 87-15, passed 11-10-1987)
§ 51.03 BACKFLOW CONTAMINANTS.
   (A)   If, in the judgment of the Superintendent of Water, an approved
backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water
system, the Superintendent of Water will give notice to the water consumer to
install such an approved device immediately. The water consumer shall, at his
or her own expense, install such an approved device at a location and in a
manner approved by the Superintendent of Water, and shall have inspections and
tests made of such approved devices as required by the Superintendent of Water.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a
private, auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public
water supply of the village may enter the supply or distributing system of said
municipality, unless such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the
method of connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the
Superintendent of Water by the Ohio.
   (C)   shall be made a matter of public record and shall be repeated as often
as the Superintendent of Water shall deem necessary.
   (D)   The Superintendent of Water or his or its duly authorized
representative shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time any
property served by a connection to the public water supply or distributing
system of the village for the purpose of inspecting the piping system or
systems thereof. On demand, the owner, lessees or occupants of any property so
served shall furnish to the Superintendent of Water any information which he or
she may request regarding the piping system or systems use on such property.
The refusal of such information, when demanded, shall, within the discretion of
the Superintendent of Water, be deemed evidence of the presence of improper
connections as provided in this section.
   (E)   The Superintendent of Water is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water service
to any property wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this
section is known to exist, and to take such other precautionary measures as he
or she may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the
public water supply distribution mains. Water service to such property shall
not be restored until such conditions shall have been eliminated or corrected
in compliance with the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 84-15, passed 11-13-1984)
WATER REGULATIONS
§ 51.15 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No physical connection shall be maintained between any other source of
water or liquid and the village water supply piping. No spigot or outlet shall
be physically connected to a drain or sewer or be submerged. The proper cross-
connection prevention device shall be installed in accordance with the village
and OEPA regulations.
   (B)   There shall be no electrical ground of A/C and/or D/C power source
permitted on the water system or any private extension thereof.
   (C)   A permit must be obtained by the property owner or a plumber engaged
by the property owner in order to receive a service line connection. At this
time, the Administrator will check the property records to verify that all
assessments levied against the property have been paid prior to issuing the
permit. If the assessment and other charges levied have been paid, a permit
will then be issued; if not, the property owner must pay the assessments and
other charges levied before a permit is issued. Should a renewal of a service
be desired, a permit will be issued by the Administrator after it is determined
that there are no outstanding unpaid bills; then an employee of the village
will restore the service. If the connection is made without first obtaining a
proper permit, water service will be discontinued until a valid permit is
obtained.
   (D)   The owner of the property may have a service discontinued by request
to the village. The meter will be turned off or removed and water shut off at
the curb by the village. Should it not be possible to obtain a final reading, a
final invoice will be estimated on the time elapsed since the last reading and
the estimated consumption as determined by the village. Under no circumstances
shall the closing statement be less than the minimum rate prorated for the time
the water was used. When service is re-established, a reconnection charge will
be levied. Charges will be prorated to the nearest month.
   (E)   All employees of the village, designated for the purpose with proper
identification, are authorized to enter, at reasonable hours, into any house,
building or place supplied with water from or connected to, or traversed by
water mains of the village, to examine bibs, pipes, meters, cisterns,
reservoirs, tanks or other apparatus for the purpose of ascertaining the
quantity of water consumed or supplied or for placing or taking away any meter,
instrument, pipe fitting or other material belonging to the village or for any
other reasonable purpose in connection with the water supply system.
(Ord. 20-03, passed 2-25-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.16 METER READING.
   (A)   All meters will be read quarterly.
   (B)   If the meter reader is unable to obtain a reading because a meter is
out of order, the meter will be replaced and the amount of water consumed will
be estimated.
   (C)   If the meter is damaged due to negligence on the part of the property
owner, the cost of replacement shall be assessed to the properties
corresponding water/sewer bill.
   (D)   The village shall make a charge for any service requiring a special
trip to the property, such as temporary shut-offs. Only representatives of the
village are authorized to install, disconnect or remove water meters from a
service. Any meter not properly removed, which becomes lost or not recoverable,
shall be chargeable to the property owner. No person without a permit from the
village is allowed to turn a stop chock, hydrant or valve owned by the village
or on public right-of-way, other than plumbers, excepting, however, members of
the Fire Department in the performance of their duties. In case trouble occurs
between the main and the curb stop, or in the meter, the village should be
called. If the trouble is beyond the curb stop, it should be shut off and a
plumber called at the property owner’s expense.
   (E)   Service branches are installed at the expense of the property owner
who is held responsible at all times for any leakage that may occur between the
curb stop and the building. The village has the right to replace any water
meter it deems necessary.
   (F)   All meters must be accessible at all times. Failure to comply with
this rule will be cause for discontinuing service which will not be resumed
until the trouble has been remedied. This rule shall apply to meters in meter
pits which are covered with dirt or other materials or that are filled with
matter or gas, or where passage to meters is blocked so that the meters are not
accessible.
   (G)   The village will require each water service to have its own separate
accessible municipal shut-off valve and box. All shut-off valves must be clear
and accessible at all times so that water may be shut off as necessary by the
Public Works Department. No valve box shall be covered with concrete, asphalt
or other materials. The shut-off valve and box shall be constructed pursuant to
village standards and the site selected by the village. The valve box will be
located prior to the meter. The valve box and shut-off are the responsibility
of the owner to maintain. No person other the authorized village personnel are
permitted to turn water on or off at the shut-off valve. If current services do
not comply with this subchapter, they will need to be retrofitted to meet
village standards. The property owner will have 60 days from notification to
comply. If they do not comply within 60 days, service will be terminated for
that property or properties.
   (H)   The owner of the property may request turn-off in order to permanently
or temporarily terminate charges.
   (I)   A list of all current charges, fees and rates for the various water
services performed are on file in the village office. These charges, fees and
rates are subject to amendment by the village and are not to be construed as
being fixed for an indefinite period of time.
   (J)   Bills rendered to landlords having multiple establishments or
apartment units should be computed where the minimum billing shall not be less
than the minimum rate times the number of units.
(Ord. 20-03, passed 2-25-2020)
§ 51.17 WATER METERS.
   (A)   No meter shall be set until the final inspection has been made and
approved, and an application for service has been filed. It is unlawful for
anyone to move into a residence until after final village inspection, approval
and acceptance for metering.
   (B)   Any meter violation shall be considered as tampering with the water
system and shall carry the penalty as outlined by law.
   (C)   No extension, alterations or repairs shall be made to any water pipes
or fixtures within the public rights-of-way between meter and main line except
by a plumber and with the notification to the village.
   (D)   Meters are furnished to consumers by the village upon payment of the
utility connect fee and tap fee. Meters for connections larger than one inch
will be provided by the village, however the cost of the meter shall be
included in the tap-in fee. The tap fee varies in accordance with the size of
the meter. A schedule of such charges is available at the village office.
   (E)   Each service one and one-half inch diameter or larger shall be
provided with a by-pass. The by-pass must be a valve so that it can be sealed
to prevent its use by anyone except village personnel.
   (F)   The village will test and correct any meter which is registering
incorrectly without the consent of the owner, or upon his or her request, will
test any of its meters, and guarantee its accuracy against any overcharge
within 2%. Proper refund shall be made if the test shows the customer has been
overcharged, going back no further than one year. In order to protect the
village against the unreasonable demands for this service, a $25 charge shall
be made if the test shows the meter to be registering properly. If a meter is
found to be under-registering, the owner can be billed for under charges for up
to one year prior to and preceding the determination of under-registering.
(Ord. 20-03, passed 2-25-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.18 SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   There shall be one single-family residence on a service branch and
each branch shall be metered.
   (B)   Each housing unit, business or commercial structure shall have a
separate meter location as follows:
      (1)   Outside the structure and one foot outside the public road right-
of-way of the property to be served. No obstruction shall be placed on the
cover at any one time; or
      (2)   Inside the structure with a remote.
   (C)   The village may require properties or premises not so equipped to
install additional service lines, meter pits or remote meters at the expense of
the property owner.
   (D)   Meters, remote readers, meter pits and privately-owned hydrants or
plugs and all attachments must be kept in complete repair and kept accessible
by the owner or occupant, and protected from frost without expense to the
village.
   (E)   The owner must also provide curb stops and have the pipes so arranged
that the water may be drawn from them whenever there is danger of freezing. It
shall be the duty of the property owner to keep the meter pit at grade with the
surface. The owner shall conform to any written instructions from the village
as to grade of the meter pit and shall indemnify the village against any
damages or expense occasioned it by reason of the meter pit being above or
below grade. The village will make minor repairs and adjustments to the meter
pit; provided, however, that the cost of any repairs made necessary by
negligence or abuse on the part of the owner shall be charged to the property
owner.
(Ord. 20-03, passed 2-25-2020)
§ 51.19 FIRE SERVICE.
   (A)   Application for fire protection connections shall be made in writing
to the village and no connection may be made without written permission from
the same.
   (B)   Fire service connections may be made by any registered plumber with
the approval of the village.
   (C)   No person except an authorized agent of the Fire Department or the
village shall use any valve, hydrant or fixture in association with a water
main. In case of fire or inspection, the Fire Department shall have the right
to use any hydrant, hose, pipe or other fixture in association with a water
main. The Fire Department shall notify the Village Administrator of any use for
maintenance or training purposes.
   (D)   Developers of new subdivisions, or parts thereof, shall install all
water mains, fire hydrants, valves, fittings and the like, at their expense.
All work performed shall be in accordance with plans and specifications
approved by the village.
   (E)   No private fire hydrants shall be set without the inspection and
approval of the village.
   (F)   Private fire service inside buildings shall be the dry-type or wet
systems equipped with approved fire detector meters. Construction of the
private interior fire service cannot proceed until the plans have been approved
by the village and written permission received.
(Ord. 20-03, passed 2-25-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.20 BILLING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Water service charges will be billed for any lot, parcel of land,
building, enterprise, residence or premises; provided an active water service
connection or device drawing water from the village water system.
   (B)   Billing for water use and distribution and sewerage services shall be
due quarterly, computed as of the end of each calendar quarter as of the end of
March, June, September and December of each calendar year.
   (C)   Owners of property shall be held responsible for water used on their
premises and tenants may put water accounts in their own name; however, if a
bill remains unpaid in a reasonable amount of time after a tenant closes their
account, the property owner will be held responsible through payment of the
bill or assessment of the bill of the properties taxed through the County
Auditor’s Office.
   (D)   Landlords must notify the village in the case of a change in tenant
for tax purposes. Failure to do so shall result in termination of water and
sewer services.
   (E)   Account delinquency shall be just cause for terminating services,
which will be resumed only upon full payment of the delinquent charges.
Responsibility of payment rests with the current property owner. It is the
responsibility of the prospective property owner to inquire of possible
delinquent charges which may be assumed upon ownership. This information will
be given upon request to the village. If services are terminated for non-
payment, all delinquent charges shall be submitted to the County Auditor for
assessment against the property within 14 days.
   (F)   The first month of each quarter are January, April, July and October.
Water meters will be read the week prior to the start of a new quarter. Bills
will be issued on or about the first day of the new quarter. Bills shall be due
on or about two weeks following bill issuance.
   (G)   Bills not paid prior to the due date indicated shall be considered
past due resulting in a late fee of 10% of the balance being added to the
account.
   (H)   Final notices shall be issued two weeks following the due date for
outstanding bills. Services shall be terminated if payment is not received in
full within two weeks of the issuance of final notices.
   (I)   Extensions may be signed at the village office at the discretion of
the Village Administrator or Fiscal Officer. An extension shall be made payable
no later than two weeks prior to the next regularly scheduled meter reading.
   (J)   Water service charges will be based upon readings taken from meters
installed in accordance with the village specifications, or in such manner and
by such method as may be practicable in the light of the conditions and
attendant circumstances of the case, as determined by the village.
   (K)   Water meters shall normally be read every quarter. In the event the
meter is not read, the average of the preceding quarter shall be used in
determining the quarterly user charge. If so, the bill will be marked
“estimate”. The bill for the month following reading of the water meter shall
include an adjustment for the quarter.
   (L)   Should the village be unable to render quarterly bills because of
labor shortage or some other deficiency, the bill may be rendered for a shorter
or longer period, but at the same quarterly rate.
   (M)   If the owner/tenant disputes a water bill, he or she shall contact the
Village Administrator before the due date, to arrange a meeting to resolve any
billing disputes. The village shall not discontinue water service if a meeting
has been requested prior to the due date and is pending with the Village
Administrator and owner/tenant.
   (N)   The receipt by the village of a check for the payment of a water bill
that is not honored by the bank will be considered non-payment, and the village
will proceed with discontinuance of water service and other collection
activities as set forth in this section. If an owner within a 12-month period
provides the village with two dishonored checks, the owner in the future must
pay his or her water bill in cash or by certified funds or money order, until
further notified by the village. Checks that are not honored shall result in a
$35 fee added to the outstanding balance.
   (O)   In the collection of water bills, the Fiscal Officer or his or her
designee has the discretion to certify the amount not paid, together with any
penalties and other charges, to the County Auditor and/or collect the past due
amounts together with penalty and charges by actions of law in the name of the
village from an owner who is liable to pay the bill.
   (P)   The Village Administrator has the discretion to arrange a payment
agreement with an owner for past due bills in the event of extraordinary
circumstances.
   (Q)   Payments received via mail with a postmark after the due date shall be
considered late. Late fees will be applied according to the provisions
contained in this subchapter.
   (R)   Postdated checks will be accepted, however a $15 holding fee will be
applied to the account. Checks postdated after the due date will be considered
late and late fees will apply.
   (S)   A one-time credit may be requested for watering of lawns on lots with
new primary structure construction only. The credit will be on the sewer side
of the utility bill only.
   (T)   A one-time credit for sewerage in the case of a water leak may be
issued, if the leak is proven not to be entering into the sewer system.
(Ord. 20-03, passed 2-25-2020)
§ 51.21 REPAIRS.
   (A)   The village shall have the right to shut off the water for repairs,
extensions, tests, improvements or whenever necessary and will not be
responsible or held liable for any accidents or damage (including, but not
limited to, rust damage) which may result from interruption of service.
Whenever possible, as time permits, all customers will be notified prior to
such temporary discontinuance of service.
   (B)   The village shall maintain all lines on dedicated easements or rights-
of-way. No maintenance will be done on water services that do not lie within
easements or dedicated rights-of-way. These lines shall be maintained by the
owner. Service shall be discontinued until repairs have been completed to the
satisfaction of the village.
   (C)   If a break or leak occurs in any service line between the main line
and the meter pit and/or curb stop, the village will repair this at its own
expense as soon as possible. The owner will be required to pay all costs of
repair to a service line on his or her property (meter pit and/or curb stop to
structure). The village shall not be responsible for breakage of pipes or
valves occurring during removal or installation of meters where such breakage
is due to old or faulty plumbing. Notice to replace inferior pipe will
constitute reasonable care. Failure to repair leaks, remove obstructions
preventing access to the meter pit or make payments of charges for work done by
the village for such purposes, when notified to do so, will be sufficient cause
for the village to enter the street and close the corporation stop which shall
not be reopened until the cause for the closing has been remedied.
   (D)   All charges for repairs to meters damaged by freezing or any other
cause must be paid when the next bill comes due.
   (E)   Damage to water meters resulting from improper connections between
boilers and furnaces or other heaters shall be the responsibility of the owner
and the cost of repairs will be charged to him or her.
   (F)   No extensions, alterations or repairs shall be made to any water pipes
or fixtures between the meter pit and main line except by a plumber and with
the approval of the village.
(Ord. 20-03, passed 2-25-2020)
§ 51.22 TAMPERING.
   (A)   No person other than an authorized agent of the village may connect to
any of its water lines, tamper with, or remove any meter or parts thereof or
any seal, or insert a meter by-pass without permission of the village under
penalty provided in the Ohio Revised Code. A tampering violation is also due
cause for having water service discontinued.
   (B)   If the village finds that a meter seal has been broken, a connection
installed ahead of the meter, any by-pass inserted, or there is evidence that
the meter has been tampered with, the water will be shut off and will not be
turned on again until the owner of the premises pays for the estimated quantity
of water which has been used and not registered, and in addition, shall pay a
fee for turning on the water. The criminal laws of the state provide severe
penalties for tampering with water meters, meter seals, valves and other
devices in the water system. The penalties herein provided are in addition to
the penalties provided by the criminal laws of the state and the payment of
penalties herein mentioned will not in any way relieve any person from
prosecution.
   (C)   No person shall unlawfully secure a supply of water through a
corporation stop, curb stop, valve or other device after it has been closed for
the violation of any of the rules and regulations without first having secured
the necessary permit from the village.
(Ord. 20-03, passed 2-25-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Tampering with utility equipment, see R.C. § 4933.18
§ 51.23 GUARANTEE OF SUPPLY.
   (A)   The village does not guarantee any fixed pressure or a continuous
supply of water, but will, in an emergency, try to notify affected customers.
   (B)   Persons or entities using steam boilers, gas engines or other
equipment, or whose operation depends on a supply of water direct from the
service pipe, should have in mind the preceding rule and provide storage of
sufficient water to operate a reasonable length of time.
(Ord. 20-03, passed 2-25-2020)
§ 51.24 GUARANTEE OF SERVICE.
   Every reasonable effort will be attempted to restore service should an
interruption of service occur. The village shall not be liable for any
accidents or damage resulting from interruption of service or conditions caused
by the design limitations of the various systems. Temporary shutdowns of the
water supply by the village may be necessary for improvements or repairs.
Whenever possible, and as time permits, all customers will be notified prior to
shut down.
(Ord. 20-03, passed 2-25-2020)
§ 51.25 CONSTRUCTION WATER.
   (A)   Water used during construction shall be metered and billed to the
applicant for water service at the water rates in effect. A water meter shall
be installed after application is made for service and the corresponding tap-in
fees and water service connection charges paid.
   (B)   Should a meter not be installed, the monthly minimum rate will be
charged plus estimated usage. Any damage to the water meter during the
construction period will be the responsibility of the water service applicant.
(Ord. 20-03, passed 2-25-2020)
§ 51.26 REQUEST FOR INSPECTION.
   Requests for inspection or water tap shall be made 24 hours in advance of
inspection or tapping. All work must be visible when the inspection is
performed.
(Ord. 20-03, passed 2-25-2020)
§ 51.27 SPECIAL WATER METERS.
   (A)   Customers who use large amounts of water for various watering
activities or swimming pools may realize savings in charges by having a
separate meter installed to measure usage. Since sanitary sewer service charges
are based upon the amount of water consumed, adjustments to sewage charges can
be made by obtaining a special meter from the village office. No adjustment
will be made unless this special meter is used. There will be a deposit for the
use of this meter. Applications for a separate meter must be directed to the
Village Administrator and should be submitted to the Fiscal Officer at the
Village Administration Office. Residents who have a permanent swimming pool
installed may purchase a meter from the village to receive this adjustment.
   (B)   Secondary meters may be purchased from the village at cost for usage
in lawn/plant watering. These meters shall be charged the quarterly minimum
plus usage for water, but will not have charges for sewerage. Residents who
purchase secondary meters must request shut-off in order to avoid minimum
charges during times in which they are not used.
(Ord. 20-03, passed 2-25-2020)
§ 51.28 ADMINISTRATIVE.
   (A)   The prices to be charged for water furnished by the Water Department
to all customers situated outside the village limits of the village are hereby
fixed at 150% the rate charged to consumers situated in the village, unless
grandfathered in at a lower rate.
   (B)   Billing shall be rendered quarterly on the utility bill and shall be
payable in person at the village office, mailed to the village office or
otherwise allowed through the advancement of the village’s utility billing
system.
   (C)   Bills may be paid using cash, check or money order. The village
maintains the right to allow payment through credit/debit cards at a future
date.
(Ord. 20-03, passed 2-25-2020)
§ 51.29 BULK WATER SALE POLICY.
   (A)   This policy is needed to set pricing and costs for the sale of bulk
water to haulers.
      (1)   Administrative fee: $50;
      (2)   Rate per every 1,000 gallons: $20;
      (3)   Minimum charge is for 1,000 gallons: ;
      (4)   Charged by 1,000-gallon increments: ;
      (5)   After hours fee-per hour: $50; and
      (6)   The above-mentioned fees are cumulative per day.
   (B)   Regular loading hours are Monday through Friday, 7:30 a.m. to 4:00
p.m. with appointment made prior. After hours are any others upon approval of
the Public Works Director. After hours loading charge will be charged for any
part of an hour.
   (C)   Once the water leaves the village appurtenance, the village is no
longer liable or responsible and it is no longer considered potable water by
EPA standards.
   (D)   All invoices are payable and due 30 days from the invoice date.
(Ord. 20-03, passed 2-25-2020; Ord. 23-36, passed 12-13-2023)
§ 51.30 OPERATIONS AND FEES.
Check holding fee                                        $15
Check returned fee                                       $35
Damage fire hydrant                                      Cost
Damage meter repair                                      Cost
Late fee                                                 10%
Maintenance of special fire flow meters                  $25 per quarter
Meter reread (if original correct)                       $25 reading
Meter test (if meter accurate)                           $50 plus cost
Turn-off at main (as a result of a violation)            $25 plus cost
Turn-off at meter pit and/or curb stop (as a result of a $50
violation or upon request)
 
(Ord. 20-03, passed 2-25-2020)
TAP-IN FEES
§ 51.40 WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   The charges for tapping-in to the village water system shall be as
follows.
      (1)   Water services having a diameter measurement one inch or less, and
including curb box, one meter, and meter fitting will have a tap-in fee of
$1,400 plus the cost of materials.
      (2)   Water services having a diameter measurement greater than one inch
and up to two inches, and including curb box, one meter, and meter fitting will
have a tap-in fee of $1,800 plus the cost of materials.
      (3)   Water services having a diameter measurement greater than two
inches, and including curb box, one meter, and meter fitting will have a tap-in
fee of $3,000 plus the cost of materials.
   (B)   The village shall be responsible for the installation of any necessary
tap-in equipment and shall connect all water services to the village’s water
system. The village will take the service up to the curb box. The exception is
for new subdivisions, in which case the developer shall be responsible for all
utility lines in the subdivision. Tap-in fees still apply for new subdivisions.
The cost of installing a lateral connection which requires boring will be
included in this fee.
(Ord. 17-22, passed 6-27-2017; Ord. 19-38, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 51.41 SEWER SYSTEM.
   The charge for tapping in to the village sewer system shall be $400. All
materials shall be furnished by the contractor constructing the sewer lateral
or by the applicant. The contractor shall be responsible for the installation
of any necessary tap-in equipment and shall connect all sewer laterals to the
village’s sewer system. The contractor is also responsible for repairing any
damage that may occur as a result of the tap-in activity, including damage to
any roads, yards, curbs, sidewalks, or other public or private property
affected during the utility installation.
(Ord. 17-22, passed 6-27-2017)
§ 51.42 OTHER EXPENSES.
   All other costs incurred in connection with a tap-in to either the village’s
water or sewer systems described above, including the installation of any
service lines or laterals, service valves, construction of meter pits and the
like, shall be paid to the village by the applicant.
(Ord. 17-22, passed 6-27-2017)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Use of public sewers required
   
52.03   Private sewage disposal
   
52.04   Building sewers and connections
   
52.05   Use of public sewers
   
52.06   Protection from damage
   
52.07   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
52.08   Sewer surcharges and penalties
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   B.O.D. (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in parts per million by weight.
   GARBAGE. Wastes from the preparation, cooking, handling, storage, sale and
dispensing of food.
   INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGER. Any non-residential user who discharges industrial
wastes into a public sewer.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. All other wastes contributed to a public sewer as
distinct from sanitary sewage.
   MUNICIPAL WASTE WORKS. All devices and structures for collecting, pumping,
treating and disposing of municipal wastes.
   MUNICIPAL WASTES. A combination of the water-carried sanitary sewage and
industrial wastes from residential users and industrial dischargers.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or ground water.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. Wastes from the preparation, cooking, handling,
storage, sale and dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree
that all particles are carried freely under the flow conditions normally
prevailing in a public sewer, with no particle greater than one-half inch.
   PUBLIC SEWER. All facilities in which owners of abutting property have equal
usage rights, which are controlled by the village and which carry industrial
wastes and sanitary sewage from sewers to the municipal waste works.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. Any person who discharges primarily sanitary sewage into a
public sewer.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. Wastes contributed to a public sewer by reason of human
occupancy of a building.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying industrial wastes or sanitary sewage
from a building to the public sewer.
   SLUG LOAD. Any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants (B.O.D. and
the like), released in a single discharge from a single industrial discharger
of such volume or strength as to cause interference with the municipal waste
works.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that are suspended in or float on the surface of
water, municipal waste or other liquids and which are removable by laboratory
filtering.
   VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR. The Village Administrator of the Village of Botkins,
or his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
(Ord. 93-14, passed 7-13-1993)
§ 52.02 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, discharge, deposit or
permit to be discharged or deposited in an unsanitary manner upon public or
private property within the village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of
said village, any human or animal excrement, garbage, sanitary sewage,
industrial wastes or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge into any natural outlet within the
village or in any area under the jurisdiction of said village, any sanitary
sewage, industrial wastes or other polluted effluent, except where treatment
has been provided in accordance with this chapter.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sanitary sewage or industrial wastes.
   (D)   The owners of all buildings or other properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the village
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is not now
located a public sewer of the village, is hereby required at the owner’s own
expense, to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such
facilities directly with the public sewer in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter, within 90 days after the date of an official notice to do so;
provided that the public sewer is within 100 feet of the property line.
(Ord. 93-14, passed 7-13-1993) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sewer is not available under the provisions of §
52.02(D), the owner of a building shall connect the building to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of the regulations of the
County Board of Health.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit from the County Board of
Health.
   (C)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all provisions of the regulations of the County Board
of Health.
   (D)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property located
within the village and served by a private sewage disposal system, the owner
shall cause the building to be connected to the public sewer in compliance with
this chapter, and any private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and
filled with suitable material.
   (E)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facility in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the village.
(Ord. 93-14, passed 7-13-1993)
§ 52.04 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall uncover, make any connections with or openings into,
use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereto without first
obtaining a written permit from the Village Administrator.
   (B)   Any owner of a building who seeks to make any connections with,
openings into, or alterations of, a public sewer shall first file an
application for a sewer permit with the Village Administrator on any forms and
pursuant to any rules or regulations promulgated by the Village Administrator.
The application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other
information considered pertinent in the sole judgment of the Village
Administrator.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation, alteration or
extension of a public sewer, or the connection of a building therewith, shall
be borne by the owner thereof individually, or shall be assessed as provided by
the Ohio Revised Code. All such owners shall indemnify the village from any
loss or damage that may, directly or indirectly, be occasioned by the
installation, alteration or extension of, or the connection of a building with,
any public sewer.
   (D)   A separate and independent sewer shall be provided for every building;
except where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and
no independent sewer is available or able to be construed to the rear building
through an adjoining alley, courtyard or driveway, the sewer from the front
building may be extended to the rear building; and with the further exception
that two adjacent buildings may use a common sewer within the limits of the
public right-of-way. In the latter case, a separate permit shall be required
for each building.
   (E)   Old sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when,
upon examination and testing by the Village Administrator, they meet all
requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   All sewers shall be made of best quality precast plastic pipe with O-
ring rubber joints (SMSDR35).
   (G)   The size and slope of all sewers shall be subject to the approval of
the Village Administrator, but in no event shall the diameter of the sewer pipe
be less than four inches, nor the slope be less than one-eighth inch per foot.
Common sewers for more than one building and sewers for industrial dischargers
shall not be less than six inches in diameter.
   (H)   No sewer shall be laid parallel to and within three feet of any
bearing wall, which might thereby be weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to
afford protection from frost. All sewers shall be laid at uniform grade and in
straight alignment insofar as possible. Changes in direction shall be made only
with properly curved pipe and fittings.
   (I)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage or industrial wastes carried
by such drain shall be lifted by approved artificial means before being
discharged to the sewer.
   (J)   All excavations required for the installation of a sewer shall be by
open trench unless otherwise approved by the Village Administrator. Pipe laying
and backfill shall be performed in accordance with ASTM Specification C12
except that no backfill shall be placed until the Village Administrator has
inspected the work.
   (K)   All joints and connections shall be made gastight and watertight.
   (L)   The connection of all sewers into the public sewer shall be made at a
riser or “Y” branch, if such outlet is available. If the public sewer is 12
inches in diameter or less, and no properly located riser or “Y” branch is
available, the owner shall, at the owner’s expense, install a “Y” branch in the
public sewer at the location specified by the Village Administrator. Where the
public sewer is greater than 12 inches in diameter, and no properly located
riser or “Y” branch is available, a neat hole may be cut into the public sewer
to receive the sewer, with entry in the downstream direction at a 45 degree
angle. A 45 degree ell may be used to make such connection, with the spigot end
cut so as not to extend past the inner surface of the public sewer. The invert
of the sewer at the point of connection shall be at the same or at a higher
elevation than the invert of the public sewer. A smooth, neat joint shall be
made, and the connection made secure and watertight by encasement in concrete.
Special fittings may be used for the connection only when approved by the
Village Administrator. No storm or basement footer tile shall be connected,
directly or indirectly, into the public sewer.
   (M)   An applicant for a sewer permit shall notify the Village Administrator
when the sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer. The
connection shall be made under the supervision of the Village Administrator.
   (N)   All excavations for sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks and other public property disturbed in the course of the work shall
be restored in a manner satisfactory to the village.
(Ord. 93-14, passed 7-13-1993)
§ 52.05 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water or
unpolluted industrial process waters to any public sewer in violation of any
state or federal law, regulation or permit.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged
to a storm sewer or a natural outlet.
   (C)   No person shall discharge, cause to be discharged or permit the
discharge of any of the following into any public sewer:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any garbage that is not properly shredded garbage;
      (3)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
plastics, wood, tar, paunch manure or any other substance capable of causing
obstruction in the flow of the public sewer or other interference with the
proper operation of the municipal waste works;
      (4)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance;
      (5)   Any sanitary sewage or industrial wastes which do not meet any
national standards promulgated by the U.S. EPA, or any other federal
institution;
      (6)   Any sanitary sewage or industrial wastes which do not meet any
state standards promulgated by the Ohio EPA, or any other state institution; or
      (7)   Any sanitary sewage or industrial wastes which contain
concentrations of the following enumerated materials, exceeding the following
values:
Material Concentration (mg/l)
Material       Concentration (mg/l)
Arsenic        0.60
Cadmium        0.20
Chromium       6.00
Copper         4.00
Cyanide        1.40
Lead           1.40
Mercury        0.01
Nickel         9.00
Oil and grease 10.0
Zinc           13.0
 
   (D)   The discharge into the public sewers of any industrial wastes
containing critical characteristics such as: excessive temperatures, oils, fats
or grease; pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.5; or having other corrosive
properties; toxic or poisonous ingredients; excessive suspended solids;
cyanide, free acid or caustic alkaline solution; or any other constituent
critical to municipal waste collection and treatment shall be subject to the
review and approval. When preliminary treatment or control of such industrial
wastes are necessary, suitable facilities shall be constructed according to
plans approved by the village, or the village may prohibit the discharge of
said industrial wastes into the public sewer.
   (E)   Industrial dischargers shall install, at their own expense, grease,
oil and sand interceptors when such interceptors are necessary for the proper
handling of liquid wastes containing grease or oil in excessive amounts,
flammable wastes, sand and other harmful ingredients. All interceptors shall be
of a type and capacity approved by the village and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (F)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be constructed of impervious
materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature.
The interceptors shall be of substantial construction, watertight and equipped
with easily removable covers which, when bolted in place, shall be gastight and
watertight.
   (G)   Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the industrial discharger, at its own expense, in continuously
efficient operation at all times.
   (H)   The discharge into the public sewers of any waters or industrial
wastes having objectionable constituents or characteristics in excess of
standard strength sewage, as defined hereinafter, shall be subject to the
review and approval. When necessary, industrial dischargers may be required to
install a preliminary treatment system to control or remediate the
objectionable characteristics or constituents. Such preliminary treatment
system shall be constructed according to plans until such time as the
preliminary treatment system is complete and fully operational, may prohibit
the discharge of the industrial wastes into the public sewer.
   (I)   Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any waters or
industrial wastes, they shall be maintained by the industrial discharger, at
its own expense, in continuously efficient operation at all times.
   (J)   When required, an industrial discharger served by a public sewer shall
install a suitable control manhole in the sewer prior to its connection with
the public sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
industrial wastes being discharged. Such manhole, when required, shall be
accessibly and safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with
plans. The manhole shall be installed by the industrial discharger at its
expense, and shall be maintained by it so as to be safe and accessible at all
times.
   (K)   All measurements, tests and analysis of the characteristics of waters
and industrial wastes to which reference is made herein shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, as published by the American Public Health Association
upon suitable samples taken. Any samples required to be taken shall be taken
from the sewer manhole or from the nearest downstream manhole in the public
sewer to the point at which a sewer is connected.
   (L)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to prevent
any special agreement or arrangement between the village and any industrial
discharger whereby industrial wastes of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the village for treatment, subject to payment therefore by the
industrial discharger.
(Ord. 93-14, passed 7-13-1993) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.06 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of a public sewer or the municipal waste works.
(Ord. 93-14, passed 7-13-1993) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.07 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The village shall make and enforce rules and regulations, subject to
the review and approval by the Village Council, establishing the type and
characteristics of sanitary sewage, industrial wastes and other matter not
specifically covered in this chapter, which shall not be discharged into a
public sewer and the municipal waste works, and the constituents and
characteristics of industrial wastes admissible into a public sewer and the
municipal waste works only after pretreatment. Such rules and regulations shall
be subject to appeal to the Council which shall appoint three reputable and
qualified persons to investigate the appeal and agree to affirm or reject the
ruling of the village.
   (B)   The Village Administrator or such other duly authorized employees of
the village bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter upon all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, testing,
measurement and sampling in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 93-14, passed 7-13-1993)
§ 52.08 SEWER SURCHARGES AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any capital cost expenditures for improvement of, alteration to,
extension of or additions to a public sewer or the municipal waste works, shall
be borne by the residential users or industrial dischargers directly or
indirectly benefited by such improvement, alteration, extension or addition, by
assessment against those whose property abuts upon the improvement, alteration,
extension or addition, or by all residential users or industrial dischargers of
the public sewer or municipal waste works based on flow volume usage by each
such user, all as provided by the Ohio Revised Code.
   (B)   (1)   STANDARD STRENGTH SEWAGE shall be defined as that sanitary
sewage or industrial wastes containing not more than 300 mg/l of B.O.D. and 300
mg/l of S.S.
      (2)   In the event that any sanitary sewage or industrial wastes is found
to be in excess of standard strength sewage, the residential user or industrial
discharger shall pay a penalty of $0.40 per pound of B.O.D. and $0.40 per pound
of S.S., both calculated in the following formulas:
            B.O.D.    (Monthly Avg. _____ mg/l-300 mg/l) x 8.34 x
                   ____ gal. = ____lb. x $0.40 = $_____
            Suspended
            Solids:    (Monthly Avg. ____ mg/l-300 mg/l) x 8.34 x
                  ____ gal. = _____ lb. x $0.40 = $_____
      (3)   The Village Administrator shall assess residential users or
industrial dischargers for any additional fees, costs and expenses as may be
necessary due to enforcement actions and legal fees, costs and damage from slug
loads, accidental spills, bypasses, any special non-routing compliance
monitoring surveillance and analysis and/or other just cause applicable to a
residential user or industrial discharger.
   (C)   The village may, in its sole discretion, add to all sewage flow
related charges, a 50% surcharge for all residential users or industrial
dischargers outside the corporate limits of the village.
   (D)   Any industrial dischargers discharging industrial wastes estimated in
excess of 5,000 gallons per day (average), shall be required to provide an
approved flow meter to record discharges of such industrial wastes.
   (E)   The calculation of the discharge of industrial wastes and sanitary
sewage, the number of residential users and industrial dischargers, the
inflation rate, and other pertinent data shall be used to recompute sewage
charges and surcharges, and shall be based upon records from the preceding 12-
month period, adjusted for any known discrepancies.
   (F)   The sewage charges and surcharges established herein, shall be
reviewed and recomputed, if necessary, not less than once every three years.
(Ord. 93-14, passed 7-13-1993)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter, except
§
52.06, shall be served by the village with a written notice stating the nature
of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (A) of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $200 for
each violation, plus any amounts necessary to repair any damage done to the
public sewer or municipal waste works as set forth below. Each day in which any
such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the village for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the
village by reason of such violation.
   (D)   Any person violating §
52.06 shall be subject to immediate arrest and prosecution under appropriate
laws and/or ordinances.
(Ord. 93-14, passed 7-13-1993)
CHAPTER 53: TRASH REGULATIONS
Section
   
53.01   Refuse removal service
   
53.02   Rates and charges
   
53.03   Trash bins and containers; placement and removal of
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 REFUSE REMOVAL SERVICE.
   The refuse removal services regulations are hereby adopted by reference. A
full copy can be found in the village offices.
(Ord. 88-1, passed - -1988)
§ 53.02 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   The rate to purchase 30-gallon capacity bags for disposal of
solid waste are as follows:
         (a)   Unlimited bags: $14.10;
         (b)   Per bag: $2.40; and
         (c)   Recycling: $3.28.
      (2)   No 50- to 55-gallon drums, items containing Freon, auto batteries
or other hazardous materials are permitted.
   (B)   Bulk items that will not fit in the 30-gallon capacity bags can be
disposed of by purchasing tags. The cost for one tag is $5 and the number of
tags required for pickup is determined by the size of the item being disposed.
   (C)   The rate to rent a 96-gallon capacity tote provided by Republic
Services for disposal of solid waste is $14.10.
(Ord. 17-11, passed 1-31-2017) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.03 TRASH BINS AND CONTAINERS; PLACEMENT AND REMOVAL OF.
   (A)   Trash bins, totes, recycling bins and any other container designed for
residential trash pickup shall not be placed at curbside before 12:00 p.m. the
previous day to scheduled pickup. Trash bins, totes, recycling bins or any
other container designed for residential trash pickup shall be removed from
curbside no later than 8:00 p.m. the day of scheduled pickup.
   (B)   When not in use, trash bins, totes, recycling bins and any other
container designed for residential trash pickup shall be stored out of sight
from the street. The container may rest in a side or backyard but it shall be
shielded from street view.
   (C)   This section does not apply to commercial trash, commercial dumpsters
or roll-off containers.
(Ord. 13-20, passed 9-10-2013) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The penalty for violating §
53.03 shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $100. A separate offense shall
be deemed committed each day during or on which a violation continues or
occurs.
(Ord. 13-20, passed 9-10-2013)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
72.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
73.   MOTOR VEHICLE CRIMES
      
74.   EQUIPMENT AND LOADS
      
75.   BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND OFF- ROAD VEHICLES
      
76.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
77.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
78.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Compliance with order of police officer
   
70.03   Emergency vehicles to proceed cautiously past red or stop signal
   
70.04   Exceptions generally; emergency, public safety and coroner vehicles
exempt
   
70.05   Persons riding or driving animals upon roadways
   
70.06   Prohibitions against pedestrians and slow-moving vehicles on freeways
   
70.07   Use of private property for vehicular travel
   
70.08   Names of persons damaging real property by operation of vehicle to be
provided to owner
   
70.09   Limited access highways; barriers along; vehicles to enter and leave at
designated intersections
   
70.10   Through highways
   
70.11   Officer may remove ignition key
   
70.12   Removal of vehicles after accidents
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.30   Obeying traffic-control devices
   
70.31   Signal lights
   
70.32   Signals over reversible lanes
   
70.33   Ambiguous or non-working traffic signals
   
70.34   Pedestrian-control signals
   
70.35   Unauthorized signs and signals prohibited
   
70.36   Alteration, defacement, or removal prohibited
   
70.37   Unauthorized possession or sale of devices
   
70.38   Signal preemption devices; prohibitions
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Unauthorized use of a motor vehicle, see §
131.09
Statutory reference:
   Local traffic regulations, scope and authority, see R.C. § 4511.07
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Traffic law photo-monitoring devices, state regulations, see R.C. §§
4511.092 et seq.
   Uniform application and precedence of state traffic laws, see R.C. § 4511.06
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided, the definitions set forth in R.C. § 4501.01
shall apply to this Title, and the penal laws of the municipality. For the
purpose of this Title, the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR. Every self-propelled vehicle designed or used for
drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery, but having no provision for
carrying loads independently of such other vehicles, and used principally for
agricultural purposes.
   ALLEY. A street or highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of
lots or buildings in urban districts, and not intended for the purpose of
through vehicular traffic, and any street or highway that has been declared an
“alley” by the Legislative Authority of the municipality in which the street or
highway is located.
   ARTERIAL STREET. Any United States or state numbered route, controlled-
access highway, or other major radial or circumferential street or highway
designated by local authorities within their respective jurisdictions as part
of a major arterial system of streets or highways.
   BEACON. A highway traffic signal with one or more signal sections that
operate in a flashing mode.
   BICYCLE. Every device, other than a device that is designed solely for use
as a play vehicle by a child, that is propelled solely by human power upon
which a person may ride, and that has two or more wheels, any of which is more
than 14 inches in diameter.
   BUS. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than nine passengers,
and used for the transportation of persons other than in a ridesharing
arrangement, and every motor vehicle, automobile for hire, or funeral car,
other than a taxicab or motor vehicle used in a ridesharing arrangement,
designed and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory fronting upon a street or highway,
including the street or highway, between successive intersections within the
municipality, where 50% or more of the frontage between successive
intersections is occupied by buildings in use for business, or within or
outside the municipality where 50% or more of the frontage for a distance of
300 feet or more is occupied by buildings in use for business, and the
character of the territory is indicated by official traffic-control devices.
   CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE. A motor vehicle that is designed to carry nine or
fewer passengers and is operated for hire pursuant to a prearranged contract
for the transportation of passengers on public roads and highways along a route
under the control of the person hiring the vehicle and not over a defined and
regular route. “Prearranged contract” means an agreement, made in advance of
boarding, to provide transportation from a specific location in an chauffeured
limousine. The term does not include any vehicle that is used exclusively in
the business of funeral directing.
(R.C. § 4501.01(LL))
   CHILD CARE CENTER. Has the same meaning as set forth in R.C. § 5104.01.
   COMMERCIAL TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle having motive power designed or used
for drawing other vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry any load
thereon, or designed or used for drawing other vehicles while carrying a
portion of the other vehicles, or the load thereon, or both.
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every street or highway in respect to which
owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal right or
access to or from the same except at certain points only and in a manner as may
be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over the street or
highway.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   That part of a roadway at intersections ordinarily included within
the real or projected prolongation of property lines and curb lines or, in the
absence of curbs, the edges of the traversable roadway;
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere,
distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the
surface;
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this definition, there
shall not be a crosswalk where the Legislative Authority has placed signs
indicating no crossing.
   DRIVER. Any person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
   ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a “class 1 electric bicycle”, a “class 2 electric
bicycle”, or a “class 3 electric bicycle” as defined below.
      (1)   CLASS 1 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that
provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide
assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles per hour.
      (2)   CLASS 2 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that may
provide assistance regardless of whether the rider is pedaling and is not
capable of providing assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles
per hour.
      (3)   CLASS 3 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that
provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide
assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 28 miles per hour.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Emergency vehicles of municipal, township or county
departments or public utility corporations, when identified as such as required
by law, the Director of Public Safety, or local authorities, and motor vehicles
when commandeered by a police officer.
   EXPLOSIVES. Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is intended for
the purpose of producing an explosion that contains any oxidizing and
combustible units or other ingredients in such proportions, quantities, or
packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by percussion, or
by a detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause a sudden
generation of highly heated gases, such that the resultant gaseous pressures
are capable of producing destructive effects on contiguous objects, or of
destroying life or limb. Manufactured articles shall not be held to be
explosives when the individual units contain explosives in limited quantities
of such nature or in such packing that it is impossible to procure a
simultaneous or a destructive explosion of the units, to the injury of life,
limb, or property by fire, friction, concussion, percussion, or by a detonator,
such as fixed ammunition for small arms, firecrackers, or safety fuse matches.
   EXPRESSWAY. A divided arterial highway for through traffic with full or
partial control of access with an excess of 50% of all crossroads separated in
grade.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID. Any liquid which has a flash point of 70°F or less, as
determined by a tagliabue or equivalent closed cup test device.
   FREEWAY. A divided multi-lane highway for through traffic with crossroads
separated in grade and with full control of access.
   FUNERAL ESCORT VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, including a funeral hearse, while
used to facilitate the movement of a funeral procession.
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle plus the weight of any load thereon.
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way open to
the use of the public as a thoroughfare for purposes of vehicular travel.
   HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle used in snow and ice removal or road
surface maintenance, including a snow plow, traffic line striper, road sweeper,
mowing machine, asphalt distributing vehicle, or other such vehicle designed
for use in specific highway maintenance activities.
   HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SIGNAL. A power-operated traffic control device by which
traffic is warned or directed to take some specific action. The term does not
include a power-operated sign, steadily illuminated pavement marker, warning
light, or steady burning electric lamp.
   HYBRID BEACON. A type of beacon that is intentionally placed in a dark mode
between periods of operation where no indications are displayed and, when in
operation, displays both steady and flashing traffic control signal
indications.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of
two highways that join one another at, or approximately at, right angles, or
the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways that join at
any other angle might come into conflict. The junction of an alley or driveway
with a roadway or highway does not constitute an intersection unless the
roadway or highway at the junction is controlled by a traffic control device.
      (2)   If a highway includes two roadways that are 30 feet or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway constitutes a separate intersection. If both intersecting highways
include two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then every crossing of any two
roadways of such highways constitutes a separate intersection.
      (3)   At a location controlled by a traffic control signal, regardless of
the distance between the separate intersections as described in division (2) of
this definition:
         (a)   If a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk has not been designated
on the roadway within the median between the separate intersections, the two
intersections and the roadway and median constitute one intersection.
         (b)   Where a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk line is designated
on the roadway on the intersection approach, the area within the crosswalk and
any area beyond the designated stop line or yield line constitute part of the
intersection.
         (c)   Where a crosswalk is designated on a roadway on the departure
from the intersection, the intersection includes the area that extends to the
far side of the crosswalk.
   LANED HIGHWAY. A highway the roadway of which is divided into two or more
clearly marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
   LOCAL AUTHORITIES. Every county, municipal, and other local board or body
having authority to adopt police regulations under the Constitution and laws of
this state.
   LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICE. Means a device weighing less than 100 pounds
that has handlebars, is propelled by an electric motor or human power, and has
an attainable speed on a paved level surface of not more than 20 miles per hour
when propelled by the electric motor.
   MEDIAN. The area between two roadways of a divided highway, measured from
edge of traveled way to edge of traveled way, but excluding turn lanes. The
width of a median may be different between intersections, between interchanges,
and at opposite approaches of the same intersection.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle propelled or drawn by power other than muscular
power or power collected from overhead electric trolley wires, except motorized
bicycles, electric bicycles, road rollers, traction engines, power shovels,
power cranes and other equipment used in construction work, and not designed
for or employed in general highway transportation, hole-digging machinery,
well-drilling machinery, ditch-digging machinery, farm machinery, and trailers
designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage
and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or
highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per
hour or less.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle, other than a tractor, having a seat or
saddle for the use of the operator and designed to travel on not more than
three wheels in contact with the ground, including but not limited to motor
vehicles known as “motor-driven cycle”, “motor scooter”, “autocycle”, “cab-
enclosed motorcycle”, or “motorcycle” without regard to weight or brake
horsepower.
   MOTORIZED BICYCLE or MOPED. Any vehicle having either two tandem wheels or
one wheel in the front and two wheels in the rear, that may be pedaled, and
that is equipped with a helper motor of not more than 50 cubic centimeters
piston displacement that produces not more than one brake horsepower and is
capable of propelling the vehicle at a speed of not greater than 20 miles per
hour on a level surface. The terms do not include an electric bicycle.
   MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR. Any self-propelled vehicle designed for, and used by,
a person with a disability and that is incapable of a speed in excess of eight
miles per hour.
   MULTI-WHEEL AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR. A type of agricultural tractor that has
two or more wheels or tires on each side of one axle at the rear of the
tractor, is designed or used for drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery,
has no provision for carrying loads independently of the drawn vehicles or
machinery, and is used principally for agricultural purposes.
   OPERATE. To cause or have caused movement of a vehicle.
   OPERATOR. Any person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   PARKED or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle upon a street, road, alley,
highway or public ground, whether accompanied or unaccompanied by a driver, but
does not include the temporary standing of a vehicle for the purpose of and
while actually engaged in loading or loading merchandise or passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any natural person afoot. The term includes a personal delivery
device as defined in R.C. § 4511.513 unless the context clearly suggests
otherwise.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, partnership, association or corporation.
   POLE TRAILER. Every trailer or semitrailer attached to the towing vehicle by
means of a reach, pole, or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing
vehicle, and ordinarily used for transporting long or irregular shaped loads
such as poles, pipes, or structural members capable, generally, of sustaining
themselves as beams between the supporting connections.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or
to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   PREDICATE MOTOR VEHICLE OR TRAFFIC OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12, 4511.132,
4511.16, 4511.20, 4511.201, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.22, 4511.23,
4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32,
4511.33, 4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40,
4511.41, 4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.451,
4511.452, 4511.46, 4511.47, 4511.48, 4511.481, 4511.49, 4511.50, 4511.511,
4511.53, 4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.56, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60,
4511.61, 4511.64, 4511.66, 4511.661, 4511.68, 4511.70, 4511.701, 4511.71,
4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, 4511.73, 4511.763, 4511.771, 4511.78, or
4511.84;
      (2)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.17(A)(2), 4511.51(A) through (D), or
4511.74(A);
      (3)   A violation of any provision of R.C. §§ 4511.01 through 4511.76 for
which no penalty otherwise is provided in the section that contains the
provision violated;
      (4)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.214;
      (5)   A violation of a municipal ordinance that is substantially
equivalent to any section or provision set forth or described in division (1),
(2), (3), or (4) of this definition.
   PRIVATE ROAD OPEN TO PUBLIC TRAVEL. A private toll road or road, including
any adjacent sidewalks that generally run parallel to the road, within a
shopping center, airport, sports arena, or other similar business or recreation
facility that is privately owned but where the public is allowed to travel
without access restrictions. The term includes a gated toll road but does not
include a road within a private gated property where access is restricted at
all times, a parking area, a driving aisle within a parking area, or a private
grade crossing.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership used for
vehicular travel by the owner, and those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons.
   PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Any of the following:
      (1)   Ambulances, including private ambulance companies under contract to
a municipality, township, or county, and private ambulances and nontransport
vehicles bearing license plates issued under R.C. § 4503.49;
      (2)   Motor vehicles used by public law enforcement officers or other
persons sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state;
      (3)   Any motor vehicle when properly identified as required by the
Director of Public Safety, when used in response to fire emergency calls or to
provide emergency medical service to ill or injured persons, and when operated
by a duly qualified person who is a member of a volunteer rescue service or a
volunteer fire department, and who is on duty pursuant to the rules or
directives of that service. The State Fire Marshal shall be designated by the
Director of Public Safety as the certifying agency for all public safety
vehicles described herein;
      (4)   Vehicles used by fire departments, including motor vehicles when
used by volunteer firefighters responding to emergency calls in the fire
department service when identified as required by the Director of Public
Safety;
      (5)   Any vehicle used to transport or provide emergency medical service
to an ill or injured person, when certified as a public safety vehicle, shall
be considered such a vehicle when transporting an ill or injured person to a
hospital, regardless of whether such vehicle has already passed a hospital;
      (6)   Vehicles used by the Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit for the
enforcement of orders and rules of the Public Utilities Commission as specified
in R.C. § 5503.34.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property operating upon rails placed
principally on a private right-of-way.
   RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL. Any sign, signal, or device erected by authority of
a public body or official or by a railroad, and intended to give notice of the
presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine or an electric or other motor, with or
without cars coupled thereto, operated by a railroad.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory, not comprising a business district,
fronting on a street or highway, including the street or highway, where, for a
distance of 300 feet or more, the frontage is improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
   RIDESHARING ARRANGEMENT. Includes the transportation of persons in a motor
vehicle where the transportation is incidental to another purpose of a
volunteer driver, and includes arrangements known as carpools, vanpools, and
buspools.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Either of the following, as the context requires:
      (1)   The right of a vehicle or pedestrian to proceed uninterruptedly in
a lawful manner in the direction in which it, he or she is moving, in
preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching from a different
direction into its, his or her path;
      (2)   A general term denoting land, property, or the interest therein,
usually in the configuration of a strip, acquired for or devoted to
transportation purposes. When used in this context, “right-of-way” includes the
roadway, shoulders or berm, ditch, and slopes extending to the right-of-way
limits under the control of the state or local authority.
   ROAD SERVICE VEHICLE. Means wreckers, utility repair vehicles, and state,
county, and municipal service vehicles equipped with visual signals by means of
flashing, rotating, or oscillating lights.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes two or
more separate roadways, the term means any roadway separately, but not all the
roadways collectively.
   RURAL MAIL DELIVERY VEHICLE. Every vehicle used to deliver United States
mail on a rural mail delivery route.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians, and protected or marked or indicated by adequate
signs so as to be plainly visible at all times.
   SCHOOL BUS. Every bus designed for carrying more than nine passengers which
is owned by a public, private, or governmental agency or institution of
learning, and operated for the transportation of children to or from a school
session or a school function, or owned by a private person and operated for
compensation for the transportation of children to or from a school session or
a school function; provided the term does not include a bus operated by a
municipally owned transportation system, a mass transit company operating
exclusively within the territorial limits of a municipality, or within such
limits and the territorial limits of municipalities immediately contiguous to
the municipality, nor a common passenger carrier certified by the Public
Utilities Commission unless the bus is devoted exclusively to the
transportation of children to and from a school session or a school function,
and the term does not include a van or bus used by a licensed child care center
or type A family child care home to transport children from the child care
center or type A family child care home to a school if the van or bus does not
have more than 15 children in the van or bus at any time.
   SEMITRAILER. Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property
with another and separate motor vehicle so that in operation a part of its own
weight or that of its load, or both, rests upon and is carried by another
vehicle.
   SHARED-USE PATH. A bikeway outside the traveled way and physically separated
from motorized vehicular traffic by an open space or barrier and either within
the highway right-of-way or within an independent alignment. A shared-use path
also may be used by pedestrians, including skaters, joggers, users of manual
and motorized wheelchairs, and other authorized motorized and non-motorized
users. A shared-use path does not include any trail that is intended to be used
primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or other similar uses,
or any other single track or natural surface trail that has historically been
reserved for non-motorized use.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
line of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STANDING. When prohibited, means any halting of a vehicle, even momentarily,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with the directions of a police officer or traffic control device.
   STATE HIGHWAY. A highway under the jurisdiction of the Department of
Transportation, outside the limits of municipalities, provided that the
authority conferred upon the Director of Transportation in R.C. § 5511.01 to
erect state highway route markers and signs directing traffic shall not be
modified by R.C. §§ 4511.01 through 4511.79 and 4511.99.
   STATE ROUTE. Every highway which is designated with an official state route
number and so marked.
   STOP. When required, means a complete cessation of movement.
   STOP INTERSECTION. Any intersection at one or more entrances of which stop
signs are erected.
   STOPPING. When prohibited, means any halting of a vehicle, even momentarily,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with the directions of a police officer or traffic control device.
   STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way open to the
use of the public as a thoroughfare for purposes of vehicular travel.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every street or highway as provided in R.C. § 4511.65, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   THRUWAY. A through highway whose entire roadway is reserved for through
traffic and on which roadway parking is prohibited.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and
other devices, either singly or together, while using for purposes of travel
any highway or private road open to public travel.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. A flagger, sign, signal, marking, or other device
used to regulate, warn, or guide traffic, placed on, over, or adjacent to a
street, highway, private road open to public travel, pedestrian facility, or
shared-use path by authority of a public agency or official having
jurisdiction, or, in the case of a private road open to public travel, by
authority of the private owner or private official having jurisdiction.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. Any highway traffic signal by which traffic is
alternately directed to stop and permitted to proceed.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property
wholly on its own structure, and for being drawn by a motor vehicle, including
any vehicle when formed by or operated as a combination of a semitrailer and a
vehicle of the dolly type, such as that commonly known as a trailer dolly, a
vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production
materials between a local place of storage or supply and the farm when drawn or
towed on a street or highway at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour and a
vehicle designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of
storage and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a
street or highway for a distance of more than ten miles or at a speed of more
than 25 miles per hour.
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers, designed and
used to carry property.
   TYPE A FAMILY CHILD CARE HOME. Has the same meaning as set forth in R.C. §
5104.01.
   URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including any street or
highway which is built up with structures devoted to business, industry, or
dwelling houses situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of
one-quarter of a mile or more, and the character of the territory is indicated
by official traffic-control devices.
   VEHICLE. Every device, including a motorized bicycle and an electric
bicycle, in, upon, or by which any person or property may be transported or
drawn upon a highway, except that the term does not include any motorized
wheelchair, any electric personal assistive mobility device, any low-speed
micromobility device, any personal delivery device as defined in R.C. §
4511.513, any device that is moved by power collected from overhead electric
trolley wires or that is used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, or
any device, other than a bicycle, that is moved by human power.
   WASTE COLLECTION VEHICLE. A vehicle used in the collection of garbage,
refuse, trash, or recyclable materials.
(R.C. § 4511.01)
§ 70.02 COMPLIANCE WITH ORDER OF POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall fail to comply with any lawful order or direction of
any police officer invested with authority to direct, control, or regulate
traffic.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle so as willfully to elude or
flee a police officer after receiving a visible or audible signal from a police
officer to bring the person’s motor vehicle to a stop.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to comply
with an order or signal of a police officer.
      (2)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (C)(4) and (C)(5) of this section,
a violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (C)(5) of this section, a violation
of division (B) of this section is a felony and shall be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier of fact finds by proof
beyond a reasonable doubt that in committing the offense, the offender was
fleeing immediately after the commission of a felony.
      (5)   (a)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a felony and
shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier
of fact finds any of the following by proof beyond a reasonable doubt:
            1.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender was a
proximate cause of serious physical harm to persons or property.
            2.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender caused a
substantial risk of serious physical harm to persons or property.
         (b)   If a police officer pursues an offender who is violating
division (B) of this section and division (C)(5)(a) of this section applies,
the sentencing court, in determining the seriousness of an offender’s conduct
for purposes of sentencing the offender for a violation of division (B) of this
section, shall consider, along with the factors set forth in R.C. §§ 2929.12
and 2929.13 that are required to be considered, all of the following:
            1.   The duration of the pursuit;
            2.   The distance of the pursuit;
            3.   The rate of speed at which the offender operated the motor
vehicle during the pursuit;
            4.   Whether the offender failed to stop for traffic lights or stop
signs during the pursuit;
            5.   The number of traffic lights or stop signs for which the
offender failed to stop during the pursuit;
            6.   Whether the offender operated the motor vehicle during the
pursuit without lighted lights during a time when lighted lights are required;
            7.   Whether the offender committed a moving violation during the
pursuit;
            8.   The number of moving violations the offender committed during
the pursuit;
            9.   Any other relevant factors indicating that the offender’s
conduct is more serious than conduct normally constituting the offense.
   (D)   In addition to any other sanction imposed for a violation of division
(A) of this section or a misdemeanor violation of division (B) of this section,
the court shall impose a class five suspension from the range specified in R.C.
§ 4510.02(A)(5). If the offender previously has been found guilty of an offense
under this section or under R.C. § 2921.331 or any other substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, in addition to any other sanction imposed for
the offense, the court shall impose a class one suspension as described in R.C.
§ 4510.02(A)(1). The court may grant limited driving privileges to the offender
on a suspension imposed for a misdemeanor violation of this section as set
forth in R.C. § 4510.021. No judge shall suspend any portion of the suspension
under a class one suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege
required by this division.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      MOVING VIOLATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2743.70.
      POLICE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 2921.331(A) - (C), (E), (F))
Cross-reference:
   Resisting arrest, see §
136.08
§ 70.03 EMERGENCY VEHICLES TO PROCEED CAUTIOUSLY PAST RED OR STOP SIGNAL.
   (A)   The driver of any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, upon approaching a red or stop signal or any
stop sign, shall slow down as necessary for safety to traffic, but may proceed
cautiously past the red or stop sign or signal with due regard for the safety
of all persons using the street or highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.03)
§ 70.04 EXCEPTIONS GENERALLY; EMERGENCY, PUBLIC SAFETY AND CORONER VEHICLES
EXEMPT.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code, except for §§
73.01 and
73.02, do not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles, and other equipment
while actually engaged in work upon the surface of a highway within an area
designated by traffic-control devices, but apply to those persons and vehicles
when traveling to or from such work.
   (B)   The driver of a highway maintenance vehicle owned by this state or any
political subdivision of this state, while the driver is engaged in the
performance of official duties upon a street or highway, provided the highway
maintenance vehicle is equipped with flashing lights and such other markings as
are required by law and such lights are in operation when the driver and
vehicle are so engaged, shall be exempt from criminal prosecution for
violations of R.C. §§ 4511.22, 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.30,
4511.31, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.66, and 4513.02, and R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, and any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   (1)   This section does not exempt a driver of a highway maintenance
vehicle from civil liability arising from a violation of R.C. § 4511.22,
4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.33, 4511.35,
4511.66, or 4513.02 or R.C. §§ 5577.01 through 5577.09, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   This section does not exempt a driver of a vehicle who is not a
state employee and who is engaged in the transport of highway maintenance
equipment from criminal liability for a violation of R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   As used in this section, ENGAGED IN THE PERFORMANCE OF OFFICIAL DUTIES
includes driving a highway maintenance vehicle to and from the manufacturer or
vehicle maintenance provider and transporting a highway maintenance vehicle,
equipment, or materials to and from a work location.
(R.C. § 4511.04)
   (E)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4511.12, 4511.13, 4511.131, 4511.132,
4511.14, 4511.202, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25, 4511.26,
4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.34,
4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41, 4511.42,
4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59,
4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.62, 4511.66, 4511.68, 4511.681, and 4511.69, and any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, do not apply to the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle if the emergency vehicle or public
safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle and if the driver of the vehicles is giving an audible signal by siren,
exhaust whistle, or bell. This section does not relieve the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.041)
   (F)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29,
4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, and
4511.66, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, do not apply to
a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle
in accordance with R.C. § 4513.171 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. This division does not relieve a coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with
due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.042)
§ 70.05 PERSONS RIDING OR DRIVING ANIMALS UPON ROADWAYS.
   Every person riding, driving, or leading an animal upon a roadway is subject
to the provisions of this traffic code, applicable to the driver of a vehicle,
except those provisions of this traffic code which by their nature are
inapplicable.
(R.C. § 4511.05)
§ 70.06 PROHIBITIONS AGAINST PEDESTRIANS AND SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES ON FREEWAYS.
   (A)   No person, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, shall:
      (1)   As a pedestrian, occupy any space within the limits of the right-
of-way of a freeway, except: in a rest area; on a facility that is separated
from the roadway and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately
marked for pedestrian use; in the performance of public works or official
duties; as a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown of a
motor vehicle; or to obtain assistance;
      (2)   Occupy any space within the limits of the right-of-way of a
freeway, with: an animal-drawn vehicle; a ridden or led animal; herded animals;
a pushcart; a bicycle, except on a facility that is separated from the roadway
and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately marked for
bicycle use; an electric bicycle; a bicycle with motor attached; a motor-driven
cycle with a motor which produces not to exceed five brake horsepower; an
agricultural tractor; farm machinery; except in the performance of public works
or official duties.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.051)
Statutory reference:
   Designation of a freeway, see R.C. § 4511.011
§ 70.07 USE OF PRIVATE PROPERTY FOR VEHICULAR TRAVEL.
   The provisions of this traffic code do not prevent the owner of real
property, used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel by permission of
the owner and not as a matter of right, from prohibiting such use or from
requiring additional conditions to those specified in this traffic code, or
otherwise regulating such use as may seem best to the owner.
(R.C. § 4511.08)
§ 70.08 NAMES OF PERSONS DAMAGING REAL PROPERTY BY OPERATION OF VEHICLE TO BE
PROVIDED TO OWNER.
   (A)   As used in this section, MOTOR VEHICLE has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 4501.01.
   (B)   If damage is caused to real property by the operation of a motor
vehicle in, or during the, violation of any section of the Ohio Revised Code or
of any municipal ordinance, the law enforcement agency that investigates the
case, upon request of the real property owner, shall provide the owner with the
names of the persons who are charged with the commission of the offense. If a
request for the names is made, the agency shall provide the names as soon as
possible after the persons are charged with the offense.
   (C)   The personnel of law enforcement agencies who act pursuant to division
(B) of this section in good faith are not liable in damages in a civil action
allegedly arising from their actions taken pursuant to that division. Political
subdivisions and the state are not liable in damages in a civil action
allegedly arising from the actions of personnel of their law enforcement
agencies if the personnel have immunity under this division.
(R.C. § 2935.28)
§ 70.09 LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAYS; BARRIERS ALONG; VEHICLES TO ENTER AND LEAVE AT
DESIGNATED INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall cut, injure, remove, or destroy
any fence or other barrier designed and erected to prevent traffic from
entering or leaving a limited access highway without the permission of the
Director of Transportation, except in a case of emergency where life or
property is in danger. No person, firm or corporation shall cause a vehicle of
any character to enter or leave a limited access highway at any point other
than intersections designated by the Director for such purposes, except in a
case of emergency where life or property is in danger.
(R.C. § 3767.201)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3767.99(D))
§ 70.10 THROUGH HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   All state routes are hereby designated as through highways, provided
that stop signs, yield signs, or traffic-control signals shall be erected at
all intersections with such through highways by the Department of
Transportation as to highways under its jurisdiction and by local authorities
as to highways under their jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this
section. Where two or more state routes that are through highways intersect,
and no traffic-control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall
be erected at one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local
authorities having jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section.
Whenever the Director of Transportation determines on the basis of an
engineering and traffic investigation that stop signs are necessary to stop
traffic on a through highway for safe and efficient operation, nothing in this
section shall be construed to prevent such installations. When circumstances
warrant, the Director also may omit stop signs on roadways intersecting through
highways under his or her jurisdiction. Before the Director either installs or
removes a stop sign under this division, he or she shall give notice, in
writing, of that proposed action to the affected local authority at least 30
days before installing or removing the stop sign.
   (B)   Other streets or highways, or portions thereof, are hereby designated
as through highways if they are within the municipality, if they have a
continuous length of more than one mile between the limits of the street or
highway or portion thereof, and if they have stop or yield signs or traffic-
control signals at the entrances of the majority of intersecting streets or
highways. For purposes of this section, the limits of the street or highway, or
portion thereof, shall be the municipal corporation line, the physical terminus
of the street or highway, or any point on the streets or highway at which
vehicular traffic thereon is required by regulatory signs to stop or yield to
traffic on the intersecting street, provided, that in residence districts, the
municipality may by ordinance designate such street or highway, or portion
thereof, not to be a through highway and thereafter the affected residence
district shall be indicated by official traffic-control devices. Where two or
more through highways designated under this division intersect and no traffic-
control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall be erected at
one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local authorities having
jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section.
   (C)   The Department or local authorities having jurisdiction need not erect
stop signs at intersections they find to be so constructed as to permit traffic
to safely enter a through highway without coming to a stop. Signs shall be
erected at such intersections indicating that the operator of a vehicle shall
yield the right-of-way to or merge with all traffic proceeding on the through
highway.
   (D)   Local authorities, with reference to highways under their
jurisdiction, may designate additional through highways, and shall erect stop
signs, yield signs, or traffic-control signals at all streets and highways
intersecting such through highways, or may designate any intersection as a stop
or yield intersection, and shall erect like signs at one or more entrances to
the intersection.
(R.C. § 4511.65)
§ 70.11 OFFICER MAY REMOVE IGNITION KEY.
   A law enforcement officer may remove the ignition key left in the ignition
switch of an unlocked and unattended motor vehicle parked on a street or
highway. The officer removing the key shall place notification upon the vehicle
detailing his or her name and badge number, the place where the key may be
reclaimed, and the procedure for reclaiming the key. The key shall be returned
to the owner of the motor vehicle upon presentation of proof of ownership.
(R.C. § 4549.05)
§ 70.12 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES AFTER ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   If a motor vehicle accident occurs on any highway, public street, or
other property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel and if any
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property that has been damaged or spilled as
a result of the motor vehicle accident is blocking the highway, street, or
other property or is otherwise endangering public safety, a public safety
official may do either of the following without the consent of the owner but
with the approval of the law enforcement agency conducting any investigation of
the accident:
      (1)   Remove, or order the removal of, the motor vehicle if the motor
vehicle is unoccupied, cargo, or personal property from the portion of the
highway, public street, or property ordinarily used for vehicular travel on the
highway, public street, or other property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel.
      (2)   If the motor vehicle is a commercial motor vehicle, allow the owner
or operator of the vehicle the opportunity to arrange for the removal of the
motor vehicle within a period of time specified by the public safety official.
If the public safety official determines that the motor vehicle cannot be
removed within the specified period of time, the public safety official shall
remove or order the removal of the motor vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, the
Department of Transportation, any employee of the Department of Transportation,
or a public safety official who authorizes or participates in the removal of
any unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property as authorized by
division (A) of this section, regardless of whether the removal is executed by
a private towing service, is not liable for civil damages for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that results from the removal of that
unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property. Further, except as
provided in division (B)(2) of this section, if a public safety official
authorizes, employs, or arranges to have a private towing service remove any
unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property as authorized by division
(A) of this section, that private towing service is not liable for civil
damages for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that results from
the removal of that unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
         (a)   Any person or entity involved in the removal of an unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property pursuant to division (A) of this
section if that removal causes or contributes to the release of a hazardous
material or to structural damage to the roadway;
         (b)   A private towing service that was not authorized, employed, or
arranged by a public safety official to remove an unoccupied motor vehicle,
cargo, or personal property under this section;
         (c)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(d) of this section, a
private towing service that was authorized, employed, or arranged by a public
safety official to perform the removal of the unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo,
or personal property but the private towing service performed the removal in a
negligent manner;
         (d)   A private towing service that was authorized, employed, or
arranged by a public safety official to perform the removal of the unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property that was endangering public safety
but the private towing service performed the removal in a reckless manner.
   (C)   As used in divisions (A) and (B) of this section:
      HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.232.
      PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICIAL. Means any of the following:
         (a)   The sheriff of the county, or the chief of a law enforcement
agency in the municipal corporation, township, port authority, conservancy
district, or township or joint police district, in which the accident occurred;
         (b)   A state highway patrol trooper;
         (c)   The chief of the fire department having jurisdiction where the
accident occurred;
         (d)   A duly authorized subordinate acting on behalf of an official
specified in divisions (a) to (c) of this definition.
(R.C. § 4513.66)
   (D)   If a towing service is removing a motor vehicle, and the removal was
not authorized under R.C. § 4513.60, 4513.601, 4513.61, or 4513.66, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, prior to removing the motor
vehicle, the towing service shall provide a written estimate of the price for
the removal to the operator of the motor vehicle, if requested.
   (E)   The towing service shall ensure that any estimate provided under
division (D) of this section includes the fees, services to be rendered, and
destination of the vehicle.
   (F)   If a towing service fails to provide a written estimate as required by
this section, the towing service shall not charge fees for the towing and
storage of the motor vehicle that exceed 25% of any applicable fees established
by the public utilities commission in rules adopted under R.C. § 4921.25(B)(4)
or, if the vehicle was towed within a municipal corporation that has
established vehicle removal and storage fees, 25% of the fees established by
the municipal corporation.
   (G)   Any storage facility that accepts towed vehicles shall conspicuously
post a notice at the entrance to the storage facility that states the
limitation on fees established under division (F) of this section.
(R.C. § 4513.68)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.30 OBEYING TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   No pedestrian or driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
instructions of any traffic- control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code, unless at the time otherwise directed by a
police officer.
      (2)   No provision of this traffic code for which signs are required
shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the
alleged violation, an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently
legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular
section of this traffic code does not state that signs are required, that
section shall be effective even though no signs are erected or in place.
(R.C. § 4511.12(A))
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, any operator
of a commercial motor vehicle, upon approaching a scale location established
for the purpose of determining the weight of the vehicle and its load, shall
comply with any traffic control device or the order of a peace officer
directing the vehicle to proceed to be weighed or otherwise inspected.
      (2)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle, upon bypassing a scale
location in accordance with division (C) of this section, shall comply with an
order of a peace officer to stop the vehicle to verify the use and operation of
an electronic clearance device.
   (C)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle that is equipped with an
electronic clearance device authorized by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol under R.C. § 4549.081 may bypass a scale location, regardless of
the instruction of a traffic control device to enter the scale facility, if
either of the following apply:
      (1)   The in-cab transponder displays a green light or other affirmative
visual signal and also sounds an affirmative audible signal;
      (2)   Any other criterion established by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol is met.
   (D)   Any peace officer may order the operator of a commercial motor vehicle
that bypasses a scale location to stop the vehicle to verify the use and
operation of an electronic clearance device.
   (E)   As used in this section, COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE means any
combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating or an actual gross
vehicle weight of more than 10,000 pounds if the vehicle is used in interstate
or intrastate commerce to transport property and also means any vehicle that is
transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is required pursuant to
49 C.F.R. parts 100 through 180.
(R.C. § 4511.121(A) - (C), (E))
   (F)   No person shall use an electronic clearance device if the device or
its use is not in compliance with rules of the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol.
(R.C. § 4549.081(B))
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. If
the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting activity
is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the offender is
subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.12(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B) of this
section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (B)
of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender commits the offense while
distracted and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the
commission of the offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine
established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.121(D))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.081(C))
Statutory reference:
   Placing traffic-control devices on state highways, permission required, see
R.C. § 4511.10
   Traffic-control devices to conform to the state manual and specifications,
see R.C. § 4511.11
   Uniform system of traffic-control devices, see R.C. § 4511.09
§ 70.31 SIGNAL LIGHTS.
   Highway traffic signal indications for vehicles and pedestrians shall have
the following meanings:
   (A)   Steady green signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal indication
is permitted to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-turn
movement except as such movement is modified by a lane-use sign, turn
prohibition sign, lane marking, roadway design, separate turn signal
indication, or other traffic control device. Such vehicular traffic, including
vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall yield the
right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
movement to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching
from the opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the
intersection.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal indication, displayed
alone or in combination with another signal indication, is permitted to
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by such
arrow, or such other movement as is permitted by other indications displayed at
the same time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left
or making a u-turn movement, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the
following:
         (a)   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
         (b)   Other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   (a)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication,
as provided in R.C. § 4511.14, pedestrians facing a circular green signal
indication are permitted to proceed across the roadway within any marked or
unmarked associated crosswalk. The pedestrian shall yield the right- of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection or so close as to create an immediate
hazard at the time that the green signal indication is first displayed.
         (b)   Pedestrians facing a green arrow signal indication, unless
otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or other traffic control
device, shall not cross the roadway.
   (B)   Steady yellow signal indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow signal indication
is thereby warned that the related green movement or the related flashing arrow
movement is being terminated or that a steady red signal indication will be
exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter the
intersection. The provisions governing vehicular operation under the movement
being terminated shall continue to apply while the steady circular yellow
signal indication is displayed.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow arrow signal indication is
thereby warned that the related green arrow movement or the related flashing
arrow movement is being terminated. The provisions governing vehicular
operation under the movement being terminated shall continue to apply while the
steady yellow arrow signal indication is displayed.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal
indication, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic control device, shall not start to
cross the roadway.
   (C)   Steady red signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular red signal
indication, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted
by another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, traffic shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before
entering the intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication
to proceed is displayed except as provided in divisions (C)(1), (C)(2), and (C)
(3) of this section.
         (b)   Except when a traffic control device is in place prohibiting a
turn on red or a steady red arrow signal indication is displayed, vehicular
traffic facing a steady circular red signal indication is permitted, after
stopping, to enter the intersection to turn right, or to turn left from a one-
way street into a one-way street. The right to proceed with the turn shall be
subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a stop
sign.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow signal indication
shall not enter the intersection to make the movement indicated by the arrow
and, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted by
another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before entering the
intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication or other
traffic control device permitting the movement indicated by such red arrow is
displayed.
         (b)   When a traffic control device is in place permitting a turn on a
steady red arrow signal indication, vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow
indication is permitted, after stopping, to enter the intersection to turn
right, or to turn left from a one-way street into a one-way street. The right
to proceed with the turn shall be limited to the direction indicated by the
arrow and shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a
stop at a stop sign.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic control device, pedestrians facing
a steady circular red or steady red arrow signal indication shall not enter the
roadway.
      (4)   Local authorities by ordinance, or the Director of Transportation
on state highways, may prohibit a right or a left turn against a steady red
signal at any intersection, which shall be effective when signs giving notice
thereof are posted at the intersection.
   (D)   Flashing green signal indication. A flashing green signal indication
has no meaning and shall not be used.
   (E)   Flashing yellow signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing
a flashing circular yellow signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter
the intersection to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-
turn movement except as such movement is modified by lane- use signs, turn
prohibition signs, lane markings, roadway design, separate turn signal
indications, or other traffic control devices. Such vehicular traffic,
including vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall
yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing
a flashing yellow arrow signal indication, displayed alone or in combination
with another signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow, or other such
movement as is permitted by other signal indications displayed at the same
time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left or
making a u-turn, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing any flashing yellow signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing yellow signal indication is first displayed.
      (4)   When a flashing circular yellow signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory or warning requirements of the other traffic
control device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently
applicable.
   (F)   Flashing red signal indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing a
flashing circular red signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line; but if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. The right to proceed
shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a
stop sign.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing any flashing red signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing red signal indication is first displayed.
      (3)   When a flashing circular red signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory requirements of the other traffic control
device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently applicable.
Use of this signal indication shall be limited to supplementing stop, do not
enter, or wrong way signs, and to applications where compliance with the
supplemented traffic control device requires a stop at a designated point.
   (G)   In the event an official traffic-control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their nature
can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of
any such sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
   (H)   This section does not apply at railroad grade-crossings. Conduct of
drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade crossings shall be governed by
R.C. §§ 4511.61 and 4511.62.
(R.C. § 4511.13)
§ 70.32 SIGNALS OVER REVERSIBLE LANES.
   The meanings of lane-use control signal indications are as follows:
   (A)   A steady downward green arrow. A road user is permitted to drive in
the lane over which the arrow signal indication is located.
   (B)   A steady yellow “X”. A road user is to prepare to vacate the lane over
which the signal indication is located because a lane control change is being
made to a steady red “X” signal indication.
   (C)   A steady white two-way left-turn arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, but not
for through travel, with the understanding that common use of the lane by
oncoming road users for left turns also is permitted.
   (D)   A steady white one-way left-turn arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, without
opposing turns in the same lane, but not for through travel.
   (E)   A steady red “X”. A road user is not permitted to use the lane over
which the signal indication is located and that this signal indication shall
modify accordingly the meaning of other traffic controls present.
(R.C. § 4511.131)
§ 70.33 AMBIGUOUS OR NON-WORKING TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle who approaches an intersection where traffic
is controlled by traffic control signals shall do all of the following if the
signal facing the driver exhibits no colored lights or colored lighted arrows,
exhibits a combination of such lights or arrows that fails to clearly indicate
the assignment of right-of-way, or, if the vehicle is a bicycle or an electric
bicycle, the signals are otherwise malfunctioning due to the failure of a
vehicle detector to detect the presence of the bicycle or electric bicycle:
      (1)   Stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or, if none, stop
before entering the intersection;
      (2)   Yield the right-of-way to all vehicles in the intersection or
approaching on an intersecting road, if the vehicles will constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways;
      (3)   Exercise ordinary care while proceeding through the intersection.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.132)
§ 70.34 PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words “walk” or
“don’t walk”, or the symbol of a walking person or an upraised palm are in
place, these signals shall indicate the following instructions:
   (A)   A steady walking person signal indication, which symbolizes “walk”,
means that a pedestrian facing the signal indication is permitted to start to
cross the roadway in the direction of the signal indication, possibly in
conflict with turning vehicles. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the walking person
signal indication is first shown.
   (B)   A flashing upraised hand signal indication, which symbolizes “don’t
walk”, means that a pedestrian shall not start to cross the roadway in the
direction of the signal indication, but that any pedestrian who has already
started to cross on a steady walking person signal indication shall proceed to
the far side of the traveled way of the street or highway, unless otherwise
directed by a traffic control device to proceed only to the median of a divided
highway or only to some other island or pedestrian refuge area.
   (C)   A steady upraised hand signal indication means that a pedestrian shall
not enter the roadway in the direction of the signal indication.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the continued
use of pedestrian control signals utilizing the word “wait” if those signals
were installed prior to March 28, 1985.
   (E)   A flashing walking person signal indication has no meaning and shall
not be used.
(R.C. § 4511.14)
§ 70.35 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS AND SIGNALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of
any highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to
be, is an imitation of, or resembles a traffic-control device or railroad sign
or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or hides from
view or interferes with the effectiveness of any traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal, and no person shall place or maintain, nor shall any
public authority permit, upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing
thereon any commercial advertising. This section does not prohibit either the
erection upon private property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful
directional information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for traffic-
control devices, or the erection upon private property of traffic-control
devices by the owner of real property in accordance with R.C. §§ 4511.211 and
4511.432.
      (2)   Every prohibited sign, signal, marking, or device is a public
nuisance, and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway may remove the
same or cause it to be removed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.16)
§ 70.36 ALTERATION, DEFACEMENT, OR REMOVAL PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, without lawful authority, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy, or otherwise improperly
tamper with any traffic-control device, any railroad sign or signal, or any
inscription, shield, or insignia on the device, sign, or signal, or any part of
the device, sign, or signal;
      (2)   Knowingly drive upon or over any freshly applied pavement marking
material on the surface of a roadway while the marking material is in an
undried condition, and is marked by flags, markers, signs, or other devices
intended to protect it;
      (3)   Knowingly move, damage, destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper
with a manhole cover.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree. If a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of
this section causes serious physical harm to property that is owned, leased, or
controlled by a state or local authority, the offender is guilty of a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within
one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.17)
§ 70.37 UNAUTHORIZED POSSESSION OR SALE OF DEVICES.
   (A)   As used in this section, TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE means any sign,
traffic control signal or other device conforming to and placed or erected in
accordance with the manual adopted under R.C. § 4511.09 by authority of a
public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic, including signs denoting the names of streets and
highways, but does not mean any pavement marking.
   (B)   No individual shall buy or otherwise possess, or sell, a traffic
control device, except when one of the following applies:
      (1)   In the course of the individual’s employment by the state or a
local authority for the express or implied purpose of manufacturing, providing,
erecting, moving or removing such a traffic control device;
      (2)   In the course of the individual’s employment by any manufacturer of
traffic control devices other than a state or local authority;
      (3)   For the purpose of demonstrating the design and function of a
traffic control device to state or local officials;
      (4)   When the traffic control device has been purchased from the state
or a local authority at a sale of property that is no longer needed or is unfit
for use; or
      (5)   When the traffic control device has been properly purchased from a
manufacturer for use on private property and the person possessing the device
has a sales receipt for the device or other acknowledgment of sale issued by
the manufacturer.
   (C)   This section does not preclude, and shall not be construed as
precluding, prosecution for theft in violation of R.C. § 2913.02, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or for receiving stolen property
in violation of R.C. § 2913.51, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.18)
§ 70.38 SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICES; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall possess a portable signal preemption device.
      (2)   No person shall use a portable signal preemption device to affect
the operation of a traffic-control device.
   (B)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the following
persons and division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to any of the
following persons when responding to an emergency call:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 109.71(A)(1), (A)(12), (A)
(14), or (A)(19);
      (2)   A state highway patrol officer;
      (3)   A person while occupying a public safety vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01(E)(1), (E)(3), or (E)(4).
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, PORTABLE SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICE means a
device that, if activated by a person, is capable of changing a traffic-control
signal to green out of sequence.
(R.C. § 4511.031)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Whoever violates any provision of this traffic code for
which no penalty otherwise is provided in the section violated is guilty of one
of the following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this
section, a minor misdemeanor;
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
      (3)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more predicate motor vehicle or
traffic offenses, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.99)
   (B)   Violations committed while distracted.
      (1)   As used in this section and each section referenced in division (B)
(2) of this section, all of the following apply:
         (a)   “Distracted” means doing either of the following while operating
a vehicle:
            1.   Using an electronic wireless communications device, as defined
in R.C. § 4511.204, in violation of that section;
            2.   Engaging in any activity that is not necessary to the
operation of a vehicle and impairs, or reasonably would be expected to impair,
the ability of the operator to drive the vehicle safely.
         (b)   “Distracted” does not include operating a motor vehicle while
wearing an earphone or earplug over or in both ears at the same time. A person
who so wears earphones or earplugs may be charged with a violation of R.C. §
4511.84, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
         (c)   “Distracted” does not include conducting any activity while
operating a utility service vehicle or a vehicle for or on behalf of a utility,
provided that the driver of the vehicle is acting in response to an emergency,
power outage, or a circumstance affecting the health or safety of individuals.
As used in this division (B)(1)(c):
            UTILITY. An entity specified in R.C. § 4905.03(A), (C), (D), (E),
or (G).
            UTILITY SERVICE VEHICLE. A vehicle owned or operated by a utility.
      (2)   If an offender violates R.C. § 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12,
4511.121, 4511.132, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25,
4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33,
4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41,
4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.451, 4511.46, 4511.47,
4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.64,
4511.71, 4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, or 4511.73, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
violation, the offender is subject to the applicable penalty for the violation
and, notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28, is subject to an additional fine of not
more than $100 as follows:
         (a)   1.   Subject to Traffic Rule 13, if a law enforcement officer
issues an offender a ticket, citation, or summons for a violation of any of the
aforementioned sections of the Ohio Revised Code, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that indicates that the offender was distracted
while committing the violation and that the distracting activity was a
contributing factor to the commission of the violation, the offender may enter
a written plea of guilty and waive the offender’s right to contest the ticket,
citation, or summons in a trial provided that the offender pays the total
amount of the fine established for the violation and pays the additional fine
of $100.
            2.   In lieu of payment of the additional fine of $100, the
offender instead may elect to attend a distracted driving safety course, the
duration and contents of which shall be established by the Ohio Director of
Public Safety. If the offender attends and successfully completes the course,
the offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender successfully
completed the course. The offender shall be required to pay the total amount of
the fine established for the violation, but shall not be required to pay the
additional fine of $100, so long as the offender submits to the court both the
offender’s payment in full and such written evidence within 90 days of the
underlying violation that resulted in the imposition of the additional fine
under division (B) of this section.
         (b)   1.   If the offender appears in person to contest the ticket,
citation, or summons in a trial and the offender pleads guilty to or is
convicted of the violation, the court, in addition to all other penalties
provided by law, may impose the applicable penalty for the violation and may
impose the additional fine of not more than $100.
            2.   If the court imposes upon the offender the applicable penalty
for the violation and an additional fine of not more than $100, the court shall
inform the offender that, in lieu of payment of the additional fine of not more
than $100, the offender instead may elect to attend the distracted driving
safety course described in division (B)(2)(a) of this section. If the offender
elects the course option and attends and successfully completes the course, the
offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender successfully
completed the course. The offender shall be required to pay the total amount of
the fine established for the violation, but shall not be required to pay the
additional fine of not more than $100, so long as the offender submits to the
court the offender’s payment and such written evidence within 90 days of the
underlying violation that resulted in the imposition of the additional fine
under division (B) of this section.
      (3)    If a law enforcement officer issues an offender a ticket,
citation, or summons for a violation of any of the sections of the Revised Code
listed in division (B)(2) of this section that indicates that the offender was
distracted while committing the violation and that the distracting activity was
a contributing factor to the commission of the violation, the officer shall do
both of the following:
         (a)   Report the issuance of the ticket, citation, or summons to the
officer’s law enforcement agency;
         (b)   Ensure that such report indicates the offender’s race.
(R.C. § 4511.991)
   (C)   Sentencing. Whoever is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor
or minor misdemeanor shall be sentenced in accordance with §
130.99.
Cross-reference:
   Imposing sentence for misdemeanor, see §
130.18
   Multiple sentences, see §
130.19
Statutory reference:
   Reimbursement for costs of confinement, see R.C. §§ 2929.36 et seq.
CHAPTER 71: LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
Motor Vehicle Licensing
   
71.01   Display of license plates or validation stickers; registration
   
71.02   Improper use of noncommercial motor vehicle
   
71.03   Operating motor vehicle ordered immobilized; forfeiture
   
71.04   Operation or sale without certificate of title
   
71.05   Display of certificate of registration
   
71.06   Use of unauthorized plates
   
71.07   Operating without dealer or manufacturer license plates
   
71.08   Motor vehicle license fee
Driver’s Licenses
   
71.20   Prohibited acts
   
71.21   Permitting minor to operate vehicle prohibited; temporary instruction
permit; probationary license
   
71.22   License required as driver or commercial driver on public or private
property; nonresident exemption
   
71.23   Employment of a minor to operate a taxicab prohibited
   
71.24   Restriction against owner lending vehicle for use of another
   
71.25   Suspension of driver’s licenses; license suspended by court of record
   
71.26   Display of license
   
71.27   Prohibition against false statements
   
71.28   Driving under suspension or in violation of license restriction
   
71.29   Operating motor vehicle or motorcycle without valid license
   
71.30   Driving under OVI suspension
   
71.31   Driving under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation;
driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension
   
71.32   Failure to reinstate license
Commercial Driver’s Licenses
   
71.45   Definitions
   
71.46   Use of actual gross weight in lieu of rating
   
71.47   Prohibited acts
   
71.48   Prerequisites to operation of commercial motor vehicle
   
71.49   Physical qualification to operate commercial motor vehicles
   
71.50   Criminal offenses
   
71.51   Application of federal regulations
   
71.52   Employment of drivers of commercial vehicles
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Commercial driver’s licenses, see R.C. Chapter 4506
   Driver’s licenses, see R.C. Chapter 4507
   Motor vehicle licensing, see R.C. Chapter 4504
   Municipal motor vehicle license tax, see R.C. § 4504.06
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Proof of financial responsibility required; civil penalties; peace officers
as agents of Registrar
    of Motor Vehicles; procedures and rules, see R.C. §§ 4509.101 et seq.
   Suspension and revocation of driver’s licenses, see R.C. Chapter 4510
   Suspension of driver’s licenses; municipal power to suspend for a period not
to exceed time
    permitted or required by state law, see R.C. § 4510.05
MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSING
§ 71.01 DISPLAY OF LICENSE PLATES OR VALIDATION STICKERS; REGISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   No person who is the owner or operator of a motor vehicle shall
fail to display in plain view on the rear of the motor vehicle a license plate
that displays the distinctive number and registration mark assigned to the
motor vehicle by the Ohio Director of Public Safety, including any county
identification sticker and any validation sticker when required by and issued
under R.C. §§ 4503.19 and 4503.191. However, a commercial tractor shall display
the license plate on the front of the commercial tractor.
      (2)   The license plate shall be securely fastened so as not to swing,
and shall not be covered by any material that obstructs its visibility.
      (3)   No person to whom a temporary motor vehicle license registration
has been issued for the use of a motor vehicle under R.C. § 4503.182, and no
operator of that motor vehicle, shall fail to display the temporary motor
vehicle license registration in plain view from the rear of the vehicle either
in the rear window or on an external rear surface of the motor vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall cover a temporary motor vehicle license
registration by any material that obstructs its visibility.
(R.C. § 4503.21(A))
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by R.C. §§ 4503.103, 4503.107, 4503.173,
4503.41, 4503.43, and 4503.46, no person who is the owner or chauffeur of a
motor vehicle operated or driven upon the public roads or highways shall fail
to file annually the application for registration or to pay the tax therefor.
(R.C. § 4503.11(A))
   (C)    (1)   Within 30 days of becoming a resident of this state, any person
who owns a motor vehicle operated or driven upon the public roads or highways
shall register the vehicle in this state. If such a person fails to register a
vehicle owned by the person, the person shall not operate any motor vehicle in
this state under a license issued by another state.
      (2)   For purposes of division (C)(1) of this section, RESIDENT means any
person to whom any of the following applies:
         (a)   The person maintains their principal residence in this state and
does not reside in this state as a result of the person’s active service in the
United States armed forces.
         (b)   The person is determined by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles to
be a resident in accordance with standards adopted by the Registrar under R.C.
§ 4507.01.
(R.C. § 4503.111(A), (C))
   (D)   Upon the transfer of ownership of a motor vehicle, the registration of
the motor vehicle expires, and the original owner immediately shall remove the
license plates from the motor vehicle, except as otherwise provided in R.C. §
4503.12.
(R.C. § 4503.12(A))
   (E)   No person shall operate or drive upon the highways of this
municipality a motor vehicle acquired from a former owner who has registered
the motor vehicle, while the motor vehicle displays the distinctive number or
identification mark assigned to it upon its original registration.
(R.C. § 4549.11(A))
   (F)   No person who is the owner of a motor vehicle and a resident of this
state shall operate or drive the motor vehicle upon the highways of this
municipality while it displays a distinctive number or identification mark
issued by or under the authority of another state, without complying with the
laws of this state relating to the registration and identification of motor
vehicles.
(R.C. § 4549.12(A))
   (G)   (1)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offenses established under division (A) of this section are
strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of
these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply
that any other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability,
is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4503.21(B), (C))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4503.11(D))
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offense established under division (G)(3)(a) of this section
is a strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state
for purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
(R.C. § 4503.111(B))
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4503.12(D))
      (5)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of
operation of a motor vehicle bearing license plates or an identification mark
issued to another, a minor misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.11(B))
      (6)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of illegal
operation by a resident of this state of a motor vehicle bearing the
distinctive number or identification mark issued by a foreign jurisdiction, a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.12(B))
§ 71.02 IMPROPER USE OF NONCOMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall use a motor vehicle registered as a noncommercial
motor vehicle for other than the purposes set forth in R.C. § 4501.01.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4503.05)
§ 71.03 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE ORDERED IMMOBILIZED; FORFEITURE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or permit the operation of a
motor vehicle upon any public or private property used by the public for
vehicular travel or parking knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that
the motor vehicle has been ordered immobilized pursuant to an immobilization
order issued under R.C. § 4503.233.
   (B)   A motor vehicle that is operated by a person during a violation of
division (A) of this section shall be criminally forfeited to the state in
accordance with the procedures contained in R.C. § 4503.234.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 4503.236)
§ 71.04 OPERATION OR SALE WITHOUT CERTIFICATE OF TITLE.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate in this municipality a motor vehicle for which a
certificate of title is required without having that certificate in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 4505 or, if a physical certificate of title has not been
issued for a motor vehicle, operate the motor vehicle in this state knowing
that the ownership information relating to the vehicle has not been entered
into the automated title processing system by a Clerk of a Court of Common
Pleas;
      (2)   Display or display for sale or sell as a dealer or acting on behalf
of a dealer, a motor vehicle without having obtained a manufacturer’s or
importer’s certificate, a certificate of title, or an assignment of a
certificate of title for it as provided in R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title or any certificate of
registration or license plates upon cancellation of the same by the Registrar
of Motor Vehicles and notice of the cancellation as prescribed in R.C. Chapter
4505;
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a Clerk of a Court of
Common Pleas as provided in R.C. Chapter 4505 in case of the destruction or
dismantling or change of a motor vehicle in such respect that it is not the
motor vehicle described in the certificate of title;
      (5)   Violate any rules adopted pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (6)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapters 4505 and 4517, sell
at wholesale a motor vehicle ownership of which is not evidenced by an Ohio
certificate of title, or the current certificate of title issued for the motor
vehicle, or the manufacturer’s certificate of origin, and all title assignments
that evidence the seller’s ownership of the motor vehicle, and an odometer
disclosure statement that complies with R.C. § 4505.06 and subchapter IV of the
“Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act”, 86 Stat. 961 (1972), 15
U.S.C. § 1981;
      (7)   Operate in this state a motor vehicle knowing that the certificate
of title to the vehicle or ownership of the vehicle as otherwise reflected in
the automated title processing system has been canceled.
   (B)   This section does not apply to persons engaged in the business of
warehousing or transporting motor vehicles for the purpose of salvage
disposition.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $200,
imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4505.18)
§ 71.05 DISPLAY OF CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   The operator of a “commercial car”, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, when the commercial car is required to be registered under state law,
shall, when operating the commercial car, trailer or semitrailer on the
streets, roads, or highways of this municipality display inside or on the
vehicle the certificate of registration for the commercial car, trailer or
semitrailer provided for in R.C. § 4503.19, or shall carry the certificate on
the operator’s person and display it upon the demand of any peace officer.
      (2)   Every person operating a commercial car, trailer or semitrailer
required to be registered under state law shall permit the inspection of the
certificate of registration upon demand of any peace officer.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
commercial car certificate of registration violation, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.18)
§ 71.06 USE OF UNAUTHORIZED PLATES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or drive a motor vehicle upon the public roads
and highways in this municipality if it displays a license plate or a
distinctive number or identification mark that meets any of the following
criteria:
      (1)   It is fictitious;
      (2)   It is a counterfeit or an unlawfully made copy of any distinctive
number or identification mark;
      (3)   It belongs to another motor vehicle, provided that this section
does not apply to a motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads and
highways in this municipality when the motor vehicle displays license plates
that originally were issued for a motor vehicle that previously was owned by
the same person who owns the motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads
and highways in this municipality during the 30-day period described in R.C. §
4503.12(A)(4).
   (B)   A person who fails to comply with the transfer of registration
provisions of R.C. § 4503.12 and is charged with a violation of that section
shall not be charged with a violation of this section.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3) of this section is
guilty of operating a motor vehicle bearing an invalid license plate or
identification mark, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and
a misdemeanor of the third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.08)
§ 71.07 OPERATING WITHOUT DEALER OR MANUFACTURER LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated upon a public road or
highway a motor vehicle of a manufacturer or dealer unless the vehicle carries
and displays a placard, except as provided in R.C. § 4503.21, issued by the
Director of Public Safety that displays the registration number of its
manufacturer or dealer.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of illegal
operation of a manufacturer’s or dealer’s motor vehicle, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.10)
§ 71.08 MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   There is hereby levied an annual license tax upon the operation of
motor vehicles on the public roads or highways pursuant to R.C. § 4504.172, for
the purposes of paying the costs and expenses of enforcing and administering
the tax provided for in this section and to provide additional revenue for such
purposes.
   (B)   Such tax shall be at the rate of $5 per motor vehicle on and every
motor vehicle the district of registration of which, as defined in R.C. §
4503.10, is the village.
   (C)   As used in this section, the term MOTOR VEHICLE means any and all
vehicles included within the definition of motor vehicle in R.C. §§ 4501.01 and
4505.01.
   (D)   The tax imposed by this section shall apply to and be in effect for
the registration year commencing January 1,2022 and shall continue in effect
and application during each registration year thereafter.
   (E)   The tax imposed by this section shall be paid to the Registrar of
Motor Vehicles of the state or to a deputy registrar at the time application
for registration of a motor vehicle is made as provided in R.C. § 4503.10.
   (F)   All monies derived from the tax hereinbefore levied shall be used by
the village for the purpose specified in this section.
(Ord. 21-09, passed 4-27-2021)
DRIVER’S LICENSES
§ 71.20 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Display or cause or permit to be displayed, or possess any
identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit
knowing the same to be fictitious, or to have been canceled, suspended, or
altered;
      (2)   Lend to a person not entitled thereto, or knowingly permit a person
not entitled thereto to use any identification card, driver’s or commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit or commercial driver’s license
temporary instruction permit issued to the person so lending or permitting the
use thereof;
      (3)   Display, or represent as one’s own, any identification card,
driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or
commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit not issued to the
person so displaying the same;
      (4)   Fail to surrender to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, upon the
Registrar’s demand, any identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit that has been suspended or canceled;
      (5)   In any application for an identification card, driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit or any renewal, reprint, or
duplicate thereof, knowingly conceal a material fact or present any physician’s
statement required under R.C. § 4507.08 or 4507.081 when knowing the same to be
false or fictitious.
   (B)   Whoever violates any division of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.30)
Statutory reference:
   Use of license to violate liquor laws; suspension; procedures, see R.C. §
4510.33
§ 71.21 PERMITTING MINOR TO OPERATE VEHICLE PROHIBITED; TEMPORARY INSTRUCTION
PERMIT; PROBATIONARY LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall cause or knowingly permit any minor to drive a motor
vehicle upon a highway as an operator, unless the minor has first obtained a
license or permit to drive a motor vehicle under R.C. Chapter 4507.
(R.C. § 4507.31(A))
   (B)   (1)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under R.C. §
4507.05(A) shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking
in violation of the conditions established under R.C. § 4507.05(A).
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this section, no
holder of a temporary instruction permit that is issued under R.C. § 4507.05(A)
and that is issued on or after July 1, 1998, and who has not attained the age
of 18 years, shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking
between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m.
         (b)   The holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under R.C. §
4507.05(A) on or after July 1, 1998, who has not attained the age of 18 years,
may operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or private property
used by the public for purposed of vehicular travel or parking between the
hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. if, at the time of such operation, the holder
is accompanied by the holder’s parent, guardian, or custodian, and the parent,
guardian, or custodian holds a current valid driver’s or commercial driver’s
license issued by this state, is actually occupying a seat beside the permit
holder, and does not have a prohibited concentration of alcohol in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine as provided in R.C. § 4511.19
(A).
(R.C. § 4507.05(F))
   (C)   (1)   (a)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held
the license for less than 12 months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a
highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. unless
the holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian.
         (b)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held the
license for 12 months or longer shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. unless the
holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian.
      (2)   (a)   Subject to division (E)(1) of this section, division (C)(1)
(a) of this section does not apply to the holder of a probationary driver’s
license who is doing either of the following:
            1.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of midnight and 6:
00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession
written documentation from the holder’s employer.
            2.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the
school the holder attends between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., provided
that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession written documentation
from an appropriate official of the school;
            3.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s
immediate possession written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
         (b)   Division (C)(1)(b) of this section does not apply to the holder
of a probationary driver’s license who is doing either of the following:
            1.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and
5:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession
written documentation from the holder’s employer.
            2.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the
school the holder attends between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m.,
provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession written
documentation from an appropriate official of the school;
            3.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s
immediate possession written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
      (3)   An employer, school official, or official affiliated with a
religious event is not liable in damages in a civil action for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that allegedly arises from, or is related
to, the fact that the employer, school official, or official affiliated with a
religious event provided the holder of a probationary driver’s license with the
written documentation described in division (C)(2) of this section. The
Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall make available at no cost a form to serve as
the written documentation described in division (C)(2) of this section, and
employers, school officials, officials affiliated with religious events, and
holders of probationary driver’s licenses may utilize that form or may choose
to utilize any other written documentation to meet the requirements of that
division.
      (4)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held the
license for less than 12 months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking with more than one person who is not a family member
occupying the vehicle unless the probationary license holder is accompanied by
the probationary license holder’s parent, guardian, or custodian.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a violation of division (C)(1)(a) or
(C)(1)(b) of this section if, at the time of the violation, an emergency
existed that required the holder of the probationary driver’s license to
operate a motor vehicle in violation of division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this
section or the holder was an emancipated minor.
   (E)   (1)   If a person is issued a probationary driver’s license prior to
attaining the age of 17 years and the person pleads guilty to, is convicted of,
or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a moving violation
during the six-month period commencing on the date on which the person is
issued the probationary driver’s license, the court with jurisdiction over the
violation may order that the holder must be accompanied by the holder’s parent
or guardian whenever the holder is operating a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking for a period not to exceed six months or the date the holder
attains the age of 17 years, whichever occurs first.
      (2)   Any person who is subject to the operating restrictions established
under division (E)(1) of this section as a result of a first moving violation
may petition the court for driving privileges without being accompanied by the
holder’s parent or guardian during the period of time determined by the court
under that division. In granting the driving privileges, the court shall
specify the purposes of the privileges and shall issue the person appropriate
forms setting forth the privileges granted. If a person is convicted of, pleads
guilty to, or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a second or
subsequent moving violation, the court with jurisdiction over the violation may
terminate any driving privileges previously granted under this division.
      (3)   No person shall violate any operating restriction imposed under
division (E)(1) or (E)(2) of this section.
   (F)   No holder of a probationary license shall operate a motor vehicle upon
a highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking unless the total number of occupants of the vehicle
does not exceed the total number of occupant restraining devices originally
installed in the motor vehicle by its manufacturer, and each occupant of the
vehicle is wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted
occupant restraining device.
   (G)   A restricted license may be issued to a person who is 14 or 15 years
of age under proof of hardship satisfactory to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether each occupant of the motor vehicle is wearing all of the
available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device as
required by division (F) of this section, or for the sole purpose of issuing a
ticket, citation or summons if that requirement has been or is being violated,
or for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a
violation of that requirement.
   (I)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this
section has been or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a
ticket, citation or summons for such a violation or for causing the arrest or
commencing a prosecution of a person for such a violation.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      FAMILY MEMBER. A family member of a probationary license holder includes
any of the following:
         (a)   A spouse;
         (b)   A child or stepchild;
         (c)   A parent, stepparent, grandparent, or parent-in-law;
         (d)   An aunt or uncle;
         (e)   A sibling, whether of the whole or half blood or by adoption, a
brother-in- law, or a sister-in-law;
         (f)   A son or daughter of the probationary license holder’s
stepparent if the stepparent has not adopted the probationary license holder;
         (g)   An eligible adult, as defined in R.C. § 4507.05.
      MOVING VIOLATION. Means any violation of any statute or ordinance that
regulates the operation of vehicles on the highways or streets. The term does
not include a violation of R.C. § 4513.263 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a violation of any statute or ordinance regulating
pedestrians or the parking of vehicles, vehicle size or load limitations,
vehicle fitness requirements, or vehicle registration.
      OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4513.263.
(R.C. § 4507.071(B) - (I))
   (K)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.31(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates divisions (B), (C)(1), (C)(4), (E)(3), or (F) of
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4507.05(I), 4507.071(J))
§ 71.22 LICENSE REQUIRED AS DRIVER OR COMMERCIAL DRIVER ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE
PROPERTY; NONRESIDENT EXEMPTION.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   No person shall permit the operation of a motor vehicle
upon any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking, knowing the operator does not have a valid
driver’s license issued to the operator by the Registrar of Motor Vehicle or a
deputy registrar under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid commercial driver’s license
issued under R.C. Chapter 4506. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
whoever violates this division is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
         (b)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   No person shall receive a driver’s license, or a motorcycle
operator’s endorsement of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card unless and until the person
surrenders to the Registrar or a deputy registrar all valid licenses, temporary
instruction permits, and identification cards issued to the person by another
jurisdiction recognized by this state.
      (3)   The Registrar shall report the cancellation of a license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card to the issuing authority, together
with information that the license, temporary instruction permit, or
identification card is now issued in this state. The Registrar or a deputy
registrar shall destroy any such license, temporary instruction permit, or
identification card that is not returned to the issuing authority.
      (4)   No person shall possess more than one valid license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card at any time.
(R.C. § 4507.02(A))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving, or propelling a road roller or road machinery upon a street or highway.
      (2)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving, or propelling any agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a
street or highway at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less.
      (3)   No person shall drive, operate, draw, move, or propel any
agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a street or highway at a
speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless the person has a current, valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (4)   No person having a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator’s endorsement to operate a
motorcycle having three wheels with a motor of not more than 50 cubic
centimeters piston displacement.
      (5)   No person having a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator’s endorsement to operate an
autocycle or a cab-enclosed motorcycle.
      (6)   Every person on active duty in the military or naval forces of the
United States, when furnished with a driver’s permit and when operating an
official motor vehicle in connection with such duty, is exempt from the license
requirements of R.C. Chapters 4506 and 4507. Every person on active duty in the
military or naval forces of the United States or in service with the peace
corps, volunteers in service to America, or the foreign service of the United
States, is exempt from the license requirements of such sections for the period
of the person’s active duty or service and for six months thereafter, provided
such person was a licensee under such sections at the time the person commenced
the person’s active duty or service. This section does not prevent such a
person or the person’s spouse or dependent from making an application, as
provided in R.C. § 4507.10(C), for the renewal of a driver’s license or
motorcycle operator’s endorsement or as provided in R.C. § 4506.14 for the
renewal of a commercial driver’s license during the period of the person’s
active duty or service.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.03)
   (C)   Nonresidents, permitted to drive upon the highways of their own state,
may operate any motor vehicle upon any highway in this state without
examination or license under R.C. §§ 4507.01 through 4507.39, inclusive, upon
condition that such nonresident may be required at any time or place to prove
lawful possession or their right to operate such motor vehicle, and to
establish proper identity.
(R.C. § 4507.04)
   (D)   Surrender of driver’s license from another state.
      (1)   Any person who becomes a resident of this state, within 30 days of
becoming a resident, shall surrender any driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card issued by another state to the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a deputy registrar. If such a person intends to
operate a motor vehicle upon the public roads or highways, the person shall
apply for a temporary instruction permit or driver’s license in this state. If
the person fails to apply for a driver’s license or temporary instruction
permit or within 30 days of becoming a resident, the person shall not operate
any motor vehicle in this state under a license or permit issued by another
state.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (D)(1) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offense established under division (D)(2)(a) of this section
is a strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state
for purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
      (3)   For purposes of division (D)(1) of this section, “resident” means
any person to whom any of the following applies:
         (a)   The person maintains their principal residence in this state and
does not reside in this state as a result of the person’s active service in the
United States armed forces.
         (b)   The person is determined by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles to
be a resident in accordance with standards adopted by the Registrar under R.C.
§ 4507.01.
(R.C. § 4507.213)
§ 71.23 EMPLOYMENT OF A MINOR TO OPERATE A TAXICAB PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the definition of “chauffeur” in R.C. § 4501.01, no
person shall employ any minor for the purpose of operating a taxicab.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4507.321)
§ 71.24 RESTRICTION AGAINST OWNER LENDING VEHICLE FOR USE OF ANOTHER.
   (A)   No person shall permit a motor vehicle owned by the person or under
the person’s control to be driven by another if any of the following apply:
      (1)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person does not have a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or valid nonresident driving privileges;
      (2)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privileges have been suspended or canceled under R.C. Chapter 4510 or
any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (3)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving the motor vehicle would violate any prohibition
contained in R.C. Chapter 4509.
      (4)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving would violate R.C. § 4511.19 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (5)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
vehicle is the subject of an immobilization waiver order issued under R.C. §
4503.235 and the other person is prohibited from operating the vehicle under
that order.
   (B)   Without limiting or precluding the consideration of any other evidence
in determining whether a violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section has occurred, it shall be prima facie evidence that
the offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the operator of the
motor vehicle owned by the offender or under the offender’s control is in a
category described in division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of
this section if any of the following applies:
      (1)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(1), (A)(3), or (A)(5) of this section, the offender and the
operator of the motor vehicle reside in the same household and are related by
consanguinity or affinity.
      (2)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(2) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle reside in the same household, and the offender knows or has reasonable
cause to believe that the operator has been charged with or convicted of any
violation of law or ordinance, or has committed any other act or omission, that
would or could result in the suspension or cancellation of the operator’s
license, permit, or privilege.
      (3)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(4) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle occupied the motor vehicle together at the time of the offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of wrongful entrustment of a
motor vehicle, and shall be punished as provided in divisions (C) to (H) of
this section.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3) of this section is guilty of an
unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the
offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   (a)   If, within three years of a violation of division (A)(1), (A)
(2), or (A)(3) of this section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to
or been convicted of two or more violations of division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)
(3) of this section, R.C. § 4511.203(A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) or (A)(5) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   For any violation of this section, in addition to the penalties
imposed under this Code or R.C. Chapter 2929, the court may impose a class
seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7), and, if
the vehicle involved in the offense is registered in the name of the offender,
the court may order one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) or (C)(3)(c)
of this section, the court may order, for 30 days, the immobilization of the
vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license
plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. §
4503.233.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section, R.C. § 4511.203, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order, for 60 days, the
immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of
that vehicle’s license plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and
enforced under R.C. § 4503.233.
         (c)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section, R.C. § 4511.203, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order the criminal
forfeiture to the state of the vehicle involved in the offense. If issued, the
order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234.
      (4)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order for
criminal forfeiture under division (C)(3)(c) of this section is assigned or
transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in addition to or
independent of any other penalty established by law, the court may fine the
offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the National
Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds from any fine imposed under this
division shall be distributed in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (D)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(C)(3)(a) or (C)(3)(b) of this section, the court shall not release the vehicle
from the immobilization before the termination of the period of immobilization
ordered unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
   (E)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(C)(3)(c) of this section, upon receipt of the order from the court, neither
the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor any deputy registrar shall accept any
application for the registration or transfer of registration of any motor
vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the order. The period of denial
shall be five years after the date the order is issued, unless, during that
five-year period, the court with jurisdiction of the offense that resulted in
the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar of the
termination. If the court terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar,
the Registrar shall take all necessary measures to permit the person to
register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to transfer the
registration of the vehicle.
   (F)   This section does not apply to motor vehicle rental dealers or motor
vehicle leasing dealers, as defined in R.C. § 4549.65.
   (G)   Evidence of a conviction of, plea of guilty to, or adjudication as a
delinquent child for a violation of this section shall not be admissible as
evidence in any civil action that involves the offender or delinquent child who
is the subject of the conviction, plea, or adjudication and that arises from
the wrongful entrustment of a motor vehicle.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, a vehicle is owned by a person if, at
the time of a violation of this section, the vehicle is registered in the
person’s name.
(R.C. § 4511.203)
§ 71.25 SUSPENSION OF DRIVER’S LICENSE; LICENSE SUSPENDED BY COURT OF RECORD.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 4510.07 or in any other
provision of the Ohio Revised Code, whenever an offender is convicted of or
pleads guilty to a violation of any provision of this code that is
substantially equivalent to a provision of the Ohio Revised Code, and a court
is permitted or required to suspend a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit for a violation of that provision, a court, in addition to
any other penalties authorized by law, may suspend the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or non resident operating privileges for
the period of time the court determines appropriate, but the period of
suspension imposed for the violation of the provision of this code shall not
exceed the period of suspension that is permitted or required to be imposed for
the violation of the provision of the Ohio Revised Code to which the provision
of this code is substantially equivalent.
(R.C. § 4510.05)
   (B)   Whenever a person is found guilty under the laws of this state or any
ordinance of any political subdivision of this state, of operating a motor
vehicle in violation of any such law or ordinance relating to reckless
operation, the trial court of any court of record, in addition to or
independent of all other penalties provided by law, may impose a class five
suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(5).
   (C)   Suspension of a commercial driver’s license under this section shall
be concurrent with any period of suspension disqualification under R.C. §
3123.58 or 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from holding a
commercial driver’s license under R.C. § 4506.16 shall be issued a driver’s
license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the commercial
driver’s license was suspended under this section, and no person whose
commercial driver’s license is suspended under this section shall be issued a
driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the suspension.
(R.C. § 4510.15)
§ 71.26 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall display the operator’s driver’s
license, or furnish satisfactory proof that the operator has a driver’s
license, upon demand of any peace officer or of any person damaged or injured
in any collision in which the licensee may be involved. When a demand is
properly made, and the operator has the operator’s driver’s license on or about
the operator’s person, the operator shall not refuse to display the license. A
person’s failure to furnish satisfactory evidence that the person is licensed
under R.C. Chapter 4507 when the person does not have the person’s license on
or about the person’s person shall be prima facie evidence of the person’s not
having obtained a driver’s license.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section,
R.C. § 4507.35, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense
is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.35)
§ 71.27 PROHIBITION AGAINST FALSE STATEMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement to any matter or
thing required by the provisions of this traffic code.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4507.36)
§ 71.28 DRIVING UNDER SUSPENSION OR IN VIOLATION OF LICENSE RESTRICTION.
   (A)   Driving under suspension or in violation of license restriction.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, division (B)
of this section, §
71.31 and in R.C. §§ 4510.111 and 4510.16, no person whose driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended under any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, other than R.C.
Chapter 4509, or under any applicable law in any other jurisdiction in which
the person’s license or permit was issued shall operate any motor vehicle upon
the public roads and highways or upon any public or private property used by
the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking within this municipality
during the period of suspension unless the person is granted limited driving
privileges and is operating the vehicle in accordance with the terms of the
limited driving privileges.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking in this municipality in violation of any restriction of the person’s
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit imposed under R.C. § 4506.10
(D) or 4507.14.
      (3)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under
suspension at the time of the alleged violation of division (A)(1) of this
section or the person operated a motor vehicle in violation of a restriction at
the time of the alleged violation of division (A)(2) of this section. The
person charged with a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section
may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. The court may impose upon the
offender a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. §
4510.02(A)(7).
         (b)   1.   Except as provided in division (A)(4)(b)2. or (A)(4)(b)3.
of this section, the court, in addition to any other penalty that it imposes on
the offender and if the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111
or 4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court, in
addition to or independent of any other sentence that it imposes upon the
offender, may order the immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense
for 30 days and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license plates for 30 days in
accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
            2.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to two violations of this section, or any combination of
two violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to any
other sentence that it imposes on the offender, may order the immobilization of
the vehicle involved in the offense for 60 days and the impoundment of that
vehicle’s license plates for 60 days in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
            3.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, or any
combination of three or more violations of this section or R.C. § 4510.11,
4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the
court, in addition to any other sentence that it imposes on the offender, may
order the criminal forfeiture of the vehicle involved in the offense to the
state.
      (5)   Any order for immobilization and impoundment under this section
shall be issued and enforced under R.C. §§ 4503.233 and 4507.02, as applicable.
The court shall not release a vehicle from immobilization ordered under this
section unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
      (6)   Any order of criminal forfeiture under this section shall be issued
and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234. Upon receipt of the copy of the order from
the court, neither the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor a deputy registrar shall
accept any application for the registration or transfer of registration of any
motor vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the declaration of
forfeiture. The period of registration denial shall be five years after the
date of the order, unless, during that period, the court having jurisdiction of
the offense that led to the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the
Registrar of the termination. The Registrar then shall take necessary measures
to permit the person to register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to
transfer registration of the vehicle.
      (7)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to § 130.99
(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing
the offense for which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.11)
   (B)   Driving under suspension in violation of other provisions.
      (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking in this municipality whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license
has been suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2151.354, 2151.87, 2935.27, 3123.58,
4301.99, 4510.032, 4510.22, or 4510.33, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
      (2)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (B)(1) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under suspension at the
time of the alleged violation of division (B)(1) of this section. The person
charged with a violation of division (B)(1) of this section may offer evidence
to rebut this prima facie evidence.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
driving under suspension and shall be punished as provided in division (B)(3)
(a) or division (B)(3)(b) of this section.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3)(b) of this
section, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. The offender shall be
sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
         (b)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously
was convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (B)(1)
of this section, or any combination of two or more violations of division (B)
(1) of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or 4510.16, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree, and the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. § 2929.28 in
an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an accident
or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the offender’s
operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing the offense for
which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.111)
   (C)   Repeat traffic offender; point system suspension. Any person whose
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privileges are suspended as a repeat traffic offender under R.C. § 4510.037 and
who, during the suspension, operates any motor vehicle upon any public roads
and highways is guilty of driving under a twelve-point suspension, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. The court shall sentence the offender to a
minimum term of three days in jail. No court shall suspend the first three days
of jail time imposed pursuant to this division.
(R.C. § 4510.037(J))
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
§ 71.29 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE OR MOTORCYCLE WITHOUT VALID LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   No person, except those expressly exempted under R.C. §§
4507.03, 4507.04, and 4507.05, shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public
road or highway or any public or private property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person
has a valid driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a commercial
driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506.
      (2)   No person, except a person expressly exempted under R.C. §§
4507.03, 4507.04, and 4507.05, shall operate any motorcycle upon a public road
or highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person has a valid
license as a motorcycle operator that was issued upon application by the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. Chapter 4507. The license shall be in
the form of an endorsement, as determined by the Registrar, upon a driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, if the person has a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle, or in the form of a restricted
license as provided in R.C. § 4507.14, if the person does not have a valid
license to operate a motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle.
   (B)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima facie evidence that the person did not have either a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A)(1) of this section or a valid license as a motorcycle operator
either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or a restricted license at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A)(2) of this section. The person charged with a violation of
division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may offer evidence to rebut this
prima facie evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or motorcycle without a valid license and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   If the trier of fact finds that the offender never has held a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license issued by this state or any other
jurisdiction, or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the
offender, if the offender has never held a valid license as a motorcycle
operator, either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or in the form of a restricted license, except as otherwise
provided in this division, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case. If the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the offender, the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license bearing the motorcycle
endorsement or the offender’s restricted license was expired at the time of the
offense, except as otherwise provided in this division, the offense is a minor
misdemeanor. If within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
   (D)   The court shall not impose a license suspension for a first violation
of this section or if more than three years have passed since the offender’s
last violation of R.C. § 4510.12, this section, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (E)   If the offender is sentenced under division (C)(2) of this section, if
within three years of the offense the offender previously was convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one or more violations of R.C. § 4510.12, this section, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and if the offender’s license was
expired for more than six months at the time of the offense, the court may
impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or
nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)
(7).
(R.C. § 4510.12)
§ 71.30 DRIVING UNDER OVI SUSPENSION.
   (A)   No person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege has been suspended under R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191, or 4511.196 or under R.C. § 4510.07 for a conviction of a violation
of a municipal OVI ordinance shall operate any motor vehicle upon the public
roads or highways within this municipality during the period of the suspension.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of driving under OVI
suspension. The court shall sentence the offender under R.C. Chapter 2929,
subject to the differences authorized or required by this section.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this
section, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first degree. The
court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of three consecutive days. The three-day
term shall be imposed, unless, subject to division (C) of this section, the
court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 30 consecutive days of house
arrest with electronic monitoring. A period of house arrest with electronic
monitoring imposed under this division shall not exceed six months. If the
court imposes a mandatory three-day jail term under this division, the court
may impose a jail term in addition to that term, provided that in no case shall
the cumulative jail term imposed for the offense exceed six months;
         (b)   A fine of not less than $250 and not more than $1,000;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, immobilization for 30 days of the
offender’s vehicle and impoundment for 30 days of the identification license
plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment shall be
issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (2)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section or one
equivalent offense, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of ten consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28, the court may
sentence the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The 10-
day mandatory jail term shall be imposed unless, subject to division (C) of
this section, the court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 90
consecutive days of house arrest with electronic monitoring. The period of
house arrest with electronic monitoring shall not exceed one year;
         (b)   Notwithstanding the fines provided for in R.C. Chapter 2929, a
fine of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, immobilization of the offender’s
vehicle for 60 days and the impoundment for 60 days of the identification
license plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment
shall be issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (3)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or two or more equivalent offenses, driving under OVI suspension is a
misdemeanor. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of 30 consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28, the court may
sentence the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The
court shall not sentence the offender to a term of house arrest with electronic
monitoring in lieu of the mandatory portion of the jail term;
         (b)   Notwithstanding the fines set forth in R.C. Chapter 2929, a fine
of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, criminal forfeiture to the state
of the offender’s vehicle. The order of criminal forfeiture shall be issued and
enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234. If title to a motor vehicle that
is subject to an order for criminal forfeiture under this division is assigned
or transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, the court may fine
the offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the
National Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds from any fine so imposed
shall be distributed in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (C)   (1)   No court shall impose an alternative sentence of house arrest
with electronic monitoring under division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section
unless, within 60 days of the date of sentencing, the court issues a written
finding on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail
where the offender is required to serve the jail term imposed, the offender
will not be able to begin serving that term within the 60-day period following
the date of sentencing.
      (2)   An offender sentenced under this section to a period of house
arrest with electronic monitoring shall be permitted work release during that
period.
   (D)   Fifty percent of any fine imposed by a court under division (B)(1),
(B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section shall be deposited into the municipal
Indigent Drivers Alcohol Treatment Fund under the control of that court, as
created by the municipality pursuant to R.C. § 4511.191(H).
   (E)   In addition to or independent of all other penalties provided by law
or ordinance, the trial judge of any court of record or the mayor of a mayor’s
court shall impose on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of this section a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
      (1)   When permitted as specified in R.C. § 4510.021, if the court grants
limited driving privileges during a suspension imposed under this section, the
privileges shall be granted on the additional condition that the offender must
display restricted license plates, issued under R.C. § 4503.231, on the vehicle
driven subject to the privileges, except as provided in R.C. § 4503.231(B).
      (2)   A suspension of a commercial driver’s license under this section
shall be concurrent with any period of suspension or disqualification under
R.C. § 3123.58 or R.C. § 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from
holding a commercial driver’s license under R.C. § 4506.16 shall be issued a
driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the
commercial driver’s license was suspended under this section, and no person
whose commercial driver’s license is suspended under this section shall be
issued a driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the
suspension.
   (F)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree under this
section for which the offender is sentenced.
   (G)   As used in this section:
      ELECTRONIC MONITORING. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of a municipal ordinance, law of another state, or
law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to division (A) of
this section;
         (b)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to division (A) of this section.
      JAIL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Means the mandatory term in jail of 3, 10, or 30
consecutive days that must be imposed under division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3)
of this section upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (A) of
this section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
must be served in a jail.
         (b)   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced, or otherwise modified pursuant to any provision
of the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 4510.14)
   (H)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
Statutory reference:
   Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal
forfeiture of vehicle, see R.C. § 4510.161
§ 71.31 DRIVING UNDER FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY LAW SUSPENSION OR CANCELLATION;
DRIVING UNDER A NONPAYMENT OF JUDGMENT SUSPENSION.
   (A)   No person, whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or temporary
instruction permit or nonresident’s operating privilege has been suspended or
canceled pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4509, shall operate any motor vehicle within
this municipality, or knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to
be operated by another person in the municipality, during the period of the
suspension or cancellation, except as specifically authorized by R.C. Chapter
4509. No person shall operate a motor vehicle within this municipality, or
knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to be operated by
another person in the municipality, during the period in which the person is
required by R.C. § 4509.45 to file and maintain proof of financial
responsibility for a violation of R.C. § 4509.101, unless proof of financial
responsibility is maintained with respect to that vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any public
or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking in this municipality if the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or temporary instruction permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended pursuant to R.C. § 4509.37 or 4509.40 for nonpayment of a
judgment.
   (C)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A) or (B) of this section may be admitted into evidence
as prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under either a
financial responsibility law suspension at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A) of this section or a nonpayment of judgment suspension at the time
of the alleged violation of division (B) of this section. The person charged
with a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section may offer evidence to
rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of driving
under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation and shall be
punished as provided in this division (D). Whoever violates division (B) of
this section is guilty of driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension and
shall be punished as provided in this division (D).
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(2) of this section,
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified
misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously was
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section, or
any combination of two violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or
4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (3)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. § 2929.28 in
an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an accident
or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the offender’s
operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing the offense for
which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.16)
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
Statutory reference:
   Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal
forfeiture of vehicle, see R.C. § 4510.161
§ 71.32 FAILURE TO REINSTATE LICENSE.
   (A)   No person whose driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, or nonresident’s operating privilege has been
suspended shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public road or highway or any
public or private property after the suspension has expired unless the person
has complied with all license reinstatement requirements imposed by the court,
the bureau of motor vehicles, or another provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (B)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the license of the person had not been reinstated by
the person at the time of the alleged violation of division (A) of this
section. The person charged with a violation of division (A) of this section
may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to reinstate a
license, and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of a violation of division (A) of this
section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of two
or more violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.21 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   In all cases, the court may impose upon the offender a class seven
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
(R.C. § 4510.21)
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSES
§ 71.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL CONCENTRATION. The concentration of alcohol in a person’s blood,
breath or urine. When expressed as a percentage, it means grams of alcohol per
the following: 100 milliliters of whole blood, blood serum, or blood plasma;
210 liters of breath; or 100 milliliters of urine.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE.
      (1)   A license issued in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4506 that
authorizes an individual to drive a commercial motor vehicle. Except as
otherwise specifically provided, COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE includes an
“enhanced commercial driver’s license.”
      (2)   ENHANCED COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE means a commercial driver’s
license issued in accordance with R.C. §§ 4507.021 and 4506.072 that denotes
citizenship and identity and is approved by the United States Secretary of
Homeland Security or other designated federal agency for purposes of entering
the United States.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE INFORMATION SYSTEM. The information system
established pursuant to the requirements of the “Commercial Motor Vehicle
Safety Act of 1986”, 100 Stat. 3207-171, 49 U.S.C. App. 2701.
   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Except when used in R.C. § 4506.25, any motor
vehicle designed or used to transport persons or property that meets any of the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Any combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight or combined
gross vehicle weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more, provided that the gross
vehicle weight or gross vehicle weight rating of the vehicle or vehicles being
towed is in excess of 10,000 pounds;
      (2)   Any single vehicle with a gross vehicle weight or gross vehicle
weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more;
      (3)   Any single vehicle or combination of vehicles that is not a Class A
or Class B vehicle, but is designed to transport 16 or more passengers
including the driver;
      (4)   Any school bus with a gross vehicle weight or gross vehicle weight
rating of less than 26,001 pounds that is designed to transport fewer than 16
passengers including the driver;
      (5)   Is transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is
required under 49 C.F.R. part 172, subpart F, as amended; or
      (6)   Any single vehicle or combination of vehicles that is designed to
be operated and to travel on a public street or highway and is considered by
the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration to be a commercial motor
vehicle, including but not limited to a motorized crane, a vehicle whose
function is to pump cement, a rig for drilling wells, and a portable crane.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Includes all of the following:
      (1)   Any substance classified as a controlled substance under the
“Controlled Substances Act”, 80 Stat. 1242 (1970), 21 U.S.C. § 802(6), as
amended;
      (2)   Any substance included in Schedules I through V of 21 C.F.R. part
1308, as amended;
      (3)   Any drug of abuse.
   CONVICTION. An unvacated adjudication of guilt or a determination that a
person has violated or failed to comply with the law in a court of original
jurisdiction or an authorized administrative tribunal, an unvacated forfeiture
of bail or collateral deposited to secure the person’s appearance in court, a
plea of guilty or nolo contendere accepted by the court, the payment of a fine
or court cost, or violation of a condition of release without bail, regardless
of whether or not the penalty is rebated, suspended or probated.
   DISQUALIFICATION. Means any of the following:
      (1)   The suspension, revocation, or cancellation of a person’s
privileges to operate a commercial motor vehicle;
      (2)   Any withdrawal of a person’s privileges to operate a commercial
motor vehicle as the result of a violation of state or local law relating to
motor vehicle traffic control other than parking, vehicle weight, or vehicle
defect violations;
      (3)   A determination by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
that a person is not qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle under 49
C.F.R. § 391.
   DOMICILED. Having a true, fixed, principal, and permanent residence to which
an individual intends to return.
   DOWNGRADE. Any of the following, as applicable:
      (1)   A change in the commercial driver’s license, or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit, holder’s self-certified status as
described in R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1);
      (2)   A change to a lesser class of vehicle;
      (3)   Removal of commercial driver’s license privileges from the
individual’s driver’s license.
   DRIVE. To drive, operate or be in physical control of a motor vehicle.
   DRIVER. Any person who drives, operates or is in physical control of a
commercial motor vehicle or is required to have a commercial driver’s license.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A license issued by the Bureau of Motor Vehicles that
authorizes an individual to drive.
   DRUG OF ABUSE. Any controlled substance, dangerous drug as defined in R.C. §
4729.01, harmful intoxicant as defined in R.C. § 2925.01, or over-the-counter
medication that, when taken in quantities exceeding the recommended dosage, can
result in impairment of judgment or reflexes.
   ELECTRONIC DEVICE. Includes a cellular telephone, a personal digital
assistant, a pager, a computer, and any other device used to input, write,
send, receive, or read text.
   ELIGIBLE UNIT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. A village, township, or county that has a
population of not more than 3,000 persons according to the most recent federal
census.
   EMPLOYER. Any person, including the federal government, any state, and a
political subdivision of any state, that owns or leases a commercial motor
vehicle or assigns a person to drive such a motor vehicle.
   ENDORSEMENT. An authorization on a person’s commercial driver’s license that
is required to permit the person to operate a specified type of commercial
motor vehicle.
   FARM TRUCK. A truck controlled and operated by a farmer for use in the
transportation to or from a farm, for a distance of not more than 150 miles, of
products of the farm, including livestock and its products, poultry and its
products, floricultural and horticultural products, and in the transportation
to the farm, from a distance of not more than 150 miles, of supplies for the
farm, including tile, fence and every other thing or commodity used in
agricultural, floricultural, horticultural, livestock, and poultry production,
and livestock, poultry, and other animals and things used for breeding,
feeding, or other purposes connected with the operation of the farm, when the
truck is operated in accordance with this definition and is not used in the
operations of a motor carrier, as defined in R.C. § 4923.01.
   FATALITY. The death of a person as the result of a motor vehicle accident
occurring not more than 365 days prior to the date of death.
   FELONY. Any offense under federal or state law that is punishable by death
or imprisonment for a term exceeding one year and includes any offense
specifically classified as a felony under the law of this state, regardless of
the penalty that may be imposed.
   FOREIGN JURISDICTION. Any jurisdiction other than a state.
   GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING. The value specified by the manufacturer as the
maximum loaded weight of a single or a combination vehicle. The gross vehicle
weight rating of a combination vehicle is the gross vehicle weight rating of
the power unit plus the gross vehicle weight rating of each towed unit.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material that has been designated as hazardous
under 49 U.S.C. § 5103 and is required to be placarded under 49 C.F.R. part
172, subpart F or any quantity of a material listed as a select agent or toxin
in 42 C.F.R. part 73, as amended.
   IMMINENT HAZARD. The existence of a condition that presents a substantial
likelihood that death, serious illness, severe personal injury, or a
substantial endangerment to health, property, or the environment may occur
before the reasonably foreseeable completion date of a formal proceeding begun
to lessen the risk of death, illness, injury, or endangerment.
   MEDICAL VARIANCE. One of the following received by a driver from the Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Administration that allows the driver to be issued a
medical certificate:
      (1)   An exemption letter permitting operation of a commercial motor
vehicle under 49 C.F.R. part 381, subpart C or 49 C.F.R. § 391.64;
      (2)   A skill performance evaluation certificate permitting operation of
a commercial motor vehicle pursuant to 49 C.F.R. § 391.49.
   MOBILE TELEPHONE. A mobile communication device that falls under or uses any
commercial mobile radio service as defined in 47 C.F.R. part 20, except that
mobile telephone does not include two-way or citizens band radio services.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer, or semitrailer
propelled or drawn by mechanical power used on highways, except that such term
does not include a vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer, or semitrailer operated
exclusively on a rail.
   OUT-OF-SERVICE ORDER. A declaration by an authorized enforcement officer of
a federal, state, local, Canadian, or Mexican jurisdiction declaring that the
driver, commercial motor vehicle, or commercial motor carrier operation is out
of service as defined in 49 C.F.R. § 390.5.
   PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
   PORTABLE TANK. A liquid or gaseous packaging designed primarily to be loaded
onto or temporarily attached to a vehicle and equipped with skids, mountings,
or accessories to facilitate handling of the tank by mechanical means.
   PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01(E)(1) and
(E)(3).
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Includes every vehicle that is defined as a
recreational vehicle in R.C. § 4501.01 and is used exclusively for purposes
other than engaging in business for profit.
   RESIDENCE. Any person’s residence determined in accordance with standards
prescribed in the rules adopted by the Registrar.
   SCHOOL BUS. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   SERIOUS TRAFFIC VIOLATION. Any of the following:
      (1)   A conviction arising from a single charge of operating a commercial
motor vehicle in violation of any provision of R.C. § 4506.03;
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (2)(b) of this definition, a
violation while operating a commercial motor vehicle of a law of this state, or
any municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or any other
substantially equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of
another state, prohibiting either of the following:
            1.   Texting while driving;
            2.   Using a handheld mobile telephone.
         (b)   It is not a serious traffic violation if the person was texting
or using a handheld mobile telephone to contact law enforcement or other
emergency services.
      (3)   A conviction arising from the operation of any motor vehicle that
involves any of the following:
         (a)   A single charge of any speed in excess of the posted speed limit
by 15 miles per hour or more;
         (b)   Violations of R.C. § 4511.20 or R.C. § 4511.201 or any
substantially equivalent ordinance or resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state;
         (c)   Violation of a law of this state or an ordinance or resolution
relating to traffic control, other than a parking violation, or of any
substantially equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of
another state, that results in a fatal accident;
         (d)   Violation of R.C. § 4506.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state, that
involves the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver’s license with the proper class or endorsement for the specific vehicle
group being operated or for the passengers or type of cargo being transported;
         (e)   Violation of R.C. § 4506.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state, that
involves the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver’s license being in the person’s possession;
         (f)   Violation of R.C. § 4511.33 or R.C. § 4511.34, or any municipal
ordinance or county or township resolution substantially equivalent to either
of those sections, or any substantially equivalent law of another state or
political subdivision of another state;
         (g)   Violation of any other law of this state, any law of another
state, or any ordinance or resolution of a political subdivision of this state
or another state that meets both of the following requirements:
            1.   It relates to traffic control, other than a parking violation;
            2.   It is determined to be a serious traffic violation by the
United States Secretary of Transportation and is designated by the director as
such by rule.
   STATE. A state of the United States and includes the District of Columbia.
   TANK VEHICLE. Any commercial motor vehicle that is designed to transport any
liquid or gaseous materials within a tank or tanks that are either permanently
or temporarily attached to the vehicle or its chassis and have an individual
rated capacity of more than 119 gallons and an aggregate rated capacity of
1,000 gallons or more. The term does not include a commercial motor vehicle
transporting an empty storage container tank that is not designed for
transportation, has a rated capacity of 1,000 gallons or more, and is
temporarily attached to a flatbed trailer.
   TESTER. Means a person or entity acting pursuant to a valid agreement
entered into pursuant to R.C. § 4506.09(B).
   TEXTING. Manually entering alphanumeric text into, or reading text from, an
electronic device. Texting includes short message service (SMS), e-mail,
instant messaging, a command or request to access a world wide web page,
pressing more than a single button to initiate or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone, or engaging in any other form of
electronic text retrieval or entry, for present or future communication.
Texting does not include the following:
      (1)   Using voice commands to initiate, receive, or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone;
      (2)   Inputting, selecting, or reading information on a global
positioning system or navigation system;
      (3)   Pressing a single button to initiate or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone; or
      (4)   Using, for a purpose that is not otherwise prohibited by law, a
device capable of performing multiple functions, such as a fleet management
system, a dispatching device, a mobile telephone, a citizens band radio, or a
music player.
   TEXTING WHILE DRIVING. Texting while operating a commercial motor vehicle,
with the motor running, including while temporarily stationary because of
traffic, a traffic control device, or other momentary delays. Texting while
driving does not include operating a commercial motor vehicle with or without
the motor running when the driver has moved the vehicle to the side of, or off,
a highway and is stopped in a location where the vehicle can safely remain
stationary.
   UNITED STATES. The 50 states and the District of Columbia.
   UPGRADE. A change in the class of vehicles, endorsements, or self-certified
status as described in R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1) that expands the ability of a
current commercial driver’s license holder to operate commercial motor vehicles
under this chapter or R.C. Chapter 4506.
   USE OF A HANDHELD MOBILE TELEPHONE. Means:
      (1)   Using at least one hand to hold a mobile telephone to conduct a
voice communication;
      (2)   Dialing or answering a mobile telephone by pressing more than a
single button; or
      (3)   Reaching for a mobile telephone in a manner that requires a driver
to maneuver so that the driver is no longer in a seated driving position, or
restrained by a seat belt that is installed in accordance with 49 C.F.R. §
393.93 and adjusted in accordance with the vehicle manufacturer’s instructions.
   VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 4506.01)
§ 71.46 USE OF ACTUAL GROSS WEIGHT IN LIEU OF RATING.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the actual gross weight of a vehicle or
combination of vehicles may be used in lieu of a gross vehicle weight rating to
determine whether a vehicle or combination of vehicles qualifies as a
commercial motor vehicle if the gross vehicle weight rating specified by the
manufacturer for the vehicle of combination of vehicles is not determinable, or
if the manufacturer of the vehicle has not specified a gross vehicle weight
rating.
(R.C. § 4506.011)
§ 71.47 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having in the person’s
possession or otherwise under the person’s control more than one valid driver’s
license issued by this state, any other state, or by a foreign jurisdiction;
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this municipality
in violation of an out-of-service order while the person’s driving privilege is
suspended, revoked, or cancelled, or while the person is subject to
disqualification;
      (3)   Drive a motor vehicle on a highway in the municipality under the
authority of a commercial driver’s license issued by another state or a foreign
jurisdiction, after having been a resident of this state for 30 days or longer;
      (4)   Knowingly give false information in any application or
certification required by R.C. § 4506.07;
      (5)   Knowingly provide false statements or engage in any fraudulent act
related to testing for a commercial driver’s license as required in R.C. §
4506.09.
   (B)   The municipality shall give every conviction occurring out of this
state and notice of which was received by the state Department of Public Safety
after December 31, 1989, full faith and credit and treat it for sanctioning
purposes under this chapter as though the conviction had occurred in this
state.
(R.C. § 4506.04(A), (B))
   (C)   No person shall drive any commercial motor vehicle for which an
endorsement is required under R.C. § 4506.12 unless the proper endorsement
appears on the person’s commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit. No person shall drive a commercial motor
vehicle in violation of a restriction established under R.C. § 4506.12 that
appears on the person’s commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit.
(R.C. § 4506.12(I))
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of
falsification, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition, the provisions
of R.C. § 4507.19 apply.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(5) of this section is guilty of
falsification, a misdemeanor of the third degree. In addition, the provisions
of R.C. § 4507.19 apply.
(R.C. § 4506.04(C))
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   The offenses established under division (C) of this section are
strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of
these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply
that any other offense for which there is no specified degree of culpability,
whether in this section or another section of this code or the Ohio Revised
Code, is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4506.12(J))
§ 71.48 PREREQUISITES TO OPERATION OF COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (B) or (C) of this section, the
following shall apply:
      (1)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in
this state unless the person holds, and has in the person’s possession, any of
the following:
         (a)   A valid commercial driver’s license with proper endorsements for
the motor vehicle being driven, issued by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or by
another jurisdiction recognized by this state;
         (b)   A valid examiner’s commercial driving permit issued under R.C. §
4506.13;
         (c)   A valid restricted commercial driver’s license and waiver for
farm-related service industries issued under R.C. § 4506.24;
         (d)   A valid commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit
issued by the Registrar, provided that the person is accompanied by an
authorized state driver’s license examiner or tester or a person who has been
issued and has in the person’s immediate possession a current, valid commercial
driver’s license and who meets the requirements of R.C. § 4506.06(B).
      (2)   No person’s commercial driver’s license temporary instruction
permit shall be upgraded, and no commercial driver’s license shall be upgraded,
renewed, or issued to a person until the person surrenders to the registrar of
motor vehicles all valid licenses and permits issued to the person by this
state or by another jurisdiction recognized by this state. If the license or
permit was issued by any other state or another jurisdiction recognized by this
state, the Registrar shall report the surrender of a license or permit to the
issuing authority, together with information that a license or permit is now
issued in this state. The Registrar shall destroy any such license or permit
that is not returned to the issuing authority.
      (3)   No person who has been a resident of this state for 30 days or
longer shall drive a commercial motor vehicle under the authority of a
commercial driver’s license issued in another jurisdiction.
   (B)   Nothing in division (A) of this section applies to any qualified
person when engaged in the operation of any of the following:
      (1)   A farm truck;
      (2)   Fire equipment for a fire department, volunteer or nonvolunteer
fire company, fire district, joint fire district, or the State Fire Marshal;
      (3)   A public safety vehicle used to provide transportation or emergency
medical service for ill or injured persons;
      (4)   A recreational vehicle;
      (5)   A commercial motor vehicle within the boundaries of an eligible
unit of local government, if the person is employed by the eligible unit of
local government and is operating the commercial motor vehicle for the purpose
of removing snow or ice from a roadway by plowing, sanding, or salting, but
only if either the employee who holds a commercial driver’s license issued
under R.C. Chapter 4506 and ordinarily operates a commercial motor vehicle for
these purposes is unable to operate the vehicle, or the employing eligible unit
of local government determines that a snow or ice emergency exists that
requires additional assistance;
      (6)   A vehicle operated for military purposes by any member or uniformed
employee of the armed forces of the United States or their reserve components,
including the Ohio National Guard. This exception does not apply to United
States reserve technicians;
      (7)   A commercial motor vehicle that is operated for nonbusiness
purposes. “Operated for nonbusiness purposes” means that the commercial motor
vehicle is not used in commerce as “commerce” is defined in 49 C.F.R. § 383.5,
as amended, and is not regulated by the Public Utilities Commission pursuant to
R.C. Chapter 4905, 4921, or 4923;
      (8)   A motor vehicle that is designed primarily for the transportation
of goods and not persons, while that motor vehicle is being used for the
occasional transportation of personal property by individuals not for
compensation and not in the furtherance of a commercial enterprise;
      (9)   A police SWAT team vehicle;
      (10)   A police vehicle used to transport prisoners.
   (C)   Nothing contained in division (B)(5) of this section shall be
construed as preempting or superseding any law, rule or regulation of this
state concerning the safe operation of commercial motor vehicles.
(R.C. § 4506.03(A) - (C))
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a person may drive a
commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this municipality if all of the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The person has a valid commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit issued by any state or
jurisdiction in accordance with the minimum standards adopted by the Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Administration under the “Commercial Motor Vehicle Safety
Act of 1986”, 100 Stat. 3207-171, 49 U.S.C. App., for issuance of commercial
driver’s licenses;
      (2)   The person’s commercial driver’s license or temporary instruction
permit is not suspended, revoked, or canceled, and the person has the
appropriate endorsements for the vehicle that is being driven;
      (3)   The person is not disqualified from driving a commercial motor
vehicle;
      (4)   The person is not subject to an out-of-service order;
      (5)   The person is medically certified as physically qualified to
operate a commercial motor vehicle in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4506.
         (a)   A person who submitted a medical examiner’s certificate to the
Registrar in accordance with R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1) and whose medical
certification information is maintained in the commercial driver’s license
information system is not required to have the medical examiner’s certificate
in the person’s possession when on duty.
         (b)   A person whose medical certification information is not
maintained in the commercial driver’s license information system shall have in
the person’s possession when on duty the original or a copy of the current
medical examiner’s certificate that was submitted to the Registrar. However,
the person may operate a commercial motor vehicle with such proof of medical
certification for not more than 15 days after the date the current medical
examiner’s certificate was issued to the person.
         (c)   A person who has a medical variance shall have in the person’s
possession the original or copy of the medical variance documentation at all
times while on duty.
   (E)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this
municipality if the person does not meet the conditions specified in division
(D) of this section.
   (F)   Except as set forth in 49 C.F.R. §§ 390.3(f), 391.2, 391.62, 391.67,
and 391.68, no person holding a commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit or a commercial driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter
4506 may drive a commercial motor vehicle in interstate commerce until the
person is at least 21 years of age.
(R.C. § 4506.05(A) - (C))
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (2)   The offenses established under divisions (D), (E) and (F) of this
section are strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The
designation of these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be
construed to imply that any other offense, for which there is no specified
degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. §§ 4506.03(D), 4506.05(D))
§ 71.49 PHYSICAL QUALIFICATION TO OPERATE COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person who holds a valid commercial driver’s license shall drive a
commercial motor vehicle unless the person is physically qualified to do so.
      (1)   Any person applying for a commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit, the renewal or upgrade of a
commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit, or the transfer of a commercial driver’s license from out
of state shall self-certify to the Registrar for purposes of 49 C.F.R. § 383.71
one of the following in regard to the applicant’s operation of a commercial
motor vehicle, as applicable:
         (a)   1.   If the applicant operates or expects to operate a
commercial motor vehicle in interstate or foreign commerce and is subject to
and meets the requirements under 49 C.F.R. part 391, the applicant shall self-
certify that the applicant is non-excepted interstate and shall provide the
Registrar with the original or a copy of a medical examiner’s certificate and
each subsequently issued medical examiner’s certificate prepared by a qualified
medical examiner to maintain a medically certified status on the applicant’s
commercial driver licensing system driver record;
            2.   If the applicant operates or expects to operate a commercial
motor vehicle in interstate commerce, but engages in transportation or
operations excepted under 49 C.F.R. §§ 390.3(f), 391.2, 391.68, or 398.3 from
all or parts of the qualification requirements of 49 C.F.R. part 391, the
applicant shall self-certify that the applicant is excepted interstate and is
not required to obtain a medical examiner’s certificate;
         (b)   1.   If the applicant operates only in intrastate commerce and
is subject to state driver qualification requirements, the applicant shall
self-certify that the applicant is non-excepted intrastate;
            2.   If the applicant operates only in intrastate commerce and is
excepted from all or parts of the state driver qualification requirements, the
applicant shall self-certify that the applicant is excepted intrastate.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the expiration date on a person’s commercial
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit,
every commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit holder shall provide the Registrar with the certification
required by this section on or after January 30, 2012, but prior to January 30,
2014.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4506.10(A), (E))
§ 71.50 CRIMINAL OFFENSES.
   (A)   No person who holds a commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit or who operates a motor vehicle
for which a commercial driver’s license or permit is required shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having a measurable or
detectable amount of alcohol or of a controlled substance in the person’s
blood, breath, or urine;
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of 0.04% or more by whole blood or breath;
      (3)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of .048% or more by blood serum or blood plasma;
      (4)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of .056% or more by urine;
      (5)   Drive a motor vehicle while under the influence of a controlled
substance;
      (6)   Drive a motor vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a municipal
OVI ordinance as defined in R.C. § 4511.181;
      (7)   Use a vehicle in the commission of a felony;
      (8)   Refuse to submit to a test under R.C. § 4506.17 or R.C. § 4511.191,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (9)   Operate a commercial motor vehicle while the person’s commercial
driver’s license or permit or other commercial driving privileges are revoked,
suspended, cancelled, or disqualified;
      (10)   Cause a fatality through the negligent operation of a commercial
motor vehicle, including but not limited to the offenses of aggravated
vehicular homicide, vehicular homicide, and vehicular manslaughter;
      (11)   Fail to stop after an accident in violation of R.C. §§ 4549.02 to
4549.03, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (12)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle in violation of any provision of
R.C. §§ 4511.61 through 4511.63 or any federal or local law or ordinance
pertaining to railroad-highway grade crossings;
      (13)   Use a motor vehicle in the commission of a felony involving the
manufacture, distribution, or dispensing of a controlled substance as defined
in R.C. § 3719.01 or the possession with intent to manufacture, distribute, or
dispense a controlled substance;
      (14)   Use a commercial motor vehicle in the commission of a violation of
R.C. § 2905.32 or any other substantially equivalent offense established under
federal law or the laws of another state.
(R.C. § 4506.15(A))
   (B)   No person shall refuse to immediately surrender the person’s
commercial driver’s license or permit to a peace officer when required to do so
by R.C. § 4506.17.
(R.C. § 4506.17(H))
   (C)   (1)   Within the jurisdictional limits of the appointing authority,
any peace officer shall stop and detain any person found violating division (A)
of this section without obtaining a warrant. When there is reasonable ground to
believe that a violation of division (A) of this section has been committed and
a test or tests of the person’s whole blood, blood plasma or blood serum,
breath or urine is necessary, the peace officer shall take the person to an
appropriate place for testing. If a person refuses to submit to a test after
being warned as provided in R.C. § 4506.17(C), or submits to a test that
discloses the presence of a controlled substance or an alcohol concentration of
0.04% or more by whole blood or breath, an alcohol concentration of .048% or
more by blood serum or blood plasma, or an alcohol concentration of .056% or
more by urine, the peace officer shall require that the person immediately
surrender the person’s commercial driver’s license to the peace officer.
      (2)   As used in this division (C), JURISDICTIONAL LIMITS means the
limits within which a peace officer may arrest and detain a person without a
warrant under R.C. § 2935.03, except that the Superintendent and the troopers
of the State Highway Patrol may stop and detain, without warrant, any person
who, in the presence of the Superintendent or any trooper, is engaged in a
violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter or R.C. Chapter 4506.
(R.C. § 4506.23)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. §§ 4506.15(B), 4506.17(N))
   (E)   The offenses established under division (A) of this section are strict
liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of these
offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply that any
other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a
strict liability offense.
(R.C. §§ 4506.15(C))
Statutory reference:
   Alcohol or controlled substance testing, disqualification of drivers, see
R.C. § 4506.17
   Disqualification of drivers for violations, see R.C. § 4506.16
§ 71.51 APPLICATION OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of 49 C.F.R. part 383, subpart C (Notification
Requirements and Employer Responsibilities), as amended, shall apply to all
commercial drivers or persons who apply for employment as commercial drivers.
No person shall fail to make a report to the person’s employer as required by
this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4506.19)
§ 71.52 EMPLOYMENT OF DRIVERS OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   Each employer shall require every applicant for employment as a driver
of a commercial vehicle to provide the applicant’s employment history for the
ten years preceding the date the employment application is submitted to the
prospective employer. The following information shall be submitted:
      (1)   A list of the names and addresses of the applicant’s previous
employers for which the applicant was the operator of a commercial motor
vehicle;
      (2)   The dates the applicant was employed by these employers;
      (3)   The reason for leaving each of these employers.
   (B)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize any driver employed by
the employer to drive a commercial motor vehicle during any period in which any
of the following apply:
      (1)   The driver’s commercial driver’s license is suspended, revoked, or
cancelled by any state or a foreign jurisdiction;
      (2)   The driver has lost the privilege to drive, or currently is
disqualified from driving, a commercial motor vehicle in any state or foreign
jurisdiction;
      (3)   The driver, the commercial motor vehicle the driver is driving, or
the motor carrier operation is subject to an out-of-service order in any state
or a foreign jurisdiction;
      (4)   The driver has more than one driver’s license.
   (C)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a
commercial motor vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4506.15.
   (D)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a
commercial motor vehicle if the driver does not hold a valid, current
commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit bearing the proper class or endorsements for the vehicle. No
employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a commercial
motor vehicle in violation of the restrictions on the driver’s commercial
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A), (B) or (D) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 4506.20)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty
otherwise is provided in the section that contains the provision violated is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. §§ 4506.99, 4507.99)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
72.001   Lanes of travel upon roadways
   
72.002   Driving through safety zone
   
72.003   Vehicles traveling in opposite directions
   
72.004   Rules governing overtaking and passing of vehicles
   
72.005   Permission to overtake and pass on the right
   
72.006   Driving to left of center line
   
72.007   Prohibition against driving upon left side of roadway
   
72.008   Hazardous zones
   
72.009   One-way highways and rotary traffic islands
   
72.010   Rules for driving in marked lanes
   
72.011   Space between moving vehicles
   
72.012   Divided roadways
   
72.013   Rules for turns at intersections
   
72.014   U-turns and turning in roadway prohibited
   
72.015   Starting and backing vehicles
   
72.016   Turn and stop signals
   
72.017   Hand and arm signals
Right-of-Way
   
72.030   Right-of-way at intersections
   
72.031   Right-of-way when turning left
   
72.032   Right-of-way at through highways; stop signs; yield signs
   
72.033   Stop at sidewalk area; stop signs on private roads and driveways
   
72.034   Right-of-way on public highway
   
72.035   Pedestrian on sidewalk has right-of-way
   
72.036   Right-of-way of public safety vehicles
   
72.037   Funeral procession has right-of-way
   
72.038   Pedestrians yield right-of-way to public safety vehicle
   
72.039   Pedestrian on crosswalk has right-of-way
   
72.040   Right-of-way yielded to blind person
   
72.041   Right-of-way yielded by pedestrian
Pedestrians
   
72.055   Pedestrian movement in crosswalks
   
72.056   Pedestrian walking along highway
   
72.057   Prohibition against soliciting rides; riding on outside of vehicle
   
72.058   Pedestrian on bridge or railroad crossing
   
72.059   Persons operating motorized wheelchairs
   
72.060   Intoxicated or drugged pedestrian hazard on highway
   
72.061   Operation of electric personal assistive mobility devices
   
72.062   Operation of personal delivery device on sidewalks and crosswalks
   
72.063   Low-speed micromobility devices
Grade Crossings
   
72.075   Stop signs at grade crossings
   
72.076   Driving vehicle across railroad grade crossing
   
72.077   Vehicles required to stop at grade crossings
   
72.078   Slow-moving vehicles or equipment crossing railroad tracks
   
72.079   Raising grade of railroad crossing
School Buses
   
72.090   Regulations concerning school buses
   
72.091   Violation of regulations; report; investigation; citation; warning
   
72.092   Restrictions on the operation of school buses
   
72.093   School bus inspection
   
72.094   School bus not used for school purposes
   
72.095   Licensing by Department of Public Safety
   
72.096   Registration and identification of school buses
   
72.097   School bus marking
   
72.098   Flashing light signal lamps
   
72.099   Occupant restraining device for operator
Prohibitions
   
72.115   Obstruction and interference affecting view and control of driver
   
72.116   Occupying travel trailer, fifth wheel vehicle, or manufactured or
mobile home while in motion
   
72.117   Driving upon closed highway prohibited
   
72.118   Driving upon sidewalk area or paths exclusively for bicycles
   
72.119   Obstructing passage of other vehicles
   
72.120   Following an emergency or public vehicle prohibited; approaching
stationary public safety vehicle and certain other vehicles with caution
   
72.121   Driving over unprotected fire hose
   
72.122   Placing injurious material on highway or depositing litter from motor
vehicle
   
72.123   Transporting child not in child-restraint system prohibited
   
72.124   Occupant restraining devices
   
72.125   Use of engine brakes prohibited
   
72.126   Operating motor vehicle while wearing earphones or earplugs
   
72.127   Chauffeured limousines and livery services
   
72.128   Operating traction engine upon improved highway
   
72.129   Cracking exhaust noises; peeling out
   
72.130   Shortcutting across private property
   
72.131   Texting while driving prohibited
   
72.132   Use of electronic wireless communication devices by minors or
probationary drivers while driving prohibited
Statutory reference:
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.001 LANES OF TRAVEL UPON ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction, or when making a left turn under the rules governing such movements;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the highway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the highway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   When driving upon a roadway divided into three or more marked lanes
for traffic under the rules applicable thereon;
      (4)   When driving upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for
one-way traffic;
      (5)   When otherwise directed by a police officer or traffic-control
device.
   (B)   (1)   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the
prevailing and lawful speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall be driven in the right- hand lane then available
for traffic, and far enough to the right to allow passing by faster vehicles if
such passing is safe and reasonable, except under any of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction;
         (b)   When preparing for a left turn;
         (c)   When the driver must necessarily drive in a lane other than the
right-hand lane to continue on the driver’s intended route.
      (2)   Nothing in division (B)(1) of this section requires a driver of a
slower vehicle to compromise the driver’s safety to allow overtaking by a
faster vehicle.
   (C)   Upon any roadway having four or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for two- way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the center line of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic-control devices designating certain lanes to the left of the center of
the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use the lanes, or
except as permitted under division (A)(2) of this section. This division shall
not be construed as prohibiting the crossing of the center line in making a
left turn into or from an alley, private road, or driveway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.25)
§ 72.002 DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within a safety
zone.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.60)
§ 72.003 VEHICLES TRAVELING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   Operators of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass
each other to the right, and upon roadways having width for not more than one
line of traffic in each direction, each operator shall give to the other one-
half of the main traveled portion of the roadway or as nearly one-half as is
reasonably possible.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.26)
§ 72.004 RULES GOVERNING OVERTAKING AND PASSING OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction:
      (1)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall, except as provided in division (A)(3) of this
section, signal to the vehicle to be overtaken, shall pass to the left thereof
at a safe distance, and shall not again drive to the right side of the roadway
until safely clear of the overtaken vehicle. When a motor vehicle overtakes and
passes a bicycle or electric bicycle, three feet or greater is considered a
safe passing distance.
      (2)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
operator of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle at the latter’s audible signal, and the operator shall not
increase the speed of the operator’s vehicle until completely passed by the
overtaking vehicle.
      (3)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking and passing another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction on a divided highway as defined in R.C. §
4511.35, a limited access highway as defined in R.C. § 5511.02, or a highway
with four or more traffic lanes is not required to signal audibly to the
vehicle being overtaken and passed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.27)
§ 72.005 PERMISSION TO OVERTAKE AND PASS ON THE RIGHT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass on the right of another
vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
or
      (2)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
two or more lines of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being traveled
by the overtaking vehicle.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle only
under conditions permitting the movement in safety. The movement shall not be
made by driving off the roadway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.28)
§ 72.006 DRIVING TO LEFT OF CENTER LINE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left of the center of the roadway in
overtaking and passing traffic proceeding in the same direction, unless the
left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit the overtaking and passing to be completely made
without interfering with the safe operation of any traffic approaching from the
opposite direction or any traffic overtaken. In every event, the overtaking
vehicle must return to an authorized lane of travel as soon as practicable, and
in the event the passing movement involves the use of a lane authorized for the
traffic approaching from the opposite direction, before coming within 200 feet
of any approaching vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.29)
§ 72.007 PROHIBITION AGAINST DRIVING UPON LEFT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven upon the left side of the roadway under the
following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway, where the operator’s view is obstructed within such a distance as to
create a hazard in the event traffic might approach from the opposite
direction;
      (2)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct, or tunnel; or
      (3)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection
or railroad grade crossing.
   (B)   This section does not apply to vehicles upon a one-way roadway, upon a
roadway where traffic is lawfully directed to be driven to the left side, or
under the conditions described in R.C. § 4511.25(A)(2) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.30)
§ 72.008 HAZARDOUS ZONES.
   (A)   The Department of Transportation may determine those portions of any
state highway where overtaking and passing other traffic or driving to the left
of the center or center line of the roadway would be especially hazardous, and
may, by appropriate signs or markings on the highway, indicate the beginning
and end of such zones. When signs or markings are in place and clearly visible,
every operator of a vehicle shall obey the directions of the signs or markings,
notwithstanding the distances set out in R.C. § 4511.30.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply when all of the following
apply:
      (1)   The slower vehicle is proceeding at less than half the speed of the
speed limit applicable to that location.
      (2)   The faster vehicle is capable of overtaking and passing the slower
vehicle without exceeding the speed limit.
      (3)   There is sufficient clear sight distance to the left of the center
or center line of the roadway to meet the overtaking and passing provisions of
R.C. § 4511.29, considering the speed of the slower vehicle.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.31)
§ 72.009 ONE-WAY HIGHWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for one-way
traffic, a vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated.
      (2)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven
only to the right of the rotary traffic island.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.32)
§ 72.010 RULES FOR DRIVING IN MARKED LANES.
   (A)   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for traffic, or wherever within the municipality traffic is lawfully
moving in two or more substantially continuous lines in the same direction, the
following rules apply:
      (1)   A vehicle shall be driven, as nearly as is practicable, entirely
within a single lane or line of traffic and shall not be moved from the lane or
line until the driver has first ascertained that the movement can be made with
safety.
      (2)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes and provides for
the two-way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center
lane, except when overtaking and passing another vehicle where the roadway is
clearly visible and the center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance,
or when preparing for a left turn, or where the center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is
proceeding, and is posted with signs to give notice of such allocation.
      (3)   Official signs may be erected directing specified traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction, regardless of the center of the roadway, or restricting
the use of a particular lane to only buses during certain hours or during all
hours, and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of such signs.
      (4)   Official traffic-control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway, and drivers of vehicles shall obey
the directions of every such device.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.33)
§ 72.011 SPACE BETWEEN MOVING VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle
more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of
the vehicle and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway.
      (2)   The driver of any truck, or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle,
when traveling upon a roadway outside a business or residence district, shall
maintain a sufficient space, whenever conditions permit, between the vehicle
and another vehicle ahead so an overtaking motor vehicle may enter and occupy
the space without danger. This division does not prevent overtaking and passing
nor does it apply to any lane specially designated for use by trucks.
      (3)   Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business
or residence district in a caravan or motorcade shall maintain a sufficient
space between the vehicles so an overtaking vehicle may enter and occupy the
space without danger. This division shall not apply to funeral processions.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.34)
§ 72.012 DIVIDED ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Whenever any highway has been divided into two roadways by an
intervening space, or by a physical barrier, or a clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right-hand roadway, and no vehicle shall be driven over,
across, or within any dividing space, barrier, or section, except through an
opening, crossover, or intersection established by public authority. This
section does not prohibit the occupancy of the dividing space, barrier, or
section for the purpose of an emergency stop, or in compliance with an order of
a police officer.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.35)
§ 72.013 RULES FOR TURNS AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall be
governed by the following rules:
      (1)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
center line thereof and by passing to the right of the center line where it
enters the intersection, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn
shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the center line
of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made
in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection.
      (3)   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on
one or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at
any such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand
lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of the
vehicle, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so
as to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left hand lane
of the roadway being entered lawfully available to traffic moving in that lane.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities may cause
markers, buttons, or signs to be placed within or adjacent to intersections,
and thereby require and direct that a different course from that specified in
this section be traveled by vehicles turning at an intersection, and when
markers, buttons, or signs are so placed, no operator of a vehicle shall turn
the vehicle at an intersection other than as directed and required by the
markers, buttons, or signs.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.36)
§ 72.014 U-TURNS AND TURNING IN ROADWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4511.13 and division (B) of this section,
no vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any
curve, or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade, if such vehicle
cannot be seen within 500 feet by the driver of any other vehicle approaching
from either direction.
   (B)   The driver of an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, may turn the vehicle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction. This division applies only when the emergency vehicle or
public safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle, and when the driver of the vehicle is giving an audible signal by
siren, exhaust whistle, or bell. This division does not relieve the driver of
an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.37)
§ 72.015 STARTING AND BACKING VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or
parked until the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
      (2)   Before backing, operators of vehicles shall give ample warning, and
while backing they shall exercise vigilance not to injure person or property on
the street or highway.
      (3)   No person shall back a motor vehicle on a freeway, except:
         (a)   In a rest area;
         (b)   In the performance of public works or official duties;
         (c)   As a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown
of a motor vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.38)
§ 72.016 TURN AND STOP SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall turn a vehicle or move right or left upon a
highway unless and until the person has exercised due care to ascertain that
the movement can be made with reasonable safety, nor without giving an
appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter provided.
      (2)   When required, a signal of intention to turn or move right or left
shall be given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by
the vehicle before turning, except that in the case of a person operating a
bicycle or electric bicycle, the signal shall be made not less than one time
but is not required to be continuous. A bicycle or electric bicycle operator is
not required to make a signal if the bicycle is in a designated turn lane, and
a signal shall not be given when the operator’s hands are needed for the safe
operation of the bicycle or electric bicycle.
      (3)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear, when there is opportunity to
give a signal.
      (4)   Any stop or turn signal required by this section shall be given
either by means of the hand and arm, or by signal lights that clearly indicate
to both approaching and following traffic the intention to turn or move right
or left, except that any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped
with, and the required signal shall be given by, signal lights when the
distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the left outside
limit of the body, cab or load of such motor vehicle exceeds 24 inches, or when
the distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the rear limit
of the body or load thereof exceeds 14 feet, whether a single vehicle or a
combination of vehicles.
      (5)   The signal lights required by this section shall not be flashed on
one side only on a disabled vehicle, flashed as a courtesy or “do pass” signal
to operators of other vehicles approaching from the rear, nor be flashed on one
side only of a parked vehicle except as may be necessary for compliance with
this section.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.39)
§ 72.017 HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, all signals
required by the provisions of this traffic code, when given by hand and arm,
shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in the following manner, and
the signals shall indicate as follows:
      (1)   Left turn, hand and arm extended horizontally;
      (2)   Right turn, hand and arm extended upward;
      (3)   Stop or decrease speed, hand and arm extended downward.
   (B)   As an alternative to division (A)(2) of this section, a person
operating a bicycle or electric bicycle may give a right turn signal by
extending the right hand and arm horizontally and to the right side of the
bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.40)
RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 72.030 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different
streets or highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle
on the left shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (B)   The right-of-way rule declared in division (A) of this section is
modified at through highways and otherwise as stated in this traffic code or
R.C. Chapter 4511.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.41)
§ 72.031 RIGHT-OF-WAY WHEN TURNING LEFT.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an
intersection or into an alley, private road, or driveway shall yield the right-
of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within
the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.42)
§ 72.032 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT THROUGH HIGHWAYS; STOP SIGNS; YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   Except when directed to proceed by a law enforcement officer, every
driver of a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or, if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering it. After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-
way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so
closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time the driver is
moving across or within the intersection or junction of roadways.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow down to a
speed reasonable for the existing conditions, and if required for safety to
stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none, then at the
point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering it. After
slowing, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways. Whenever a driver is involved in a
collision with a vehicle in the intersection or junction of roadways, after
driving past a yield sign without stopping, the collision shall be prima facie
evidence of the driver’s failure to yield the right-of-way.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.43)
§ 72.033 STOP AT SIDEWALK AREA; STOP SIGNS ON PRIVATE ROADS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, building, private
road, or driveway within a business or residence district shall stop the
vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area
extending across the alley, building entrance, road, or driveway, or in the
event there is no sidewalk area, shall stop at the point nearest the street to
be entered where the driver has a view of approaching traffic thereon.
(R.C. § 4511.431(A))
   (B)   The owner of a private road or driveway located in a private
residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units may erect stop signs at
places where the road or driveway intersects with another private road or
driveway in the residential area, in compliance with all of the following
requirements:
      (1)   The stop sign is sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily
observant person and meets the specifications of and is placed in accordance
with the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation pursuant to R.C. §
4511.09;
      (2)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road or
driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road or
driveway that they are entering private property, stop signs have been posted
and must be obeyed, and the signs are enforceable by law enforcement officers
under state law. The sign required by this division, where appropriate, may be
incorporated with the sign required by R.C. § 4511.211(A)(2), or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   The provisions of R.C. § 4511.43(A) and R.C. § 4511.46, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be deemed to apply to the
driver of a vehicle on a private road or driveway where a stop sign is placed
in accordance with division (B) of this section and to a pedestrian crossing
such a road or driveway at an intersection where a stop sign is in place.
   (D)   When a stop sign is placed in accordance with division (B) of this
section, any law enforcement officer may apprehend a person found violating the
stop sign and may stop and charge the person with violating the stop sign.
   (E)   As used in this section, and for the purpose of applying R.C. §
4511.43(A) and R.C. § 4511.46, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, to conduct under this section:
      INTERSECTION. Means:
         (a)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two private roads or driveways which join one another at, or
approximately at, right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling
upon different private roads or driveways joining at any other angle may come
in conflict.
         (b)   Where a private road or driveway includes two roadways 30 feet
or more apart, then every crossing of two roadways of such private roads or
driveways shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
      OWNER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.211.
      PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL AREA CONTAINING 20 OR MORE DWELLING UNITS. Has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.211.
      ROADWAY. Means that portion of a private road or driveway improved,
designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder.
If a private road or driveway includes two or more separate roadways, the term
means any such roadway separately but not all such roadways collectively.
(R.C.§ 4511.432(A) - (C), (E))
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. §§ 4511.431(B), 4511.432(D))
   (G)   If the offender violates division (A) of this section while distracted
and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.431(B))
§ 72.034 RIGHT-OF-WAY ON PUBLIC HIGHWAY.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from any
place other than another roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all traffic
approaching on the roadway to be entered or crossed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender violates division (A) of this section while distracted
and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.44)
§ 72.035 PEDESTRIAN ON SIDEWALK HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian
on a sidewalk.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.441)
§ 72.036 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the approach of a public safety vehicle or coroner’s vehicle,
equipped with at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible
under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
the vehicle, and the driver is giving an audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle, or bell, no driver of any other vehicle shall fail to yield the right-
of-way, immediately drive if practical to a position parallel to, and as close
as possible to, the right edge or curb of the highway clear of any
intersection, and stop and remain in that position until the public safety
vehicle or coroner’s vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   (B)   This section does not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle or
coroner’s vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons and property upon the highway.
   (C)   This section applies to a coroner’s vehicle only when the vehicle is
operated in accordance with R.C. § 4513.171, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. As used in this section, CORONER’S VEHICLE means a vehicle
used by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator that is equipped
with a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and a siren, exhaust
whistle or bell capable of giving an audible signal.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division or division (E), whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree on a first offense. On a second offense within one year after the first
offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree, and, on
each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 4511.45)
   (E)   (1)   When the failure of a motor vehicle operator to yield the right-
of-way to a public safety vehicle as required by division (A) of this section
impedes the ability of the public safety vehicle to respond to an emergency,
any emergency personnel in the public safety vehicle may report the license
plate number and a general description of the vehicle and the operator of the
vehicle to the law enforcement agency exercising jurisdiction over the area
where the alleged violation occurred.
      (2)   (a)   Upon receipt of a report under division (E)(1) of this
section, the law enforcement agency may conduct an investigation to attempt to
determine or confirm the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation.
         (b)   If the identity of the operator at the time of an alleged
violation of division (A) of this section is established, the law enforcement
agency has probable cause to issue either a written warning or a citation for
that violation, and the agency shall issue a written warning or a citation to
the operator.
         (c)   If the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency may
issue a written warning to the person who owned the vehicle at the time of the
alleged violation. However, in the case of a leased or rented vehicle, the law
enforcement agency shall issue the written warning to the person who leased or
rented the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation.
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section based on a
report filed under division (E)(1) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and shall be fined $150.
         (b)   If a person who is issued a citation for a violation of division
(A) of this section based on a report filed under division (E)(1) of this
section does not enter a written plea of guilty and does not waive the person’s
right to contest the citation but instead appears in person in the proper court
to answer the charge, the trier of fact cannot find beyond a reasonable doubt
that the person committed that violation unless the emergency personnel who
filed the report appears in person in the court and testifies.
      (4)   As used in this division (E):
         LICENSE PLATE. Includes any temporary motor vehicle license
registration issued under R.C. § 4503.182 or similar law of another
jurisdiction.
         PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Does not include an unmarked public safety
vehicle or a vehicle used by a public law enforcement officer or other person
sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state or a vehicle used
by the motor carrier enforcement unit for the enforcement of orders and rules
of the public utilities commission.
(R.C. § 4511.454)
§ 72.037 FUNERAL PROCESSION HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   As used in this section, FUNERAL PROCESSION means two or more vehicles
accompanying the cremated remains or the body of a deceased person in the
daytime when each of the vehicles has its headlights lighted and is displaying
a purple and white or an orange and white pennant attached to each vehicle in
such a manner as to be clearly visible to traffic approaching from any
direction.
   (B)   Excepting public safety vehicles proceeding in accordance with R.C. §
4511.45 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or when directed
otherwise by a police officer, pedestrians and the operators of all vehicles
shall yield the right-of-way to each vehicle that is a part of a funeral
procession. Whenever the lead vehicle in a funeral procession lawfully enters
an intersection, the remainder of the vehicles in the procession may continue
to follow the lead vehicle through the intersection, notwithstanding any
traffic-control devices or right-of-way provisions of the Ohio Revised Code,
provided that the operator of each vehicle exercises due care to avoid
colliding with any other vehicle or pedestrian.
   (C)   No person shall operate any vehicle as a part of a funeral procession
without having the headlights of the vehicle lighted and without displaying a
purple and white or an orange and white pennant in such a manner as to be
clearly visible to traffic approaching from any direction.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.451)
§ 72.038 PEDESTRIANS YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY TO PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of a public safety vehicle, as stated in
R.C. § 4511.45 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, every
pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to the public safety vehicle.
   (B)   This section shall not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle
from the duty to exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.452)
§ 72.039 PEDESTRIAN ON CROSSWALK HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   When traffic-control signals are not in place, not in operation, or
are not clearly assigning the right-of-way, the driver of a vehicle shall yield
the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if need be to so yield, or if
required by R.C. § 4511.132 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is
upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling, or when the
pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite half of the roadway as
to be in danger.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply under the conditions
stated in R.C. § 4511.48(B), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (F)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.46)
§ 72.040 RIGHT-OF-WAY YIELDED TO BLIND PERSON.
   (A)   (1)   As used in this section BLIND PERSON or BLIND PEDESTRIAN means a
person having not more than 20/200 visual acuity in the better eye with
correcting lenses, or visual acuity greater than 20/200, but with a limitation
in the fields of vision such that the widest diameter of the visual field
subtends an angle no greater than 20 degrees.
      (2)   The driver of every vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to every
blind pedestrian guided by a guide dog, or carrying a cane which is
predominantly white or metallic in color, with or without a red tip.
   (B)   No person, other than a blind person, while on any public highway,
street, alley, or other public thoroughfare, shall carry a white or metallic
cane, with or without a red tip.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.47)
§ 72.041 RIGHT-OF-WAY YIELDED BY PEDESTRIAN.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all traffic upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
   (D)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic control devices; and when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic-control devices pertaining to such crossing movements.
   (E)   This section does not relieve the operator of a vehicle from
exercising due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway.
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.48)
PEDESTRIANS
§ 72.055 PEDESTRIAN MOVEMENT IN CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.49)
§ 72.056 PEDESTRIAN WALKING ALONG HIGHWAY.
   (A)   Where a sidewalk is provided and its use is practicable, it shall be
unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where a sidewalk is not available, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall walk only on a shoulder, as far as practicable from the
edge of the roadway.
   (C)   Where neither a sidewalk nor a shoulder is available, any pedestrian
walking along and upon a highway shall walk as near as practicable to an
outside edge of the roadway, and, if on a two-way roadway, shall walk only on
the left side of the roadway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. §§ 4511.13 and 4511.46, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, any pedestrian upon a roadway
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.50)
§ 72.057 PROHIBITION AGAINST SOLICITING RIDES; RIDING ON OUTSIDE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person while on a roadway outside a safety zone shall solicit a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, no person
shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting employment, business, or
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle.
      (2)   The Legislative Authority, by ordinance, may authorize the issuance
of a permit to a charitable organization to allow a person acting on behalf of
the organization to solicit charitable contributions from the occupant of a
vehicle by standing on a highway, other than a freeway as provided in R.C. §
4511.051(A)(1), that is under the jurisdiction of the municipality. The permit
shall be valid for only one period of time, which shall be specified in the
permit, in any calendar year. The Legislative Authority also may specify the
locations where contributions may be solicited and may impose any other
restrictions on or requirements regarding the manner in which the solicitations
are to be conducted that the Legislative Authority considers advisable.
      (3)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section, CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION
means an organization that has received from the Internal Revenue Service a
currently valid ruling or determination letter recognizing the tax-exempt
status of the organization pursuant to IRC § 501(c)(3).
   (C)   No person shall hang onto or ride on the outside of any motor vehicle
while it is moving upon a roadway, except mechanics or test engineers making
repairs or adjustments, or workers performing specialized highway or street
maintenance or construction under authority of a public agency.
   (D)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person to hang onto or ride on
the outside of any motor vehicle while it is moving upon a roadway, except
mechanics or test engineers making repairs or adjustments, or workers
performing specialized highway or street maintenance or construction under
authority of a public agency.
   (E)   No driver of a truck, trailer, or semitrailer shall knowingly permit
any person who has not attained the age of 16 years to ride in the unenclosed
or unroofed cargo storage area of the driver’s vehicle if the vehicle is
traveling faster than 25 miles per hour, unless either of the following
applies:
      (1)   The cargo storage area of the vehicle is equipped with a properly
secured seat to which is attached a seat safety belt that is in compliance with
federal standards for an occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. §
4513.263(A)(2), the seat and seat safety belt were installed at the time the
vehicle was originally assembled, and the person riding in the cargo storage
area is in the seat and is wearing the seat safety belt; or
      (2)   An emergency exists that threatens the life of the driver or the
person being transported in the cargo storage area of the truck, trailer, or
semitrailer.
   (F)   No driver of a truck, trailer, or semitrailer shall permit any person,
except for those workers performing specialized highway or street maintenance
or construction under authority of a public agency, to ride in the cargo
storage area or on a tailgate of the driver’s vehicle while the tailgate is
unlatched.
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
any provision of divisions (A) through (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates any provision of divisions (A) through (D) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates any provision of
divisions (A) through (D) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (E) or (F) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.51)
§ 72.058 PEDESTRIAN ON BRIDGE OR RAILROAD CROSSING.
   (A)   No pedestrian shall enter or remain upon any bridge or approach
thereto beyond the bridge signal, gate, or barrier after a bridge operation
signal indication has been given.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over, or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while the gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.511)
§ 72.059 PERSONS OPERATING MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIRS.
   Every person operating a motorized wheelchair shall have all of the rights
and duties applicable to a pedestrian that are contained in this chapter,
except those provisions which by their nature can have no application.
(R.C. § 4511.491)
§ 72.060 INTOXICATED OR DRUGGED PEDESTRIAN HAZARD ON HIGHWAY.
   (A)   A pedestrian who is under the influence of alcohol, any drug of abuse,
or any combination of them to a degree that renders the pedestrian a hazard
shall not walk or be upon a highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.481)
§ 72.061 OPERATION OF ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Electric personal assistive mobility devices may be operated on
the public streets, highways, sidewalks, and paths and portions of roadways set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this Traffic Code that by their nature are applicable to an electric personal
assistive mobility device apply to the device and the person operating it
whenever it is operated upon any public street, highway, sidewalk, or path or
upon any portion of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
      (3)   The municipality may regulate or prohibit the operation of electric
personal assistive mobility devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks, and
paths, or portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles,
under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   No operator of an electric personal assistive mobility device shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians and human-powered
vehicles at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         (a)   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet;
         (b)   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle;
      (4)   Operate the device on any portion of a street or highway that has
an established speed limit of 55 miles per hour or more;
      (5)   Operate the device upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of
pedestrians or other specialized use when an appropriate sign giving notice of
the specialized use is posted on the path;
      (6)   If under 18 years of age, operate the device unless wearing a
protective helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened;
      (7)   If under 16 years of age, operate the device unless, during the
operation, the person is under the direct visual and audible supervision of
another person who is 18 years of age or older and is responsible for the
immediate care of the person under 16 years of age.
   (C)   No person who is under 14 years of age shall operate an electric
personal assistive mobility device.
   (D)   No person shall distribute or sell an electric personal assistive
mobility device unless the device is accompanied by a written statement that is
substantially equivalent to the following: “WARNING: TO REDUCE THE RISK OF
SERIOUS INJURY, USE ONLY WHILE WEARING FULL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT – HELMET,
WRIST GUARDS, ELBOW PADS, AND KNEE PADS”.
   (E)   Nothing in this section affects or shall be construed to affect any
rule of the Director of Natural Resources or a board of park district
commissioners governing the operation of vehicles on lands under the control of
the Director or board, as applicable.
   (F)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (B) or (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor and shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   The offender shall be fined $10;
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (B) or (C) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to imposing
the fine required under division (F)(1)(a) of this section, shall do one of the
following:
            1.   Order the impoundment for not less than one day but not more
than 30 days of the electric personal assistive mobility device that was
involved in the current violation of that division. The court shall order the
device to be impounded at a safe indoor location designated by the court and
may assess storage fees of not more than $5 per day; provided the total
storage, processing, and release fees assessed against the offender or the
device in connection with the device’s impoundment or subsequent release shall
not exceed $50.
            2.    If the court does not issue an impoundment order pursuant to
division (F)(1)(b)1. of this section, issue an order prohibiting the offender
from operating any electric personal assistive mobility device on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks, and paths and portions of roadways set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles for not less than one day but not more than 30
days.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.512)
   (G)   As used in this code, ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE
means a self-balancing two non-tandem wheeled device that is designed to
transport only one person, has an electric propulsion system of an average of
750 watts, and when ridden on a paved level surface by an operator who weighs
170 pounds has a maximum speed of less than 20 miles per hour.
(R.C. § 4501.01(TT))
§ 72.062 OPERATION OF PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE ON SIDEWALKS AND CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ELIGIBLE ENTITY. Means a corporation, partnership, association, firm,
sole proprietorship, or other entity engaged in business.
      PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE. Means an electrically powered device to which
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The device is intended primarily to transport property and cargo
on sidewalks and crosswalks.
         (b)   The device weighs less than 250 pounds excluding any property or
cargo being carried in the device.
         (c)   The device has a maximum speed of ten miles per hour.
         (d)   The device is equipped with technology that enables the
operation of the device with active control or monitoring by a person, without
active control or monitoring by a person, or both with or without active
control or monitoring by a person.
      PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE OPERATOR. Means an agent of an eligible entity
who exercises direct physical control over, or monitoring of, the navigation
and operation of a personal delivery device. The phrase does not include, with
respect to a delivery or other service rendered by a personal delivery device,
the person who requests the delivery or service. The phrase also does not
include a person who only arranges for and dispatches a personal delivery
device for a delivery or other service.
   (B)   An eligible entity may operate a personal delivery device on sidewalks
and crosswalks so long as all of the following requirements are met:
      (1)   The personal delivery device is operated in accordance with all
regulations, if any, established by each local authority within which the
personal delivery device is operated.
      (2)   A personal delivery device operator is actively controlling or
monitoring the navigation and operation of the personal delivery device.
      (3)   The eligible entity maintains an insurance policy that includes
general liability coverage of not less than $100,000 for damages arising from
the operation of the personal delivery device by the eligible entity and any
agent of the eligible entity.
      (4)   The device is equipped with all of the following:
         (a)   A marker that clearly identifies the name and contact
information of the eligible entity operating the personal delivery device and a
unique identification number;
         (b)   A braking system that enables the personal delivery device to
come to a controlled stop;
         (c)   If the personal delivery device is being operated between sunset
and sunrise, a light on both the front and rear of the personal delivery device
that is visible in clear weather from a distance of at least 500 feet to the
front and rear of the personal delivery device when directly in front of low
beams of headlights on a motor vehicle.
   (C)   No personal delivery device operator shall allow a personal delivery
device to do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with traffic or pedestrian control devices and
signals;
      (2)   Unreasonably interfere with pedestrians or traffic;
      (3)   Transport any hazardous material that would require a permit issued
by the Public Utilities Commission;
      (4)   Operate on a street or highway, except when crossing the street or
highway within a crosswalk.
   (D)   A personal delivery device has all of the rights and obligations
applicable to a pedestrian under the same circumstances, except that a personal
delivery device shall yield the right-of-way to human pedestrians on sidewalks
and crosswalks.
   (E)   (1)   No person shall operate a personal delivery device unless the
person is authorized to do so under this section and complies with the
requirements of this section.
      (2)   An eligible entity is responsible for both of the following:
         (a)   Any violation of this section that is committed by a personal
delivery device operator; and
         (b)   Any other circumstance, including a technological malfunction,
in which a personal delivery device operates in a manner prohibited by
divisions (C)(1) to (C)(4) of this section.
(R.C. § 4511.513) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.063 LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   A low-speed micromobility device may be operated on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks, and shared-use paths, and may be operated on any
portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance
with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this title that by their nature could apply to a low-speed micromobility device
do apply to the device and the person operating it whenever it is operated upon
any public street, highway, sidewalk, or shared-use path, or upon any portion
of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (B)   No operator of a low-speed micromobility device shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         (a)   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet;
         (b)   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   No person who is under 16 years of age shall rent a low-speed
micromobility device.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device to
a person who is under 16 years of age.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device on
behalf of a person who is under 16 years of age.
   (D)   No person shall operate a low-speed micromobility device at a speed
greater than 20 miles per hour.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Unless a mens rea is otherwise specified in this section, an
offense established under this section is a strict liability offense and R.C. §
2901.20 does not apply. The designation of that offense as a strict liability
offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for which there
is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
   (F)   Notwithstanding division (A)(1) of this section, the municipality,
county, township, metropolitan park district, township park district,
recreation district, or any division of the Ohio Department of Natural
Resources if the division has the approval of the Ohio Director of Natural
Resources may do any of the following:
      (1)   Regulate or prohibit the operation of low-speed micromobility
devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks, and shared-use paths, and
portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, under its
jurisdiction;
      (2)   Include low-speed micromobility devices that are adapted to expand
access for people with various physical limitations into a shared bicycle,
shared electric bicycle, or similar vehicle sharing program, under its
jurisdiction;
      (3)   Require the owner or operator of a low-speed micromobility device
rental service or low-speed micromobility device sharing program to maintain
commercial general liability insurance related to the operation of the devices,
with limits of up to $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 per aggregate.
(R.C. § 4511.514) Penalty, see §
70.99
GRADE CROSSINGS
§ 72.075 STOP SIGNS AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   As used in this section, ACTIVE GRADE CROSSING WARNING DEVICE means
signs, signals, gates, or other protective devices erected or installed at a
public highway-railway crossing at common grade and activated by an electrical
circuit.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities, with the
approval of the Department, may designate dangerous highway crossings over
railroad tracks and erect stop signs thereat.
   (C)   (1)   The Department and local authorities shall erect stop signs at a
railroad highway grade crossing in either of the following circumstances:
         (a)   New warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning
devices are being installed at the grade crossing, and railroad crossbucks were
the only warning devices at the grade crossing prior to the installation of the
new warning devices.
         (b)   The grade crossing is constructed after July 1, 2013, and only
warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning devices are
installed at the grade crossing.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a railroad
highway grade crossing that the Director of Transportation has exempted from
that division because of traffic flow or other considerations or factors.
   (D)   When stop signs are erected pursuant to division (B) or (C) of this
section, the operator of any vehicle shall stop within 50, but not less than
15, feet from the nearest rail of the railroad tracks and shall exercise due
care before proceeding across such grade crossing.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (F)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.61)
§ 72.076 DRIVING VEHICLE ACROSS RAILROAD GRADE CROSSING.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad
grade crossing, the person shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet
from the nearest rail of the railroad if any of the following circumstances
exist at the crossing:
         (a)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a train.
         (b)   A crossing gate is lowered.
         (c)   A flagperson gives or continues to give a signal of the approach
or passage of a train.
         (d)   There is insufficient space on the other side of the railroad
grade crossing to accommodate the vehicle the person is operating without
obstructing the passage of other vehicles, pedestrians or railroad trains,
notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed.
         (e)   An approaching train is emitting an audible signal or is plainly
visible, and is in hazardous proximity to the crossing.
         (f)   There is insufficient undercarriage clearance to safely
negotiate the crossing.
      (2)   A person who is driving a vehicle and who approaches a railroad
grade crossing shall not proceed as long as any of the circumstances described
in divisions (A)(1)(a) through (A)(1)(f) of this section exist at the crossing.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around, or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while the gate or barrier is
closed, or is being opened or closed unless the person is signaled by a law
enforcement officer or flagperson that it is permissible to do so.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.62)
§ 72.077 VEHICLES REQUIRED TO STOP AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the operator of
any bus, any school vehicle, or any vehicle transporting material required to
be placarded under 49 C.F.R. parts 100 through 185, before crossing at grade
any track of a railroad, shall stop the vehicle, and while so stopped, shall
listen through an open door or open window, and look in both directions along
the track for any approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of
a train, and shall proceed only upon exercising due care after stopping,
looking, and listening as required by this section. Upon proceeding, the
operator of such a vehicle shall cross only in a gear that will ensure there
will be no necessity for changing gears while traversing the crossing, and
shall not shift gears while crossing the tracks.
   (B)   This section does not apply at grade crossings when any local
authority has filed an application with the Public Utilities Commission
requesting the approval of an exempt crossing, and the Public Utilities
Commission has authorized and approved an exempt crossing as provided in R.C. §
4511.63(B).
   (C)   As used in this section:
      BUS. Means any vehicle originally designed by its manufacturer to
transport 16 or more passengers, including the driver, or carries 16 or more
passengers, including the driver.
      EXEMPT CROSSING. Means a highway rail grade crossing authorized and
approved by the Public Utilities Commission under R.C. § 4511.63(B) at which
vehicles may cross without making the stop otherwise required by this section.
      SCHOOL VEHICLE. Means any vehicle used for the transportation of pupils
to and from a school or school-related function if the vehicle is owned or
operated by, or operated under contract with, a public or nonpublic school.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or 4511.79, or
a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of those
sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.63)
§ 72.078 SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES OR EQUIPMENT CROSSING RAILROAD TRACKS.
   (A)   No person shall operate or move any crawler-type tractor, steam
shovel, derrick, roller, or any equipment or structure having a normal
operating speed of six or less miles per hour or a vertical body or load
clearance of less than nine inches above the level surface of a roadway, upon
or across any tracks at a railroad grade crossing without first complying with
divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) of this section.
      (1)   Before making any such crossing, the person operating or moving any
such vehicle or equipment shall first stop the same, and while stopped, the
person shall listen and look in both directions along the track for any
approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of a train, and shall
proceed only upon exercising due care.
      (2)   No such crossing shall be made when warning is given by automatic
signal, crossing gates, or a flagperson, or otherwise of the immediate approach
of a railroad train or car.
   (B)   If the normal sustained speed of the vehicle, equipment, or structure
is not more than three miles per hour, the person owning, operating, or moving
the same shall also give notice of the intended crossing to a station agent or
superintendent of the railroad, and a reasonable time shall be given to the
railroad to provide proper protection for the crossing. Where the vehicles or
equipment are being used in constructing or repairing a section of highway
lying on both sides of a railroad grade crossing, and in this construction or
repair it is necessary to repeatedly move the vehicles or equipment over the
crossing, one daily notice specifying when the work will start and stating the
hours during which it will be prosecuted is sufficient.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.64)
§ 72.079 RAISING GRADE OF RAILROAD CROSSING.
   The grade of the State Street railroad crossing shall be and is hereby
prohibited from being raised by any person, partnership, corporation or other
entity, including any successors and assigns thereto,
unless the proposed raise in the grade is first presented to and approved by
Council.
(Ord. 87-12, passed 7-7-1987) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHOOL BUSES
§ 72.090 REGULATIONS CONCERNING SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle, upon meeting or overtaking from either
direction any school bus stopped for the purpose of receiving or discharging
any school child, person attending programs offered by community boards of
mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child
attending a program offered by a head start agency, shall stop at least ten
feet from the front or rear of the school bus and shall not proceed until such
school bus resumes motion, or until signaled by the school bus driver to
proceed. It is no defense to a charge under this division that the school bus
involved failed to display or be equipped with an automatically extended stop
warning sign as required by division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Every school bus shall be equipped with amber and red visual signals
meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.771 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type
approved by the Ohio Department of Education and Workforce, which shall be
actuated by the driver of the bus whenever but only whenever the bus is stopped
or stopping on the roadway for the purpose of receiving or discharging school
children, persons attending programs offered by community boards of mental
health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or children attending
programs offered by head start agencies. A school bus driver shall not actuate
the visual signals or the stop warning sign in designated school bus loading
areas where the bus is entirely off the roadway or at school buildings when
children or persons attending programs offered by community boards of mental
health and county boards of developmental disabilities are loading or unloading
at curbside or at buildings when children attending programs offered by head
start agencies are loading or unloading at curbside. The visual signals and
stop warning sign shall be synchronized or otherwise operated as required by
the Ohio Administrative Code.
   (C)   Where a highway has been divided into four or more traffic lanes, a
driver of a vehicle need not stop for a school bus approaching from the
opposite direction which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or
discharging any school child, persons attending programs offered by community
boards of mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or
children attending programs offered by head start agencies. The driver of any
vehicle overtaking the school bus shall comply with division (A) above.
   (D)   School buses operating on divided highways or on highways with four or
more traffic lanes shall receive and discharge all school children, persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities, and children attending programs offered
by head start agencies on their residence side of the highway.
   (E)   No school bus driver shall start the driver’s bus until after any
child, person attending programs offered by community boards of mental health
and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child attending a program
offered by a head start agency who may have alighted therefrom has reached a
place of safety on the child’s or person’s residence side of the road.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section may be fined an
amount not to exceed $500. A person who is issued a citation for a violation of
division (A) of this section is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty
and waive the person’s right to contest the citation in a trial but instead
must appear in person in the proper court to answer the charge.
      (2)   In addition to and independent of any other penalty provided by
law, the court or mayor may impose upon an offender who violates this section a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7). When a
license is suspended under this section, the court or mayor shall cause the
offender to deliver the license to the court, and the court or clerk of the
court immediately shall forward the license to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles,
together with notice of the court’s action.
   (G)   As used in this section:
      HEAD START AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3301.32.
      SCHOOL BUS. As used in relation to children who attend a program offered
by a head start agency, means a bus that is owned and operated by a head start
agency, is equipped with an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type
approved by the Ohio Department of Education and Workforce, is painted the
color and displays the markings described in R.C. § 4511.77, and is equipped
with amber and red visual signals meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.77,
irrespective of whether or not the bus has 15 or more children aboard at any
time. The term does not include a van owned and operated by a head start
agency, irrespective of its color, lights or markings.
(R.C. § 4511.75)
§ 72.091 VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS; REPORT; INVESTIGATION; CITATION; WARNING.
   (A)   As used in this section, LICENSE PLATE includes but is not limited to
any temporary motor vehicle license registration issued under R.C. § 4503.182
or substantially equivalent law of another jurisdiction.
   (B)   When the operator of a school bus believes that a motorist has
violated R.C. § 4511.75(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
the operator shall report the license plate number and general description of
the vehicle and of the operator of the vehicle to the law enforcement agency
exercising jurisdiction over the area where the alleged violation occurred. The
information contained in the report relating to the license plate number and to
the general description of the vehicle and the operator of the vehicle at the
time of the alleged violation may be supplied by any person with first-hand
knowledge of the information. Information of which the operator of the school
bus has first-hand knowledge also may be corroborated by any other person.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the report of the alleged violation of R.C. § 4511.75
(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the law enforcement
agency shall conduct an investigation to attempt to determine the identity of
the operator of the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation. If the
identity of the operator at the time of the alleged violation is established,
the reporting of the license plate number of the vehicle shall establish
probable cause for the law enforcement agency to issue a citation for the
violation of R.C. § 4511.75(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. However, if the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time
of the alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency
shall issue a warning to the owner of the vehicle at the time of the alleged
violation, except in the case of a leased or rented vehicle when the warning
shall be issued to the lessee at the time of the alleged violation.
(R.C. § 4511.751)
§ 72.092 RESTRICTIONS ON THE OPERATION OF SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle used for pupil transportation within
this municipality in violation of the rules of the Ohio Department of Education
and Workforce or the Ohio Department of Public Safety. No person, being the
owner thereof, or having the supervisory responsibility therefor, shall permit
the operation of a vehicle used for pupil transportation within this
municipality in violation of the rules of the Ohio Department of Education and
Workforce or the Ohio Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   As used in this section, VEHICLE USED FOR PUPIL TRANSPORTATION means
any vehicle that is identified as such by the Ohio Department of Education and
Workforce by rule and that is subject to O.A.C. Chapter 3301-83.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.76, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.76(C), (H), (I))
§ 72.093 SCHOOL BUS INSPECTION.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof,
or having supervisory responsibility therefor, permit the operation of, a
school bus within this municipality, unless there is displayed thereon the
decals issued by the state highway patrol bearing the proper date of inspection
for the calendar year for which the inspection decals were issued.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.761, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (C)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation, issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.761)
§ 72.094 SCHOOL BUS NOT USED FOR SCHOOL PURPOSES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no person who is
the owner of a bus that previously was registered as a school bus that is used
or is to be used exclusively for purposes other than the transportation of
children shall operate the bus or permit it to be operated within this
municipality unless the bus has been painted a color different from that
prescribed for school buses by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance and painted in such a way that the words “stop” and “school
bus” are obliterated.
   (B)   Any church bus that previously was registered as a school bus and is
registered under R.C. § 4503.07 may retain the paint color prescribed for
school buses by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance if the bus complies with all of the following:
      (1)   The words “school bus” required by R.C. § 4511.77 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance are covered or obliterated and the
bus is marked on the front and rear with the words “church bus” painted in
black lettering not less than ten inches in height.
      (2)   The automatically extending stop warning sign required by R.C. §
4511.75 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance is removed and the
word “stop” required by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance is covered or obliterated.
      (3)   The flashing red and amber lights required by R.C. § 4511.771 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance are covered or removed.
      (4)   The inspection decal required by R.C. § 4511.761 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance is covered or removed.
      (5)   The identification number assigned under R.C. § 4511.764 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance and marked in black lettering on
the front and rear of the bus is covered or obliterated.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.762, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (D)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation, issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.762)
§ 72.095 LICENSING BY DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY.
   (A)   No person, partnership, association, or corporation shall transport
pupils to or from school on a school bus or enter into a contract with a board
of education of any school district for the transportation of pupils on a
school bus without being licensed by the Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.763)
§ 72.096 REGISTRATION AND IDENTIFICATION OF SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof
or having supervisory responsibility therefor, permit the operation of a school
bus within this municipality unless there is displayed thereon an identifying
number in accordance with R.C. § 4511.764.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of R.C. § 4511.63,
4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.77, or 4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that
is substantially equivalent to any of those sections, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.764)
§ 72.097 SCHOOL BUS MARKING.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof
or having supervisory responsibility therefor permit the operation of, a school
bus within this municipality unless it is painted national school bus yellow
and is marked on both front and rear with the words “school bus” in black
lettering not less than eight inches in height and on the rear of the bus with
the word “stop” in black lettering not less than ten inches in height.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.77, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (C)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend, for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.77)
§ 72.098 FLASHING LIGHT SIGNAL LAMPS.
   (A)   Every school bus shall, in addition to any other equipment and
distinctive markings required pursuant to R.C. §§ 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.764
and 4511.77, and any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, be equipped
with signal lamps mounted as high as practicable, which shall display to the
front two alternately flashing red lights and two alternately flashing amber
lights located at the same level and to the rear two alternately flashing red
lights and alternately flashing amber lights located at the same level, and
these lights shall be visible at 500 feet in normal sunlight. The alternately
flashing red lights shall be spaced as widely as practicable, and the
alternately flashing amber lights shall be located next to them.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.771)
§ 72.099 OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE FOR OPERATOR.
   (A)   On and after May 6, 1986, no person, school board, or governmental
entity shall purchase, lease, or rent a new school bus unless the school bus
has an occupant restraining device, as defined in R.C. § 4513.263, installed
for use in its operator’s seat.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.772)
PROHIBITIONS
§ 72.115 OBSTRUCTION AND INTERFERENCE AFFECTING VIEW AND CONTROL OF DRIVER.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such number of persons, as to obstruct the view of the
driver to the front or sides of the vehicle, or to interfere with the driver’s
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in a position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with the driver’s
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.70)
§ 72.116 OCCUPYING TRAVEL TRAILER, FIFTH WHEEL VEHICLE, OR MANUFACTURED OR
MOBILE HOME WHILE IN MOTION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no person shall
occupy any travel trailer, fifth wheel trailer, or manufactured or mobile home
while it is being used as a conveyance upon a street or highway.
   (B)   (1)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a fifth wheel
trailer when both of the following apply:
         (a)   Any child riding in the fifth wheel trailer is properly secured
in the manner provided in R.C. § 4511.81.
         (b)   The operator of the vehicle towing the fifth wheel trailer has
some means of viable communication with the passengers riding in the trailer.
      (2)   As used in this division, “viable communication” includes a
cellular or satellite telephone, a radio, or any other similar electronic
wireless communications device.
   (C)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   The offense established under this section is a strict liability
offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this offense as a
strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other
offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict
liability offense.
(R.C. § 4511.701)
§ 72.117 DRIVING UPON CLOSED HIGHWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall drive upon, along, or across a street or highway, or
any part of a street or highway that has been closed in the process of its
construction, reconstruction, or repair, and posted with appropriate signs by
the authority having jurisdiction to close the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.71(A))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on or onto a public street or
highway that is temporarily covered by a rise in water level, including
groundwater or an overflow of water, and that is clearly marked by a sign that
specifies that the road is closed due to the rise in water level and that any
person who uses the closed portion of the road may be fined up to $2,000.
      (2)   A person who is issued a citation for a violation of division (B)
(1) of this section is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty and
waive the person’s right to contest the citation in court, but instead must
appear in person in the proper court to answer the charge.
(R.C. § 4511.714(A), (B))
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If,
within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of
or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
         (b)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.71(B))
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required
under R.C. § 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required under
any provision of law, the court imposing the sentence upon an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (B) of this section
shall order the offender to reimburse one or more rescuers for the cost any
such rescuer incurred in rescuing the person, excluding any cost of
transporting the rescued person to a hospital or other facility for treatment
of injuries, up to a cumulative maximum of $2,000. If more than one rescuer was
involved in the emergency response, the court shall allocate the reimbursement
proportionately, according to the cost each rescuer incurred. A financial
sanction imposed under this section is a judgment in favor of the rescuer and,
subject to a determination of indigency under R.C. § 2929.28(B), a rescuer may
collect the financial sanction in the same manner as provided in R.C. §
2929.28.
(R.C. § 4511.714(C))
   (D)   As used in this section:
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE ORGANIZATION. Has the same meanings as in R.C.
§ 9.60.
      FIREFIGHTING AGENCY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 9.60.
      PRIVATE FIRE COMPANY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 9.60.
      RESCUER. Means a state agency, political subdivision, firefighting
agency, private fire company, or emergency medical service organization.
(R.C. § 4511.714(D))
§ 72.118 DRIVING UPON SIDEWALK AREA OR PATHS EXCLUSIVELY FOR BICYCLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall drive any vehicle, other than a bicycle or an
electric bicycle if the motor is not engaged, upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area,
except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway.
      (2)   This prohibition does not apply to a law enforcement officer, or
other person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state, using
an electric bicycle with the motor engaged while in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting local
authorities from regulating the operation of bicycles or electric bicycles,
except that no local authority may require that bicycles or electric bicycles
be operated on sidewalks.
(R.C. § 4511.711(A))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, snowmobile, or all-
purpose vehicle upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, when
an appropriate sign giving notice of such use is posted on the path.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect any rule of
the Director of Natural Resources governing the operation of motor vehicles,
snowmobiles, all-purpose vehicles, and bicycles on lands under the Director’s
jurisdiction.
(R.C. § 4511.713(A))
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.711(B), 4511.713(B))
§ 72.119 OBSTRUCTING PASSAGE OF OTHER VEHICLES.
   (A)   No driver shall enter an intersection or marked crosswalk, or drive
onto any railroad grade crossing, unless there is sufficient space on the other
side of the intersection, crosswalk, or grade crossing to accommodate the
vehicle the driver is operating without obstructing the passage of other
vehicles, pedestrians, or railroad trains, notwithstanding any traffic-control
signal indication to proceed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.712)
§ 72.120 FOLLOWING AN EMERGENCY OR PUBLIC VEHICLE PROHIBITED; APPROACHING
STATIONARY PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE AND CERTAIN OTHER VEHICLES WITH CAUTION.
   (A)   Following an emergency or public vehicle prohibited. The driver of any
vehicle, other than an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle on official
business, shall not follow any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle
traveling in response to an alarm closer than 500 feet, or drive into or park
the vehicle within the block where the fire apparatus has stopped in answer to
a fire alarm, unless directed to do so by a police officer or a firefighter.
(R.C. § 4511.72(A))
   (B)   Approaching stationary public safety vehicle with caution.
      (1)   The driver of a motor vehicle, upon approaching a stationary public
safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste collection
vehicle, vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor
vehicle inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a
highway maintenance vehicle that is displaying the appropriate visual signals
by means of flashing, oscillating, or rotating lights, as prescribed in R.C. §
4513.17, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   If the driver of the motor vehicle is traveling on a highway
that consists of at least two lanes that carry traffic in the same direction of
travel as that of the driver’s motor vehicle, the driver shall proceed with due
caution and, if possible and with due regard to the road, weather, and traffic
conditions, shall change lanes into a lane that is not adjacent to that of the
stationary public safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle,
waste collection vehicle, vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to
conduct motor vehicle inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and
4923.06, or a highway maintenance vehicle.
         (b)   If the driver is not traveling on a highway of a type described
in division (B)(1)(a) of this section, or if the driver is traveling on a
highway of that type but it is not possible to change lanes or if to do so
would be unsafe, the driver shall proceed with due caution, reduce the speed of
the motor vehicle, and maintain a safe speed for the road, weather, and traffic
conditions.
      (2)   This division (B) does not relieve the driver of a public safety
vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste collection vehicle,
vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor vehicle
inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a highway
maintenance vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of
all persons and property upon the highway.
      (3)   No person shall fail to drive a motor vehicle in compliance with
divisions (B)(1)(a) or (B)(1)(b) of this section when so required by division
(B) of this section.
(R.C. § 4511.213(A) - (C))
   (C)   Penalty.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding §
130.99 or R.C. § 2929.28, upon a finding that a person operated a motor vehicle
in violation of division (B)(3) of this section, the court, in addition to all
other penalties provided by law, shall impose a fine of two times the usual
amount imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.213(D), 4511.72(B))
   (D)   The offense established under division (B) of this section is a strict
liability offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this
offense as a strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any
other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a
strict liability offense.
(R.C. §§ 4511.213(E))
§ 72.121 DRIVING OVER UNPROTECTED FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall, without the consent of the fire department official
in command, be driven over any unprotected hose of a fire department that is
laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or alarm of
fire.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.73)
§ 72.122 PLACING INJURIOUS MATERIAL ON HIGHWAY OR DEPOSITING LITTER FROM MOTOR
VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a
highway, lane, road, street, or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails,
or other articles which may damage or injure any person, vehicle, or animal
traveling along or upon the highway, except such substances that may be placed
upon the roadway by proper authority for the repair or construction thereof.
      (2)   Any person who drops or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
highway any destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove the
same.
      (3)   Any person authorized to remove a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a
highway shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the
highway from such vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall place any obstruction in or upon a highway without
proper authority.
   (B)   No person, with intent to cause physical harm to a person or a
vehicle, shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a highway, lane, road,
street, or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails, or other articles
which may damage or injure any person, vehicle, or animal traveling along or
upon such highway, except such substances that may be placed upon the roadway
by proper authority for the repair or construction thereof.
(R.C. § 4511.74(A), (B))
   (C)   No operator or occupant of a motor vehicle shall, regardless of
intent, throw, drop, discard, or deposit litter from any motor vehicle in
operation upon any street, road, or highway, except into a litter receptacle in
a manner that prevents its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (D)   No operator of a motor vehicle in operation upon any street, road, or
highway shall allow litter to be thrown, dropped, discarded, or deposited from
the motor vehicle, except into a litter receptacle in a manner that prevents
its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (E)   As used in this section, LITTER means garbage, trash, waste, rubbish,
ashes, cans, bottles, wire, paper, cartons, boxes, automobile parts, furniture,
glass, or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
(R.C. § 4511.82(A), (B), (D))
   (F)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4511.74(C))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.82(C))
§ 72.123 TRANSPORTING CHILD NOT IN CHILD RESTRAINT SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly secured in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child
restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age;
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (B)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab, that is owned,
leased, or otherwise under the control of a nursery school or child care
center, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child properly secured
in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child restraint system
that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age;
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (C)   When any child who is less than eight years of age and less than four
feet nine inches in height, who is not required by division (A) or (B) of this
section to be secured in a child restraint system, is being transported in a
motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01 or a vehicle that is regulated under R.C. § 5104.015, that is
required by the United States Department of Transportation to be equipped with
seat belts at the time of manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor
vehicle shall have the child properly secured in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions on a booster seat that meets federal motor vehicle
safety standards.
   (D)   When any child who is at least eight years of age but not older than
15 years of age, and who is not otherwise required by division (A), (B), or (C)
of this section to be secured in a child restraint system or booster seat, is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly restrained either in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions
in a child restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards
or in an occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. § 4513.263.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause an operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section or causing the
arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of division
(C) or (D) of this section, and absent another violation of law, a law
enforcement officer’s view of the interior or visual inspection of a motor
vehicle being operated on any street or highway may not be used for the purpose
of determining whether a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section has
been or is being committed.
   (F)   The Director of Public Safety shall adopt such rules as are necessary
to carry out this section.
   (G)   The failure of an operator of a motor vehicle to secure a child in a
child restraint system, a booster seat, or an occupant restraining device as
required in this section is not negligence imputable to the child, is not
admissible as evidence in any civil action involving the rights of the child
against any other person allegedly liable for injuries to the child, is not to
be used as a basis for a criminal prosecution of the operator of the motor
vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section, and is not
admissible as evidence in any criminal action involving the operator of the
motor vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
   (H)   This section does not apply when an emergency exists that threatens
the life of any person operating or occupying a motor vehicle that is being
used to transport a child who otherwise would be required to be restrained
under this section. This section does not apply to a person operating a motor
vehicle who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4731 or a chiropractor licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4734 that states that the child who otherwise would be
required to be restrained under this section has a physical impairment that
makes use of a child restraint system, booster seat, or an occupant restraining
device impossible or impractical, provided that the person operating the
vehicle has safely and appropriately restrained the child in accordance with
any recommendations of the physician or chiropractor as noted on the affidavit.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any person to
carry with the person the birth certificate of a child to prove the age of the
child, but the production of a valid birth certificate for a child showing that
the child was not of an age to which this section applies is a defense against
any ticket, citation, or summons issued for violating this section.
   (J)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section
shall be punished as follows, provided that the failure of an operator of a
motor vehicle to secure more than one child in a child restraint system,
booster seat, or occupant restraining device as required by this section that
occurred at the same time, on the same day, and at the same location is deemed
to be a single violation of this section:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (J)(1)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not
less than $25 nor more than $75.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section or of a
state law or municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent any of those
divisions, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   All fines imposed pursuant to division (J)(1) of this section shall
be forwarded to the State Treasurer for deposit in the Child Highway Safety
Fund created by R.C. § 4511.81(I).
(R.C. § 4511.81(A) - (H), (K), (L))
§ 72.124 OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICES.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      AUTOMOBILE. Means any commercial tractor, passenger car, commercial car,
or truck that is required to be factory-equipped with an occupant restraining
device for the operator or any passenger by regulations adopted by the United
States Secretary of Transportation pursuant to the “National Traffic and Motor
Vehicle Safety Act of 1966”, 80 Stat. 719, 15 U.S.C. § 1392.
      COMMERCIAL CAR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      COMMERCIAL TRACTOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE. A seat safety belt, shoulder belt, harness,
or other safety device for restraining a person who is an operator of or
passenger in an automobile and that satisfies the minimum federal vehicle
safety standards established by the United States Department of Transportation.
      PASSENGER. Any person in an automobile, other than its operator, who is
occupying a seating position for which an occupant restraining device is
provided.
      PASSENGER CAR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      TORT ACTION. A civil action for damages for injury, death, or loss to
person or property. The term includes a product liability claim, as defined in
R.C. § 2307.71, and as asbestos claim, as defined in R.C. § 2307.91, but does
not include a civil action for damages for breach of contract or another
agreement between persons.
      VEHICLE and MOTOR VEHICLE. As used in the definitions of the terms set
forth above, VEHICLE and MOTOR VEHICLE have the same meanings as in R.C. §
4511.01.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless he or she is
wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device, or operate a school bus that has an occupant restraining
device installed for use in its operator’s seat unless he or she is wearing all
of the available elements of the device, as properly adjusted.
      (2)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless each
passenger in the automobile who is subject to the requirement set forth in
division (B)(3) of this section is wearing all of the available elements of a
properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
      (3)   Occupy, as a passenger, a seating position on the front seat of an
automobile being operated on any street or highway unless he or she is wearing
all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining
device.
      (4)   Operate a taxicab on any street or highway unless all factory-
equipped occupant restraining devices in the taxicab are maintained in usable
form.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Division (B)(3) of this section does not apply to a person who is
required by R.C. § 4511.81 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to
be secured in a child restraint device or booster seat.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
an employee of the United States Postal Service or of a newspaper home delivery
service, during any period in which the person is engaged in the operation of
an automobile to deliver mail or newspapers to addressees.
      (3)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(3) of this section do not apply to a
person who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4731 or a chiropractor licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4734 that states the following:
         (a)   That the person has a physical impairment that makes use of an
occupant restraining device impossible or impractical;
         (b)   Whether the physical impairment is temporary, permanent, or
reasonably expected to be permanent;
         (c)   If the physical impairment is temporary, how long the physical
impairment is expected to make the use of an occupant restraining device
impossible or impractical.
      (4)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(3) of this section do not apply to a
person who has registered with the Registrar of Motor Vehicles in accordance
with division (C)(5) of this section.
      (5)   A person who has received an affidavit under division (C)(3) of
this section stating that the person has a permanent or reasonably expected to
be permanent physical impairment that makes use of an occupant restraining
device impossible or impracticable may register with the Registrar of Motor
Vehicles attesting to that fact. Upon such registration, the Registrar shall
make that information available in the law enforcement automated data system. A
person included in the database under division (C)(5) of this section is not
required to have the affidavit obtained in accordance with division (C)(3) of
this section in their possession while operating or occupying an automobile.
      (6)   A physician or chiropractor who issues an affidavit for the
purposes of division (C)(3) or (C)(4) of this section is immune from civil
liability arising from any injury or death sustained by the person who was
issued the affidavit due to the failure of the person to wear an occupant
restraining device unless the physician or chiropractor, in issuing the
affidavit, acted in a manner that constituted willful, wanton, or reckless
misconduct.
      (7)   The Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 establishing a process for a person to be included in the
database under division (C)(5) of this section. The information provided and
included in the database under division (C)(5) of this section is not a public
record subject to inspection or copying under R.C. § 149.43.
   (D)   Officers not permitted to stop cars to determine violation.
Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law enforcement
officer shall cause an operator of an automobile being operated on any street
or highway to stop the automobile for the sole purpose of determining whether a
violation of division (B) of this section has been or is being committed or for
the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or summons for the violation or
for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for the
violation. No law enforcement officer shall view the interior or visually
inspect any automobile being operated on any street or highway for the sole
purpose of determining whether the violation has been or is being committed.
   (E)   Use of fines for educational program. All fines collected for
violations of division (B) of this section shall be forwarded to the State
Treasurer for deposit in the funds as set forth in R.C. § 4513.263(E).
   (F)   Limitations on evidence used for prosecution.
      (1)   Subject to division (F)(2) of this section, the failure of a person
to wear all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device in violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(3) of this section or
the failure of a person to ensure that each minor who is a passenger of an
automobile being operated by that person is wearing all of the available
elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device in violation of
division (B)(2) of this section shall not be considered or used by the trier of
fact in a tort action as evidence of negligence or contributory negligence.
But, the trier of fact may determine based on evidence admitted consistent with
the Ohio Rules of Evidence that the failure contributed to the harm alleged in
the tort action and may diminish a recovery of compensatory damages that
represents non-economic loss, as defined in R.C. § 2307.011, in a tort action
that could have been recovered but for the plaintiff’s failure to wear all of
the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
Evidence of that failure shall not be used as a basis for a criminal
prosecution of the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this
section; and shall not be admissible as evidence in a criminal action involving
the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
      (2)   If, at the time of an accident involving a passenger car equipped
with occupant restraining devices, any occupant of the passenger car who
sustained injury or death was not wearing an available occupant restraining
device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a device, or was
not wearing such a device as properly adjusted, then, consistent with the Rules
of Evidence, the fact that the occupant was not wearing the available occupant
restraining device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a
device, or was not wearing such a device as properly adjusted is admissible in
evidence in relation to any claim for relief in a tort action to the extent
that the claim for relief satisfies all of the following:
         (a)   It seeks to recover damages for injury or death to the occupant;
         (b)   The defendant in question is the manufacturer, designer,
distributor, or seller of the passenger car;
         (c)   The claim for relief against the defendant in question is that
the injury or death sustained by the occupant was enhanced or aggravated by
some design defect in the passenger car or that the passenger car was not
crashworthy.
   (G)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section shall be fined
$30.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) shall be subject to the penalty
set forth in §
70.99(B).
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section shall be fined
$20.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B)(4) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
division (B)(4) of this section, whoever violates division (B)(4) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4513.263)
Cross-reference:
       Child restraint systems, see §
72.123
       Installation and sale of seat safety belts, see §
74.33
       School bus operators, restraining devices, see §
72.099
§ 72.125 USE OF ENGINE BRAKES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The non-emergency use of engine brakes within the municipality is
prohibited.
   (B)   As used in this section, ENGINE BRAKES shall be defined to include but
is not limited to Jake Brakes, Jacobs Brakes, C Brakes, PacBrakes, TekBrakes,
and any other type of engine retarders commonly utilized within the trucking
industry.
   (C)   This section does not apply to emergency vehicles operated by fire,
police, or military units.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
§ 72.126 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE WHILE WEARING EARPHONES OR EARPLUGS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      EARPHONES. Any device that covers all or a portion of both ears and that
does either of the following:
         (a)   Through either a physical connection to another device or a
wireless connection, provides the listener with radio programs, music, or other
information;
         (b)   Provides hearing protection.
      EARPHONES does not include speakers or other listening devices that are
built into protective headgear.
      EARPLUGS. Any device that can be inserted into one or both ears and that
does either of the following:
         (a)   Through either a physical connection to another device or a
wireless connection, provides the listener with radio programs, music, or other
information;
         (b)   Provides hearing protection.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle while wearing earphones over,
or earplugs in, both ears.
   (C)   This section does not apply to:
      (1)   Any person wearing a hearing aid;
      (2)   Law enforcement personnel while on duty;
      (3)   Fire Department personnel and emergency medical service personnel
while on duty;
      (4)   Any person engaged in the operation of equipment for use in the
maintenance or repair of any highway;
      (5)   Any person engaged in the operation of refuse collection equipment;
      (6)   Any person wearing earphones or earplugs for hearing protection
while operating a motorcycle.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.84)
§ 72.127 CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINES AND LIVERY SERVICES.
   (A)   The operator of a chauffeured limousine shall accept passengers only
on the basis of prearranged contracts, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, and shall
not cruise in search of patronage unless the limousine is in compliance with
any statute or ordinance governing the operation of taxicabs or other similar
vehicles for hire.
   (B)   The operator of a chauffeured limousine may provide transportation to
passengers who arrange for the transportation through an intermediary,
including a digital dispatching service. Notwithstanding any law to the
contrary, when providing transportation arranged through an intermediary, the
operator of a chauffeured limousine may establish the fare and method of fare
calculation, so long as the method of fare calculation is provided to the
passenger upon request.
   (C)   No person shall advertise or hold himself or herself out as doing
business as a limousine service or livery service or other similar designation
unless each vehicle used by the person to provide the service is registered in
accordance with R.C. § 4503.24 and is in compliance with R.C. § 4509.80.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.85)
Statutory reference:
   Chauffeured limousine, motor vehicle licensing, see R.C. § 4503.24
   Proof of financial responsibility, see R.C. § 4509.80
§ 72.128 OPERATING TRACTION ENGINE UPON IMPROVED HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   No person shall drive over the improved highways of this municipality
a traction engine or tractor with tires or wheels equipped with ice picks,
spuds, spikes, chains or other projections of any kind extending beyond the
cleats, and no person shall tow or in any way pull another vehicle over the
improved highways of this municipality which towed or pulled vehicle has tires
or wheels equipped with ice picks, spuds, spikes, chains or other projections
of any kind. As used in this section, “traction engine” or “tractor” applies to
all self-propelling engines equipped with metal-tired wheels operated or
propelled by any form of engine, motor or mechanical power.
   (B)   This municipality shall not adopt, enforce, or maintain any ordinance,
rule or regulation contrary to or inconsistent with division (A), nor shall
this municipality require any license tax upon or registration fee for any
traction engine, tractor, or trailer, or any permit or license to operate.
Operators of traction engines or tractors shall have the same rights upon the
public streets and highways as the drivers of any other vehicles, unless some
other safe and convenient way is provided, and no public road open to traffic
shall be closed to traction engines or tractors.
(R.C. § 5589.08)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
§ 72.129 CRACKING EXHAUST NOISES; PEELING OUT.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe
operation, or in compliance with law, in such a manner that the vehicle is so
rapidly accelerated or started from a stopped position, or in the shifting of
gears while in motion, that the exhaust system emits a loud, cracking or
chattering noise unusual to its normal operation, or that the rubber tires of
such vehicle squeal or leave tire marks on the roadway, commonly known as
“peeling out”.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.130 SHORTCUTTING ACROSS PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No operator of a motor vehicle shall enter upon private property for the
sole purpose of driving across such property, between abutting streets or other
public ways thereof. The failure to stop on such property in connection with or
in furtherance of the enterprise or activities being conducted on the property
shall constitute prima facie evidence of the violation.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.131 TEXTING WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street, highway, or
property open to the public for vehicular traffic while using, holding, or
physically supporting with any part of the person’s body an electronic wireless
communications device.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device to make
contact, for emergency purposes, with a law enforcement agency, hospital or
health care provider, fire department, or other similar emergency agency or
entity;
      (2)   A person driving a public safety vehicle while using an electronic
wireless communications device in the course of the person’s duties;
      (3)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device when
the person’s motor vehicle is in a stationary position and is outside a lane of
travel, at a traffic control signal that is currently directing traffic to
stop, or parked on a road or highway due to an emergency or road closure;
      (4)   A person using and holding an electronic wireless communications
device directly near the person’s ear for the purpose of making, receiving, or
conducting a telephone call, provided that the person does not manually enter
letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
      (5)   A person receiving wireless messages on an electronic wireless
communications device regarding the operation or navigation of a motor vehicle;
safety-related information, including emergency, traffic, or weather alerts; or
data used primarily by the motor vehicle, provided that the person does not
hold or support the device with any part of the person’s body;
      (6)   A person using the speaker phone function of the electronic
wireless communications device, provided that the person does not hold or
support the device with any part of the person’s body;
      (7)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device for
navigation purposes, provided that the person does not do either of the
following during the use:
         (a)   Manually enter letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
         (b)   Hold or support the device with any part of the person’s body;
      (8)   A person using a feature or function of the electronic wireless
communications device with a single touch or single swipe, provided that the
person does not do either of the following during the use:
         (a)   Manually enter letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
         (b)   Hold or support the device with any part of the person’s body;
      (9)   A person operating a commercial truck while using a mobile data
terminal that transmits and receives data;
      (10)   A person operating a utility service vehicle or a vehicle for or
on behalf of a utility, if the person is acting in response to an emergency,
power outage, or circumstance that affects the health or safety of individuals;
      (11)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device in
conjunction with a voice-operated or hands-free feature or function of the
vehicle or of the device without the use of either hand except to activate,
deactivate, or initiate the feature or function with a single touch or swipe,
provided the person does not hold or support the device with any part of the
person’s body;
      (12)   A person using technology that physically or electronically
integrates the device into the motor vehicle, provided that the person does not
do either of the following during the use:
         (a)   Manually enter letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
         (b)   Hold or support the device with any part of the person’s body.
      (13)   A person storing an electronic wireless communications device in a
holster, harness, or article of clothing on the person’s body.
   (C)   If a law enforcement officer issues an offender a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of division (A) of this section, the officer shall do
both of the following:
      (1)   Report the issuance of the ticket, citation, or summons to the
officer’s law enforcement agency;
      (2)   Ensure that such report indicates the offender’s race.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of operating a
motor vehicle while using an electronic wireless communication device, an
unclassified misdemeanor, and shall be punished as provided in divisions (D)(1)
to (D)(5) of this section.
      (1)   The offender shall be fined, and is subject to a suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege, as follows:
         (a)   Except as provided in divisions (D)(1)(b), (D)(1)(c), (D)(1)(d),
and (D)(2) of this section, the court shall impose upon the offender a fine of
not more than $150.
         (b)   If, within two years of the violation, the offender has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one prior violation of this section, R.C. §
4511.204, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court shall
impose upon the offender a fine of not more than $250.
         (c)   If, within two years of the violation, the offender has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more prior violations of this section,
R.C. § 4511.204, or a substantially equivalent or municipal ordinance, the
court shall impose upon the offender a fine of not more than $500. The court
also may impose a suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or
nonresident operating privilege for 90 days.
         (d)   Notwithstanding divisions (D)(1)(a) to (D)(1)(c) of this
section, if the offender was operating the motor vehicle at the time of the
violation in a construction zone where a sign was posted in accordance with
R.C. § 4511.98, the court, in addition to all other penalties provided by law,
shall impose upon the offender a fine of two times the amount imposed for the
violation under division (D)(1)(a), (D)(1)(b), or (D)(1)(c) of this section, as
applicable.
      (2)   If the offender is in the category of offenders to whom division
(D)(1)(a) of this section applies, in lieu of payment of the fine of $150 under
division (D)(1)(a) of this section and the assessment of points under division
(D)(4) of this section, the offender instead may elect to attend the distracted
driving safety course, as described in R.C. § 4511.991. If the offender attends
and successfully completes the course, the offender shall be issued written
evidence that the offender successfully completed the course. The offender
shall not be required to pay the fine and shall not have the points assessed
against that offender’s driver’s license if the offender submits the written
evidence to the court within 90 days of the violation of division (A) of this
section. However, successful completion of the course does not result in a
dismissal of the charges for the violation, and the violation is a prior
offense under divisions (D)(1)(b) and (D)(1)(c) of this section if the offender
commits a subsequent violation or violations of division (A) of this section
within two years of the offense for which the course was completed. This
division does not apply with respect to any offender in the category of
offenders to whom division (D)(1)(b), (D)(1)(c), or (D)(1)(d) of this section
applies.
      (3)   The court may impose any other penalty authorized under R.C. §§
2929.21 to 2929.28. However, the court shall not impose a fine or a suspension
not otherwise specified in division (D)(1) of this section. The court also
shall not impose a jail term or community residential sanction.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (D)(2) of this section, points shall
be assessed for a violation of division (A) of this section in accordance with
R.C. § 4510.036.
      (5)   The offense established under this section is a strict liability
offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this offense as a
strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other
offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict
liability offense.
   (E)   A prosecution for an offense in violation of this section does not
preclude a prosecution for an offense in violation of R.C. § 4511.204 based on
the same conduct. However, the two offenses are allied offenses of similar
import under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (F)   (1)   A law enforcement officer does not have probable cause and shall
not stop the operator of a motor vehicle for purposes of enforcing this section
unless the officer visually observes the operator using, holding, or physically
supporting with any part of the person’s body the electronic wireless
communications device.
      (2)   A law enforcement officer who stops the operator of a motor vehicle
for a violation of division (A) of this section shall inform the operator that
the operator may decline a search of the operator’s electronic wireless
communications device. The officer shall not do any of the following:
         (a)   Access the device without a warrant, unless the operator
voluntarily and unequivocally gives consent for the officer to access the
device;
         (b)   Confiscate the device while awaiting the issuance of a warrant
to access the device;
         (c)   Obtain consent from the operator to access the device through
coercion or any other improper means. Any consent by the operator to access the
device shall be voluntary and unequivocal before the officer may access the
device without a warrant.
   (G)   As used in this section:
      ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Includes any of the following:
         (a)   A wireless telephone;
         (b)   A text-messaging device;
         (c)   A personal digital assistant;
         (d)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
         (e)   Any device capable of displaying a video, movie, broadcast
television image, or visual image;
         (f)   Any other substantially similar wireless device that is designed
or used to communicate text, initiate or receive communication, or exchange
information or data.
      An “electronic wireless communications device” does not include a two-way
radio transmitter or receiver used by a person who is licensed by the federal
communications commission to participate in the amateur radio service.
      UTILITY. An entity specified in R.C. § 4905.03(A), (C), (D), (E), or (G).
      UTILITY SERVICE VEHICLE. A vehicle owned or operated by a utility.
      VOICE-OPERATED OR HANDS-FREE FEATURE OR FUNCTION. A feature or function
that allows a person to use an electronic wireless communications device
without the use of either hand, except to activate, deactivate, or initiate the
feature or function with a single touch or single swipe.
(R.C. § 4511.204)
Statutory reference:
   No preemption for local regulations imposing greater penalties, see R.C. §
4511.204(E)
§ 72.132 USE OF ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICES BY MINORS OR
PROBATIONARY DRIVERS WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit who has not attained the
age of 18 years and no holder of a probationary driver’s license shall drive a
motor vehicle on any street, highway, or property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking while using in any manner an
electronic wireless communications device.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to either of the
following:
      (1)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device for
emergency purposes, including an emergency contact with a law enforcement
agency, hospital or health care provider, fire department, or other similar
emergency agency or entity;
      (2)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device whose
motor vehicle is in a stationary position and the motor vehicle is outside a
lane of travel;
      (3)   A person using a navigation device in a voice-operated or hands-
free manner who does not manipulate the device while driving.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (A) of this section shall be fined $150. In addition, the
court shall impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license
or permit for a definite period of 60 days.
      (2)   If the person previously has been adjudicated a delinquent child or
a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of this section, whoever violates
this section shall be fined $300. In addition, the court shall impose a class
seven suspension of the person’s driver’s license or permit for a definite
period of one year.
   (D)   The filing of a sworn complaint against a person for a violation of
this section does not preclude the filing of a sworn complaint for a violation
of R.C. § 4511.205 for the same conduct. However, if a person is adjudicated a
delinquent child or a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of this section
and is also adjudicated a delinquent child or a juvenile traffic offender for a
violation of R.C. § 4511.205 for the same conduct, the two offenses are allied
offenses of similar import under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (E)   As used in this section, ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE
includes any of the following:
      (1)   A wireless telephone;
      (2)   A personal digital assistant;
      (3)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
      (4)   A text-messaging device;
      (5)   Any other substantially similar electronic wireless device that is
designed or used to communicate via voice, image, or written word.
(R.C. § 4511.205)
CHAPTER 73: MOTOR VEHICLE CRIMES
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs
   
73.02   Implied consent
   
73.03   Physical control of vehicle while under the influence
   
73.04   Driving commercial vehicle with impaired alertness or ability; use of
drugs
   
73.05   Reckless operation of vehicles
   
73.06   Reckless operation off streets and highways; competitive operation
   
73.07   Operator to be in reasonable control
   
73.08   Immobilizing or disabling device violation
   
73.09   Street racing defined; prohibited on public highways
   
73.10   Speed limits
   
73.11   Slow speed or stopping
   
73.12   Emergency vehicles excepted from speed limitation
   
73.13   Speed regulations on bridges
   
73.14   Presenting false name or information to officer
   
73.15   Prohibition against resisting officer
   
73.16   Operation restricted for mini-trucks and low-speed, under-speed, or
utility vehicles
Stopping After Accident
   
73.30   Failure to stop after accident
   
73.31   Stopping after accident on other than public roads or highways
   
73.32   Accident involving damage to realty
   
73.33   Failure to report accident
Statutory reference:
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL OR DRUGS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate any vehicle within this municipality,
if, at the time of the operation, any of the following apply:
         (a)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse,
or a combination of them.
         (b)   The person has a concentration of 0.08% or more but less than
0.17% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
         (c)   The person has a concentration of 0.096% or more but less than
0.204% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma.
         (d)   The person has a concentration of 0.08 grams or more but less
than 0.17 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
         (e)   The person has a concentration of 0.11 grams or more but less
than 0.238 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s
urine.
         (f)   The person has a concentration of 0.17% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
         (g)   The person has a concentration of 0.204% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or plasma.
         (h)   The person has a concentration of 0.17 grams or more by weight
of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
         (i)   The person has a concentration of 0.238 grams or more by weight
of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
         (j)   Except as provided in division (K) of this section, the person
has a concentration of any of the following controlled substances or
metabolites of a controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum
or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds any of the following:
            1.   The person has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s
urine of at least 500 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter
of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            2.   The person has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s
urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s urine
or has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            3.   The person has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine metabolite per milliliter
of the person’s urine or has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms of
cocaine metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            4.   The person has a concentration of heroin in the person’s urine
of at least 2,000 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s urine or
has a concentration of heroin in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            5.   The person has a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-
monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s urine of at least ten nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s urine or has
a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least ten nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s whole blood
or blood serum or plasma.
            6.   The person has a concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s urine
of at least 25 nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s urine or a
concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of
at least ten nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma.
            7.   The person has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s
urine of at least ten nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least two nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            8.   Either of the following applies:
               a.   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or a combination of them, and the person has a concentration of
marihuana metabolite in the person’s urine of at least 15 nanograms of
marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s urine or has a
concentration of marihuana metabolite in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least five nanograms of marihuana metabolite per
milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
               b.   The person has a concentration of marihuana metabolite in
the person’s urine of at least 35 nanograms of marihuana metabolite per
milliliter of the person’s urine or has a concentration of marihuana metabolite
in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms
of marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma.
            9.   The person has a concentration of methamphetamine in the
person’s urine of at least 500 nanograms of methamphetamine per milliliter of
the person’s urine or has a concentration of methamphetamine in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of
methamphetamine per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            10.   The person has a concentration of phencyclidine in the
person’s urine of at least 25 nanograms of phencyclidine per milliliter of the
person’s urine or has a concentration of phencyclidine in the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma of at least ten nanograms of phencyclidine per
milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            11.   The State Board of Pharmacy has adopted a rule pursuant to
R.C. § 4729.041 that specifies the amount of salvia divinorum and the amount of
salvinorin A that constitute concentrations of salvia divinorum and salvinorin
A in a person’s urine, in a person’s whole blood, or in a person’s blood serum
or plasma at or above which the person is impaired for purposes of operating
any vehicle within this state, the rule is in effect, and the person has a
concentration of salvia divinorum or salvinorin A of at least that amount so
specified by rule in the person’s urine, in the person’s whole blood, or in the
person’s blood serum or plasma.
      (2)   No person who, within 20 years of the conduct described in division
(A)(2)(a) of this section, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of this division or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or any other
equivalent offense shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Operate any vehicle within this municipality while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them;
         (b)   Subsequent to being arrested for operating the vehicle as
described in division (A)(2)(a) of this section, being asked by a law
enforcement officer to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and being advised by the
officer in accordance with R.C. § 4511.192 or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance of the consequences of the person’s refusal or submission
to the test or tests, refuse to submit to the test or tests.
   (B)   No person under 21 years of age shall operate any vehicle within this
municipality, if, at the time of the operation, any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02% but less than
0.08% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
      (2)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.03% but less than
0.096% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma.
      (3)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02 grams but less than
0.08 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
      (4)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.028 grams but less
than 0.11 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
   (C)   In any proceeding arising out of one incident, a person may be charged
with a violation of division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(2) and a violation of division
(B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section, but the person may not be convicted
of more than one violation of these divisions.
   (D)   (1)   (a)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding
for a violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section or for an equivalent
offense that is vehicle-related, the result of any test of any blood or urine
withdrawn and analyzed at any health care provider, as defined in R.C. §
2317.02, may be admitted with expert testimony to be considered with any other
relevant and competent evidence in determining the guilt or innocence of the
defendant.
         (b)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of division (A) or
(B) of this section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, the
court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol, drugs of abuse,
controlled substances, metabolites of a controlled substance, or a combination
of them in the defendant’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine,
or other bodily substance at the time of the alleged violation as shown by
chemical analysis of the substance withdrawn within three hours of the time of
the alleged violation. The three-hour time limit specified in this division
regarding the admission of evidence does not extend or affect the two-hour time
limit specified in R.C. § 4511.192(A) as the maximum period of time during
which a person may consent to a chemical test or tests as described in that
section. The court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol, drugs of
abuse, or a combination of them as described in this division when a person
submits to a blood test at the request of a law enforcement officer under R.C.
§ 4511.191 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or a blood or
urine sample is obtained pursuant to a search warrant. Only a physician, a
registered nurse, an emergency medical technician-intermediate, an emergency
medical technician-paramedic, or a qualified technician, chemist, or
phlebotomist shall withdraw a blood sample for the purpose of determining the
alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or
combination content of the whole blood, blood serum, or blood plasma. This
limitation does not apply to the taking of breath or urine specimens. A person
authorized to withdraw blood under this division may refuse to withdraw blood
under this division, if in that person’s opinion, the physical welfare of the
person would be endangered by the withdrawing of blood. The bodily substance
withdrawn under this division (D)(1)(b) shall be analyzed in accordance with
methods approved by the Director of Health by an individual possessing a valid
permit issued by the Director pursuant to R.C. § 3701.143.
         (c)   As used in division (D)(1)(b) of this section, EMERGENCY MEDICAL
TECHNICIAN-INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-PARAMEDIC have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4765.01.
      (2)   In a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (A) of this
section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, if there was at
the time the bodily substance was withdrawn a concentration of less than the
applicable concentration of alcohol specified in divisions (A)(1)(b), (A)(1)
(c), (A)(1)(d) and (A)(1)(e) of this section or less than the applicable
concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a
controlled substance specified for a violation of division (A)(1)(j) of this
section, that fact may be considered with other competent evidence in
determining the guilt or innocence of the defendant. This division does not
limit or affect a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (B) of this
section.
      (3)   Upon the request of the person who was tested, the results of the
chemical test shall be made available to the person or the person’s attorney,
immediately upon the completion of the chemical test analysis. If the chemical
test was obtained pursuant to division (D)(1)(b) of this section, the person
tested may have a physician, a registered nurse, or a qualified technician,
chemist, or phlebotomist of the person’s own choosing administer a chemical
test or tests, at the person’s expense, in addition to any administered at the
request of a law enforcement officer. If the person was under arrest as
described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the arresting officer shall advise the
person at the time of the arrest that the person may have an independent
chemical test taken at the person’s own expense. If the person was under arrest
other than described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the form to be read to the
person to be tested, as required under §
73.02, shall state that the person may have an independent test performed at
the person’s expense. The failure or inability to obtain an additional chemical
test by a person shall not preclude the admission of evidence relating to the
chemical test or tests taken at the request of a law enforcement officer.
      (4)   (a)   As used in division (D)(4)(b) and (D)(4)(c) of this section,
NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION means the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration established as an administration of the United
States Department of Transportation under 96 Stat. 2415 (1983), 49 U.S.C. §
105.
         (b)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of division (A) or (B) of this section, of a municipal ordinance
relating to operating a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or alcohol and a drug of abuse, or of a municipal ordinance relating to
operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine, if a law enforcement officer has
administered a field sobriety test to the operator of the vehicle involved in
the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for any reliable, credible, and generally accepted field sobriety
tests that were in effect at the time the tests were administered, including
but not limited to any testing standards then in effect that were set by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply:
            1.   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
            2.   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field
sobriety test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding.
            3.   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (D)(4)(b)1. or (D)(4)(b)2. of this section and if the testimony or
evidence is admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the
testimony or evidence and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the
trier of fact considers to be appropriate.
         (c)   Division (D)(4)(b) of this section does not limit or preclude a
court, in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (D)(4)(b) of this section.
   (E)   (1)   Subject to division (E)(3) of this section, in any criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a violation of division (A)(1)(b),
(A)(1)(c), (A)(1)(d), (A)(1)(e), (A)(1)(f), (A)(1)(g), (A)(1)(h), (A)(1)(i), or
(A)(1)(j) or (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), or (B)(4) of this section or for an
equivalent offense that is substantially equivalent to any of those divisions,
a laboratory report from any laboratory personnel issued a permit by the
Department of Health authorizing an analysis as described in this division that
contains an analysis of the whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine,
or other bodily substance tested and that contains all of the information
specified in this division shall be admitted as prima facie evidence of the
information and statements that the report contains. The laboratory report
shall contain all of the following:
         (a)   The signature, under oath, of any person who performed the
analysis;
         (b)   Any findings as to the identity and quantity of alcohol, a drug
of abuse, a controlled substance, a metabolite of a controlled substance, or a
combination of them that was found;
         (c)   A copy of a notarized statement by the laboratory director of a
designee of the director that contains the name of each certified analyst or
test performer involved with the report, the analyst’s or test performer’s
employment relationship with the laboratory that issued the report, and a
notation that performing an analysis of the type involved is part of the
analyst’s or test performer’s regular duties;
         (d)   An outline of the analyst’s or test performer’s education,
training, and experience in performing the type of analysis involved and a
certification that the laboratory satisfies appropriate quality control
standards in general and, in this particular analysis, under rules of the
Department of Health.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law regarding the admission
of evidence, a report of the type described in division (E)(1) of this section
is not admissible against the defendant to whom it pertains in any proceeding,
other than a preliminary hearing or a grand jury proceeding, unless the
prosecutor has served a copy of the report on the defendant’s attorney or, if
the defendant has no attorney, on the defendant.
      (3)   A report of the type described in division (E)(1) of this section
shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents, identity, or amount of any
substance if, within seven days after the defendant to whom the report pertains
or the defendant’s attorney receives a copy of the report, the defendant or the
defendant’s attorney demands the testimony of the person who signed the report.
The judge in the case may extend the seven-day time limit in the interest of
justice.
   (F)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, any physician,
registered nurse, emergency medical technician-intermediate, emergency medical
technician-paramedic, or qualified technician, chemist, or phlebotomist who
withdraws blood from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.192, and any hospital, first-aid station, or clinic at which
blood is withdrawn from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.192, is immune from criminal liability and civil liability
based upon a claim of assault and battery or any other claim that is not a
claim of malpractice, for any act performed in withdrawing blood from the
person. The immunity provided in this division also extends to an emergency
medical service organization that employs an emergency medical technician-
intermediate or emergency medical technician-paramedic who withdraws blood
under this section. The immunity provided in this division is not available to
a person who withdraws blood if the person engages in willful or wanton
misconduct.
      (2)   As used in division (F)(1), EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-
INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-PARAMEDIC have the same meanings
as in R.C. § 4765.01.
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates any provisions of divisions (A)(1)(a) through
(A)(1)(i) or (A)(2) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them. Whoever
violates division (A)(1)(j) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle
while under the influence of a listed controlled substance or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance. The court shall sentence the offender for
either offense under R.C. Chapter 2929, except as otherwise authorized or
required by divisions (G)(1)(a) through (G)(1)(e) of this section:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(b), (G)(1)(c),
(G)(1)(d), or (G)(1)(e) of this section, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree, and the court shall sentence the offender to
all of the penalties and sanctions provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a)(i)
through (G)(1)(a)(iv).
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of division (A) of this section
or one other equivalent offense is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
The court shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and sanctions
provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) through (G)(1)(b)(v).
         (c)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division (A) of this
section or other equivalent offenses is guilty of a misdemeanor. The court
shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and sanctions provided in
R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c)(i) through (G)(1)(c)(vi).
         (d)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of division (A) of
this section or other equivalent offenses or an offender who, within 20 years
of the offense, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to five or
more violations of that nature, or an offender who previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a specification of the type described in R.C.
§ 2941.1413, is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
         (e)   An offender who previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) that was a felony, regardless of
when the violation and the conviction or guilty plea occurred, is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   An offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) of this section and who subsequently seeks reinstatement of the
driver’s or occupational driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privilege suspended under this section or R.C. § 4511.19 as a result of the
conviction or guilty plea shall pay a reinstatement fee as provided in R.C. §
4511.191(F)(2).
      (3)   (a)   If an offender is sentenced to a jail term under R.C. §
4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) or (G)(1)(b)(ii) or (G)(1)(c)(i) or (G)(1)(c)(ii) and if,
within 60 days of sentencing of the offender, the court issues a written
finding on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail
where the offender is required to serve the term, the offender will not be able
to begin serving that term within the 60-day period following the date of
sentencing, the court may impose an alternative sentence as specified in R.C. §
4511.19(G)(3) that includes a term of house arrest with electronic monitoring,
with continuous alcohol monitoring, or with both electronic monitoring and
continuous alcohol monitoring.
         (b)   As an alternative to the mandatory jail terms as required by
R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1), the court may sentence the offender as provided in R.C. §
4511.19(G)(3).
      (4)   If an offender’s driver’s or occupational driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege is suspended under division (G) of
this section or R.C. § 4511.19(G) and if R.C. § 4510.13 permits the court to
grant limited driving privileges, the court may grant the limited driving
privileges in accordance with that section. If division (A)(7) of that section
requires the court impose as a condition of the privileges that the offender
must display on the vehicle that is driven subject to the privileges restricted
license plates that are issued under R.C. § 4503.231, except as provided in
division (B) of that section, the court shall impose that condition as one of
the conditions of the limited driving privileges granted to the offender,
except as provided in R.C. § 4503.231(B).
      (5)   Fines imposed under this section for a violation of division (A) of
this section shall be distributed as provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(5).
      (6)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order of criminal
forfeiture under division (G)(1)(c), (G)(1)(d), or (G)(1)(e) of this section is
assigned or transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in
addition to or independent of any other penalty established by law, the court
may fine the offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of
the National Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds of any fine so
imposed shall be distributed in accordance with division (C)(2) of that
section.
      (7)   In all cases in which an offender is sentenced under division (G)
of this section, the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, the court, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for
any economic loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and
proximate result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or
after committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under division
(G) of this section.
      (8)   A court may order an offender to reimburse a law enforcement agency
for any costs incurred by the agency with respect to a chemical test or tests
administered to the offender if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) of this section.
         (b)   The test or tests were of the offender’s whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, or urine.
         (c)   The test or tests indicated that the offender had a prohibited
concentration of a controlled substance or a metabolite of a controlled
substance in the offender’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine at the
time of the offense.
      (9)   As used in division (G) of this section, ELECTRONIC MONITORING has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   (H)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of operating a
motor vehicle after underage alcohol consumption and shall be punished as
follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (H)(2) of this section,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. In addition to
any other sanction imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class six
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6). The court may grant
limited driving privileges relative to the suspension under R.C. §§ 4510.021
and 4510.13. The court may grant unlimited driving privileges with an ignition
interlock device relative to the suspension and may reduce the period of
suspension as authorized under R.C. § 4510.022. If the court grants unlimited
driving privileges under R.C. § 4510.022, the court shall suspend any jail term
imposed under division (H)(1) of this section as required under that section.
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of division (A)
of this section or other equivalent offenses, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. In addition to any other sanction imposed for
the offense, the court shall impose a class four suspension of the offender’s
driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4). The court may grant limited driving
privileges relative to the suspension under R.C. §§ 4510.021 and 4510.13.
      (3)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the violation of division (B) of this section.
   (I)   (1)   No court shall sentence an offender to an alcohol treatment
program under this section unless the treatment program complies with the
minimum standards for alcohol treatment programs adopted under R.C. Chapter
5119 by the Director of Mental Health and Addiction Services.
      (2)   An offender who stays in a drivers’ intervention program or in an
alcohol treatment program under an order issued under this section shall pay
the cost of the stay in the program. However, if the court determines that an
offender who stays in an alcohol treatment program under an order issued under
this section is unable to pay the cost of the stay in the program, the court
may order that the cost be paid from the court’s Indigent Drivers’ Alcohol
Treatment Fund.
   (J)   If a person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege is suspended under this section or R.C. §
4511.19 files an appeal regarding any aspect of the person’s trial or sentence,
the appeal itself does not stay the operation of the suspension.
   (K)   Division (A)(1)(j) of this section does not apply to a person who
operates a vehicle while the person has a concentration of a listed controlled
substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s
whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds the amount
specified in that division, if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
      (2)   The person injected, ingested, or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
   (L)   The prohibited concentrations of a controlled substance or a
metabolite of a controlled substance listed in division (A)(1)(j) of this
section also apply in a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2923.16(D) in the
same manner as if the offender is being prosecuted for a prohibited
concentration of alcohol.
   (M)   All terms defined in R.C. § 4510.01 apply to this section. If the
meaning of a term defined in R.C. § 4510.01 conflicts with the meaning of the
same term as defined in R.C. § 4501.01 or 4511.01, the term as defined in R.C.
§ 4510.01 applies to this section.
(R.C. § 4511.19(A) - (M))
   (N)   As used in this section, §
73.02 and §
73.03:
      COMMUNITY RESIDENTIAL SANCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2929.01.
      CONTINUOUS ALCOHOL MONITORING. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      DRUG OF ABUSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4506.01.
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A);
         (b)   A violation of a municipal OVI ordinance;
         (c)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.04 in a case in which the offender
was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that section;
         (d)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.06(A)(1) or R.C. § 2903.08 or a
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to either of those
divisions;
         (e)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.06(A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4), R.C. §
2903.08(A)(2), or former R.C. § 2903.07, or a municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to any of those divisions or that former section, in a
case in which a judge or jury as the trier of fact found that the offender was
under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them;
         (f)   A violation of R.C. § 1547.11(A);
         (g)   A violation of a municipal ordinance prohibiting a person from
operating or being in physical control of any vessel underway or from
manipulating any water skis, aquaplane, or similar device on the waters of this
state while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination
of them or prohibiting a person from operating or being in physical control of
any vessel underway or from manipulating any water skis, aquaplane, or similar
device on the waters of this state with a prohibited concentration of alcohol,
a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine;
         (h)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or R.C. § 1547.11(A);
         (i)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A) or R.C. § 1547.11(A).
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE THAT IS VEHICLE-RELATED. Means an equivalent offense
that is any of the following:
         (a)   A violation described in division (a), (b), (c), (d), or (e) of
the definition for “equivalent offense” provided in this division (N);
         (b)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A);
         (c)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A).
      JAIL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Means the mandatory term in jail of 3, 6, 10, 20,
30, or 60 days that must be imposed under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a), (G)(1)(b),
or (G)(1)(c) upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (A) of that
section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Except as specifically authorized under R.C. § 4511.19, the term
must be served in a jail.
         (b)   Except as specifically authorized under R.C. § 4511.19, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced, or otherwise modified pursuant to R.C. §§ 2929.21
through 2929.28 or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
      MANDATORY PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY TERM OF LOCAL INCARCERATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2929.01.
      MUNICIPAL OVI ORDINANCE and MUNICIPAL OVI OFFENSE. Mean any municipal
ordinance prohibiting a person from operating a vehicle while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them or prohibiting
a person from operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a
controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
      PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      SANCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
(R.C. § 4511.181)
Cross-reference:
   Endangering children, see §
135.14
Statutory reference:
   Mandatory suspension periods; immobilizing or disabling device; restricted
license, see R.C. § 4510.13
   Trial judge to suspend driver’s license, see R.C. § 4510.05
§ 73.02 IMPLIED CONSENT.
   (A)   (1)   As used in this section:
         ALCOHOL MONITORING DEVICE. Means any device that provides for
continuous alcohol monitoring, any ignition interlock device, any immobilizing
or disabling device other than an ignition interlock device that is constantly
available to monitor the concentration of alcohol in a person’s system, or any
other device that provides for the automatic testing and periodic reporting of
alcohol consumption by a person and that a court orders a person to use as a
sanction imposed as a result of the person’s conviction of or plea of guilty to
an offense.
         COMMUNITY ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 5119.01.
         PHYSICAL CONTROL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.194.
      (2)   Any person who operates a vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for vehicular travel or parking within this
municipality or who is in physical control of a vehicle shall be deemed to have
given consent to a chemical test or tests of the person’s whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine to determine the alcohol, drug of abuse,
controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or combination
content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine if
arrested for a violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or any other municipal OVI ordinance.
      (3)   The chemical test or tests under division (A)(2) of this section
shall be administered at the request of a law enforcement officer having
reasonable grounds to believe the person was operating or in physical control
of a vehicle in violation of a division, section, or ordinance identified in
division (A)(2) of this section. The law enforcement agency by which the
officer is employed shall designate which of the tests shall be administered.
      (4)   Any person who is dead or unconscious, or who otherwise is in a
condition rendering the person incapable of refusal, shall be deemed to have
consented as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, and the test or tests
may be administered, subject to R.C. §§ 313.12 through 313.16.
      (5)   (a)   If a law enforcement officer arrests a person for a violation
of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a municipal OVI ordinance and if the person if
convicted would be required to be sentenced under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c), (d),
or (e), the law enforcement officer shall request the person to submit, and the
person shall submit, to a chemical test or tests of the person’s whole blood,
blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine for the purpose of determining the
alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled
substance, or combination content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or
plasma, breath, or urine. A law enforcement officer who makes a request
pursuant to this division that a person submit to a chemical test or tests is
not required to advise the person of the consequences of submitting to, or
refusing to submit to, the test or tests and is not required to give the person
the form described in division (C) of this section, but the officer shall
advise the person at the time of the arrest that if the person refuses to take
a chemical test the officer may employ whatever reasonable means are necessary
to ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma. The officer shall also advise the person at the
time of the arrest that the person may have an independent chemical test taken
at the person’s own expense. Divisions (A)(3) and (A)(4) of this section apply
to the administration of a chemical test or tests pursuant to this division.
         (b)   If a person refuses to submit to a chemical test upon a request
made pursuant to division (A)(5)(a) of this section, the law enforcement
officer who made the request may employ whatever reasonable means are necessary
to ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma. A law enforcement officer who acts pursuant to
this division to ensure that a person submits to a chemical test of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma is immune from criminal and civil
liability based upon a claim for assault and battery or any other claim for the
acts, unless the officer so acted with malicious purpose, in bad faith, or in a
wanton or reckless manner.
(R.C. § 4511.191(A))
   (B)   Except as provided in division (A)(5) of this section, the arresting
law enforcement officer shall give advice in accordance with this section to
any person under arrest for a violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or any other municipal OVI ordinance. The officer shall
give that advice in a written form that contains the information described in
division (C) of this section and shall read the advice to the person. The form
shall contain a statement that the form was shown to the person under arrest
and read to the person by the arresting officer. One or more persons shall
witness the arresting officer’s reading of the form, and the witnesses shall
certify to this fact by signing the form. The person must submit to the
chemical test or tests, subsequent to the request of the arresting officer,
within two hours of the time of the alleged violation and, if the person does
not submit to the test or tests within that two-hour time limit, the failure to
submit automatically constitutes a refusal to submit to the test or tests.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (A)(5) of this section, if a person is
under arrest as described in division (B) of this section, before the person
may be requested to submit to a chemical test or tests to determine the
alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled
substance, or combination content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or
plasma, breath, or urine, the arresting officer shall read the following form
to the person:
   You now are under arrest for (specifically state the offense under state law
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance for which the person was
arrested – operating a vehicle under the influence of alcohol, a drug, or a
combination of them; operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed
controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance;
operating a vehicle after underage alcohol consumption; or having physical
control of a vehicle while under the influence).
   If you refuse to take any chemical test required by law, your Ohio driving
privileges will be suspended immediately, and you will have to pay a fee to
have the privileges reinstated. If you have a prior conviction of OVI or
operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed controlled substance
or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance under state or municipal law
within the preceding 20 years, you are now under arrest for state OVI, and, if
you refuse to take a chemical test, you will face increased penalties if you
subsequently are convicted of the state OVI.
   (Read this part unless the person is under arrest for solely having physical
control of a vehicle while under the influence.) If you take any chemical test
required by law and are found to be at or over the prohibited amount of
alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in
your whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine as set by law, your
Ohio driving privileges will be suspended immediately, and you will have to pay
a fee to have the privileges reinstated.
   If you take a chemical test, you may have an independent chemical test taken
at your own expense.
   (D)   If the arresting law enforcement officer does not ask a person under
arrest as described in division (B) of this section or division (A)(5) of this
section to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191 or this
section, the arresting officer shall seize the Ohio or out-of-state driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit of the person and immediately forward it
to the court in which the arrested person is to appear on the charge. If the
arrested person is not in possession of the person’s license or permit or it is
not in the person’s vehicle, the officer shall order the person to surrender it
to the law enforcement agency that employs the officer within 24 hours after
the arrest, and, upon the surrender, the agency immediately shall forward the
license or permit to the court in which the person is to appear on the charge.
Upon receipt of the license or permit, the court shall retain it pending the
arrested person’s initial appearance and any action taken under R.C. §
4511.196.
   (E)   (1)   If a law enforcement officer asks a person under arrest as
described in division (A)(5) of this section to submit to a chemical test or
tests under that division and the test results indicate a prohibited
concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, or urine at the time of the alleged offense, or if a law enforcement
officer asks a person under arrest as described in division (B) of this section
to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191 or this section, if
the officer advises the person in accordance with this section of the
consequences of the person’s refusal or submission, and if either the person
refuses to submit to the test or tests or, unless the arrest was for a
violation of §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the
person submits to the test or tests and the test results indicate a prohibited
concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, or urine at the time of the alleged offense, the arresting officer
shall do all of the following:
         (a)   On behalf of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, notify the person
that, independent of any penalties or sanctions imposed upon the person, the
person’s Ohio driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege is suspended immediately, that the suspension will last at
least until the person’s initial appearance on the charge, which will be held
within five days after the date of the person’s arrest or the issuance of a
citation to the person, and that the person may appeal the suspension at the
initial appearance or during the period of time ending 30 days after that
initial appearance;
         (b)   Seize the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit of
the person and immediately forward it to the Registrar. If the arrested person
is not in possession of the person’s license or permit or it is not in the
person’s vehicle, the officer shall order the person to surrender it to the law
enforcement agency that employs the officer within 24 hours after the person is
given notice of the suspension, and, upon the surrender, the officer’s
employing agency immediately shall forward the license or permit to the
Registrar;
         (c)   Verify the person’s current residence and, if it differs from
that on the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit, notify
the Registrar of the change;
         (d)   Send to the Registrar, within 48 hours after the arrest of the
person, a sworn report that includes all of the following statements:
            1.   That the officer had reasonable grounds to believe that, at
the time of the arrest, the arrested person was operating a vehicle in
violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or a municipal OVI ordinance or for being
in physical control of a stationary vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.194 or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
            2.   That the person was arrested and charged with a violation of
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a municipal OVI ordinance;
            3.   Unless division (E)(1)(d)5. of this section applies, that the
officer asked the person to take the designated chemical test or tests, advised
the person in accordance with this section of the consequences of submitting
to, or refusing to take, the test or tests, and gave the person the form
described in division (C) of this section;
            4.   Unless division (E)(1)(d)5. of this section applies, that
either the person refused to submit to the chemical test or tests or, unless
the arrest was for a violation of R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the person submitted to the chemical test or tests and the
test results indicate a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine at the time of the alleged
offense.
            5.   If the person was under arrest as described in division (A)(5)
of this section and the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance
with that division, that the person was under arrest as described in that
division, that the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance with
that division, and that test results indicated a prohibited concentration of
alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in
the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine at the time
of the alleged offense.
      (2)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
arrested for a violation of §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, who
is asked by a law enforcement officer to submit to a chemical test or tests
under this section, and who submits to the test or tests, regardless of the
amount of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled
substance that the test results indicate is present in the person’s whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
   (F)   The arresting officer shall give the officer’s sworn report that is
completed under this section to the arrested person at the time of the arrest,
or the Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall send the report to the person by
regular first class mail as soon as possible after receipt of the report, but
not later than 14 days after receipt of it. An arresting officer may give an
unsworn report to the arrested person at the time of the arrest provided the
report is complete when given to the arrested person and subsequently is sworn
to by the arresting officer. As soon as possible, but not later than 48 hours
after the arrest of the person, the arresting officer shall send a copy of the
sworn report to the court in which the arrested person is to appear on the
charge for which the person was arrested.
   (G)   The sworn report of an arresting officer completed under this section
is prima facie proof of the information and statements that it contains. It
shall be admitted and considered as prima facie proof of the information and
statements that it contains in any appeal under R.C. § 4511.197 relative to any
suspension of a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege that results from the arrest covered by the
report.
(R.C. § 4511.192)
   (H)   (1)   A suspension of a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit or nonresident operating privilege under this section for the
time described in R.C. § 4511.191(B) or (C) is effective immediately from the
time at which the arresting officer serves the notice of suspension upon the
arrested person. Any subsequent finding that the person is not guilty of the
charge that resulted in the person’s being requested to take the chemical test
or tests under division (A) of this section does not affect the suspension.
      (2)   If a person arrested for operating a vehicle in violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), or any other municipal OVI
ordinance, or for being in physical control of a vehicle in violation of §
73.03 or R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
regardless of whether the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege is or is not suspended under R.C. §
4511.191(B) or (C) or R.C. Chapter 4510, the person’s initial appearance on the
charge resulting from the arrest shall be held within five days of the persons’
arrest or the issuance of the citation to him or her, subject to any
continuance granted by the court pursuant to R.C. § 4511.197 regarding the
issues specified in that section.
(R.C. § 4511.191(D))
Statutory reference:
   Continuous alcohol monitoring, see R.C. § 4511.198
   Disposition of fines, immobilization of vehicle and impoundment of license
plates, criminal forfeiture for municipal ordinance conviction, see R.C. §
4511.193
   Effect of refusal to submit to test, seizure of license, suspension periods,
appeal procedures, occupational driving privileges, and Indigent Drivers
Alcohol Treatment Funds, see R.C. § 4511.191
   Judicial pretrial suspension, initial appearance, see R.C. § 4511.196
   Mandatory suspension periods; immobilizing or disabling device; restricted
license, see R.C. § 4510.13
   Seizure of vehicles upon arrest, see R.C. § 4511.195
§ 73.03 PHYSICAL CONTROL OF VEHICLE WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (A)   As used in this section, PHYSICAL CONTROL means being in the driver’s
position of the front seat of a vehicle and having possession of the vehicle’s
ignition key or other ignition device.
   (B)   No person shall be in physical control of a vehicle if, at the time of
the physical control, any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a
combination of them.
      (2)   The person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine
contains at least the concentration of alcohol specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(b), (A)(1)(c), (A)(1)(d), or (A)(1)(e).
      (3)   Except as provided in division (E) of this section, the person has
a concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or
urine that equals or exceeds the concentration specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(j).
   (C)   (1)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of this section, if a law enforcement officer has administered a
field sobriety test to the person in physical control of the vehicle involved
in the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for any reliable, credible, and generally acceptable field sobriety
tests that were in effect at the time the tests were administered, including
but not limited to any testing standards then in effect what were set by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply:
         (a)   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
         (b)   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field sobriety
test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal prosecution
or juvenile court proceeding.
         (c)   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this section and if the testimony or
evidence is admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the
testimony or evidence, and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the
trier of fact considers to be appropriate.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not limit or preclude a court,
in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (C)(1) of this section.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of having physical control of
a vehicle while under the influence, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In
addition to other sanctions imposed, the court may impose on the offender a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
   (E)   Division (B)(3) of this section does not apply to a person who is in
physical control of a vehicle while the person has a concentration of a listed
controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance in the
person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds
the amount specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(j) if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
      (2)   The person injected, ingested, or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
(R.C. § 4511.194)
§ 73.04 DRIVING COMMERCIAL VEHICLE WITH IMPAIRED ALERTNESS OR ABILITY; USE OF
DRUGS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle, as defined in R.C. §
4506.01, or a commercial car or commercial tractor, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, while the person’s ability or alertness is so impaired by fatigue,
illness, or other causes that it is unsafe for the person to drive such
vehicle. No driver shall use any drug which would adversely affect the driver’s
ability or alertness.
   (B)   No owner, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, of a commercial motor vehicle,
commercial car or commercial tractor, or a person employing or otherwise
directing the driver of such vehicle, shall require or knowingly permit a
driver in any such condition described in division (A) of this section to drive
such vehicle upon any street or highway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.79, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, or
4511.77 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.79)
§ 73.05 RECKLESS OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any street or highway in willful
or wanton disregard of the safety of persons or property.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.20)
Cross-reference:
   License suspension, see §
71.25
§ 73.06 RECKLESS OPERATION OFF STREETS AND HIGHWAYS; COMPETITIVE OPERATION.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any public or private
property other than streets or highways in willful or wanton disregard of the
safety of persons or property.
      (2)   This section does not apply to the competitive operation of
vehicles on public or private property when the owner of such property
knowingly permits such operation thereon.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.201)
Cross-reference:
   License suspension, see §
71.25
§ 73.07 OPERATOR TO BE IN REASONABLE CONTROL.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, agricultural tractor, or
agricultural tractor that is towing, pulling, or otherwise drawing a unit of
farm machinery on any street, highway, or property open to the public for
vehicular traffic without being in reasonable control of the vehicle,
agricultural tractor, or unit of farm machinery.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or agricultural tractor without being in control of it, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.202)
§ 73.08 IMMOBILIZING OR DISABLING DEVICE VIOLATION.
   (A)   (1)   No offender who has been granted limited or unlimited driving
privileges, during any period that the offender is required to operate only a
motor vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, shall request
or permit any other person to breathe into the device if it is an ignition
interlock device or another type of device that monitors the concentration of
alcohol in a person’s breath or to otherwise start the motor vehicle equipped
with the device, for the purpose of providing the offender with an operable
motor vehicle.
      (2)   No person shall breathe into an immobilizing or disabling device
that is an ignition interlock device or another type of device that monitors
the concentration of alcohol in a person’s breath or otherwise start a motor
vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, for the purpose of
providing an operable motor vehicle to another person who has been granted
limited or unlimited driving privileges under the condition that the person
operate only a motor vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device.
      (3)   No unauthorized person shall tamper with or circumvent the
operation of an immobilizing or disabling device.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an immobilizing or
disabling device violation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4510.44)
§ 73.09 STREET RACING DEFINED; PROHIBITED ON PUBLIC HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   As used in this section, STREET RACING means the operation of two or
more vehicles from a point side by side at accelerating speeds in a competitive
attempt to outdistance each other, or the operation of one or more vehicles
over a common selected course, from the same point to the same point, wherein
timing is made of the participating vehicles involving competitive
accelerations or speeds. Persons rendering assistance in any manner to such
competitive use of vehicles shall be equally charged as the participants. The
operation of two or more vehicles side by side either at speeds in excess of
prima facie lawful speeds established by R.C. § 4511.21(B)(1)(a) through (B)(9)
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or rapidly accelerating from
a common starting point to a speed in excess of such prima facie lawful speeds
shall be prima facie evidence of street racing.
   (B)   No person shall participate in street racing upon any public road,
street, or highway in this municipality.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of street racing, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition to any other sanctions, the court
shall suspend the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privileges for not less than 30 days or more than three years. No judge shall
suspend the first 30 days of any suspension of an offender’s license, permit,
or privilege imposed under this division.
(R.C. § 4511.251)
§ 73.10 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater or less
than is reasonable or proper, having due regard for the traffic, surface, and
width of the street or highway and any other conditions, and no person shall
drive any motor vehicle in and upon any street or highway at a greater speed
than will permit him or her to bring it to a stop within the assured clear
distance ahead.
   (B)   It is prima facie lawful, in the absence of a lower limit declared or
established pursuant to this section by the Director of Transportation or local
authorities, for the operator of a motor vehicle to operate the same at a speed
not exceeding the following:
      (1)   (a)   Twenty miles per hour in school zones during school recess
and while children are going to or leaving school during the opening or closing
hours, and when 20 miles per hour school speed limit signs are erected, except
that on controlled-access highways and expressways, if the right-of-way line
fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed
by division (B)(4) of this section, and on freeways, if the right-of-way line
fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed
by divisions (B)(10) and (B)(11) of this section. The end of every school zone
may be marked by a sign indicating the end of the zone. Nothing in this section
or in the Manual and Specifications for a Uniform System of Traffic-Control
Devices shall be construed to require school zones to be indicated by signs
equipped with flashing or other lights, or giving other special notice of the
hours in which the school zone speed limit is in effect.
         (b)   As used in this section, SCHOOL means all of the following:
            1.   Any school chartered under R.C. § 3301.16;
            2.   Any nonchartered school that during the preceding year filed
with the Ohio Department of Education and Workforce in compliance with O.A.C. §
3301-35-08, a copy of the school’s report for the parents of the school’s
pupils certifying that the school meets state minimum standards for
nonchartered, nontax-supported schools and presents evidence of this filing to
the jurisdiction from which it is requesting the establishment of a school
zone;
            3.   Any special elementary school that in writing requests the
County Engineer to create a school zone at the location of the school. Upon
receipt of such written request, the County Engineer shall create a school zone
at that location by erecting appropriate signs;
            4.   Any preschool education program operated by an educational
service center that is located on a street or highway with a speed limit of 45
miles per hour or more, when the educational service center in writing requests
that the County Engineer create a school zone at the location of that program.
Upon receipt of such a written request, the County Engineer shall create a
school zone at that location by erecting the appropriate signs.
         (c)   As used in this section, SCHOOL ZONE means that portion of a
street or highway passing a school fronting upon the street or highway that is
encompassed by projecting the school property lines to the fronting street or
highway, and also includes that portion of a state highway. Upon request from
local authorities for streets and highways under their jurisdiction and that
portion of a state highway under the jurisdiction of the Director of
Transportation or a request from a County Engineer in the case of a school zone
for a special elementary school, the Director may extend the traditional school
zone boundaries. The distances in divisions (B)(1)(c)1. through (B)(1)(c)3.
below shall not exceed 300 feet per approach per direction, and are bounded by
whichever of the following distances or combination thereof the Director
approves as most appropriate:
            1.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school building
lines normal to the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            2.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school property
lines intersecting the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            3.   The distance encompassed by the special marking of the
pavement for a principal school pupil crosswalk plus a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction of the highway.
         (d)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the
Director’s initial action on August 9, 1976, establishing all school zones at
the traditional school zone boundaries defined by projecting school property
lines, except when those boundaries are extended as provided in divisions (B)
(1)(a) and (B)(1)(c) of this section.
         (e)   As used in this division, CROSSWALK has the meaning given that
term in R.C. § 4511.01(LL)(2).
         (f)   The Director may, upon request by resolution of the Legislative
Authority and upon submission by the municipality of such engineering, traffic,
and other information as the Director considers necessary, designate a school
zone on any portion of a state route lying within the municipality that
includes a crosswalk customarily used by children going to or leaving a school
during recess and opening and closing hours, whenever the distance, as measured
in a straight line, from the school property line nearest the crosswalk to the
nearest point of a crosswalk is no more than 1,320 feet. Such a school zone
shall include the distance encompassed by the crosswalk and extending 300 feet
in each appropriate direction of the state route.
         (g)   As used in this section, SPECIAL ELEMENTARY SCHOOL means a
school that meets all of the following:
            1.   It is not chartered and does not receive tax revenue from any
source.
            2.   It does not educate children beyond the eighth grade.
            3.   It is located outside the limits of a municipal corporation.
            4.   A majority of the total number of students enrolled at the
school are not related by blood.
            5.   The principal or other person in charge of the special
elementary school annually sends a report to the superintendent of the school
district in which the special elementary school is located indicating the total
number of students enrolled at the school, but otherwise the principal or other
person in charge does not report any other information or data to the
superintendent.
      (2)   Twenty-five miles per hour in all other portions of the
municipality, except on state routes outside business districts, through
highways outside business districts, and alleys;
      (3)   Thirty-five miles per hour on all state routes or through highways
within the municipality outside business districts, except as provided in
divisions (B)(4) and (B)(6) of this section;
      (4)   Fifty miles per hour on controlled-access highways and expressways
within the municipality, except as provided in divisions (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)
(14), (B)(15), and (B)(16) of this section;
      (5)   Fifty-five miles per hour on highways outside the municipality,
other than highways within island jurisdictions as provided in division (B)(8)
of this section, highways as provided in divisions (B)(9) and (B)(10) of this
section, and highways, expressways and freeways as provided in divisions (B)
(12), (B)(13), (B)(14), and (B)(16) of this section;
      (6)   Fifty miles per hour on state routes within the municipality
outside urban districts unless a lower prima facie speed is established as
further provided in this section;
      (7)   Fifteen miles per hour on all alleys within the municipality;
      (8)   Thirty-five miles per hour on highways outside the municipality
that are within an island jurisdiction;
      (9)   Thirty-five miles per hour on through highways, except state
routes, that are outside municipal corporations and that are within a national
park with boundaries extending through two or more counties;
      (10)   Sixty miles per hour on two-lane state routes outside municipal
corporations as established by the Director under R.C. § 4511.21(H)(2);
      (11)   Fifty-five miles per hour on freeways with paved shoulders inside
the municipality, other than freeways as provided in divisions (B)(14) and (B)
(16) of this section;
      (12)   Sixty miles per hour on rural expressways with traffic control
signals and on all portions of rural divided highways, except as provided in
divisions (B)(13) and (B)(14) of this section;
      (13)   Sixty-five miles per hour on all rural expressways without traffic
control signals;
      (14)   Seventy miles per hour on all rural freeways;
      (15)   Fifty-five miles per hour on all portions of freeways or
expressways in congested areas as determined by the Director and that are
located within a municipal corporation or within an interstate freeway
outerbelt, except as provided in division (B)(16) of this section;
      (16)   Sixty-five miles per hour on all portions of freeways or
expressways without traffic control signals in urbanized areas.
   (C)   It is prima facie unlawful for any person to exceed any of the speed
limitations in divisions (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)
(8) and (B)(9) of this section or any declared or established pursuant to this
section by the Director or local authorities and it is unlawful for any person
to exceed any of the speed limitations in division (D) of this section. No
person shall be convicted of more than one violation of this section for the
same conduct, although violations of more than one provision of this section
may be charged in the alternative in a single affidavit.
   (D)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon a street or highway as
follows:
      (1)   At a speed exceeding 55 miles per hour, except upon a two-lane
state route as provided in division (B)(10) of this section and upon a highway,
expressway or freeway as provided in divisions (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)(14), and
(B)(16) of this section;
      (2)   At a speed exceeding 60 miles per hour upon a two-lane state route
as provided in division (B)(10) of this section and upon a highway as provided
in division (B)(12) of this section;
      (3)   At a speed exceeding 65 miles per hour upon an expressway as
provided in division (B)(13) of this section or upon a freeway as provided in
division (B)(16) of this section, except upon a freeway as provided in division
(B)(14) of this section;
      (4)   At a speed exceeding 70 miles per hour upon a freeway as provided
in division (B)(14) of this section;
      (5)   At a speed exceeding the posted speed limit upon a highway,
expressway or freeway for which the Director has determined and declared a
speed limit pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(I)(2) or (L)(2).
   (E)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(E), in every charge of violating this
section, the affidavit and warrant shall specify the time, place and speed at
which the defendant is alleged to have driven, and in charges made in reliance
upon division (C) of this section also the speed which division (B)(1)(a), (B)
(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared
or established pursuant to, this section or R.C. § 4511.21 declares is prima
facie lawful at the time and place of such alleged violation, except that in
affidavits where a person is alleged to have driven at a greater speed than
will permit the person to bring the vehicle to stop within the assured clear
distance ahead, the affidavit and warrant need not specify the speed at which
the defendant is alleged to have driven.
   (F)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(F), when a speed in excess of both a prima
facie limitation and a limitation in division (D) of this section is alleged,
the defendant shall be charged in a single affidavit, alleging a single act,
with a violation indicated of both division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4),
(B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of this section, or of a limit declared or
established pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.21 by the Director or local
authorities, and of the limitation in division (D) of this section. If the
court finds a violation of division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6),
(B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared or established pursuant to,
this section or R.C. § 4511.21 has occurred, it shall enter a judgment of
conviction under such division and dismiss the charge under division (D) of
this section. If it finds no violation of division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3),
(B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared or established
pursuant to, this section or R.C. § 4511.21, it shall then consider whether the
evidence supports a conviction under division (D) of this section.
   (G)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(G), points shall be assessed for a
violation of a limitation under division (D) of this section in accordance with
R.C. § 4510.036.
(R.C. § 4511.21(A) - (G))
   (H)   Whenever, in accordance with R.C. § 4511.21(H) through (N), the
maximum prima facie speed limitations as established herein have been altered,
either higher or lower, and the appropriate signs giving notice have been
erected as required, operators of motor vehicles shall be governed by the speed
limitations set forth on such signs. It is prima facie unlawful for any person
to exceed the speed limits posted upon such signs.
   (I)   As used in this section:
      COMMERCIAL BUS. Means a motor vehicle designed for carrying more than
nine passengers and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
      DIVIDED. Means a roadway having two or more travel lanes for vehicles
moving in opposite directions and that is separated by a median of more than
four feet, excluding turn lanes.
      INTERSTATE SYSTEM. Has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. § 101.
      NONCOMMERCIAL BUS. Includes but is not limited to a school bus, or a
motor vehicle operated solely for the transportation of persons associated with
a charitable or nonprofit organization.
      OUTERBELT. A portion of a freeway that is part of the interstate system
and is located in the outer vicinity of a major municipal corporation or group
of municipal corporations, as designated by the Director.
      RURAL. Means an area outside urbanized areas and outside of a business or
urban district, and areas that extend within urbanized areas where the roadway
characteristics remain mostly unchanged from those outside the urbanized areas.
      URBANIZED AREA. Has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. § 101.
(R.C. § 4511.21(O))
   (J)   Speed limits for private roads and driveways.
      (1)   The owner of a private road or driveway located in a private
residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units may establish a speed
limit on the road or driveway by complying with all of the following
requirements:
         (a)   The speed limit is not less than 25 miles per hour and is
indicated by a sign that is in a proper position, is sufficiently legible to be
seen by an ordinarily observant person, and meets the specifications for the
basic speed limit sign included in the manual adopted by the Department of
Transportation pursuant to R.C. § 4511.09;
         (b)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road
or driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road
or driveway that they are entering private property, a speed limit has been
established for the road or driveway, and the speed limit is enforceable by law
enforcement officers under state law.
      (2)   No person shall operate a vehicle upon a private road or driveway
as provided in division (J)(1) of this section at a speed exceeding any speed
limit established and posted pursuant to division (J)(1).
      (3)   When a speed limit is established and posted in accordance with
division (J)(1) of this section, a law enforcement officer may apprehend a
person violating the speed limit of the residential area by utilizing any of
the means described in R.C. § 4511.091 or by any other accepted method of
determining the speed of a motor vehicle and may stop and charge the person
with exceeding the speed limit.
      (4)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.211(D), points shall be assessed for
violation of a speed limit established and posted in accordance with division
(J)(1) of this section in accordance with R.C. § 4510.036.
      (5)   As used in this division (J):
         OWNER. Includes but is not limited to a person who holds title to the
real property in fee simple, a condominium owners’ association, a property
owners’ association, a board of directors or trustees of a private community,
and a nonprofit corporation governing a private community.
         PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL AREA CONTAINING 20 OR MORE DWELLING UNITS. Does
not include a Chautauqua assembly as defined in R.C. § 4511.90.
(R.C. § 4511.211(A) - (E))
   (K)   Penalties.
      (1)   Divisions (A) through (I).
         (a)   A violation of any provision of divisions (A) through (I) of
this section is one of the following:
            1.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (K)(1)(a)2., (K)(1)
(a)3., (K)(1)(b), and (K)(1)(c) of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
            2.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of any provision of
divisions (A) through (I) of this section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any provision of
any other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any provision
of that section, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
            3.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of any
provision of divisions (A) through (I) of this section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any
provision of any other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to
any provision of that section, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         (b)   If the offender operated a motor vehicle faster than 35 miles an
hour in a business district of the municipality, faster than 50 miles an hour
in other portions of the municipality, or faster than 35 miles an hour in a
school zone during recess or while children are going to or leaving school
during the school’s opening or closing hours, a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. This division does not apply if penalties may be imposed under division
(K)(1)(a)2. or (K)(1)(a)3. of this section.
         (c)   Notwithstanding division (K)(1)(a) of this section, if the
offender operated a motor vehicle in a construction zone where a sign was then
posted in accordance with R.C. § 4511.98, the court, in addition to all other
penalties provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a fine of two times
the usual amount imposed for the violation. No court shall impose a fine of two
times the usual amount imposed for the violation upon an offender if the
offender alleges, in an affidavit filed with the court prior to the offender’s
sentencing, that the offender is indigent and is unable to pay the fine imposed
pursuant to this division and if the court determines that the offender is an
indigent person and unable to pay the fine.
         (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.21(P))
      (2)   Division (J).
         (a)   A violation of division (J)(2) of this section is one of the
following:
            1.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (K)(2)(a)2. and (K)
(2)(a)3. of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
            2.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division (J)(2) of
this section, R.C. § 4511.211(B), or any other municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to that division, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
            3.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of division
(J)(2) of this section, R.C. § 4511.211(B), or any other municipal ordinance
that is substantially equivalent to that division, a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
         (b)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.211(F))
Statutory reference:
   Alteration of speed limits with approval of Director, see R.C. § 4511.21(H)
through (N)
   Arrest pending warrant when radar, electrical or mechanical timing device
used to determine violation, see R.C. § 4511.091
§ 73.11 SLOW SPEED OR STOPPING.
   (A)   No person shall stop or operate a vehicle at such an unreasonably slow
speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic,
except when stopping or reduced speed is necessary for safe operation or to
comply with law.
   (B)   Whenever the Director of Transportation or local authorities determine
on the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation that slow speeds on
any part of a controlled-access highway, expressway, or freeway consistently
impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, the Director or such
local authority may declare a minimum speed limit below which no person shall
operate a motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe operation or in
compliance with the law. No minimum speed limit established hereunder shall be
less than 30 miles per hour, greater than 50 miles per hour, nor effective
until the provisions of R.C. § 4511.21 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, relating to appropriate signs, have been fulfilled and local
authorities have obtained the approval of the Director.
   (C)   In a case involving a violation of this section, the trier of fact, in
determining whether the vehicle was being operated at an unreasonably slow
speed, shall consider the capabilities of the vehicle and its operator.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.22)
§ 73.12 EMERGENCY VEHICLES EXCEPTED FROM SPEED LIMITATION.
   The prima facie speed limitations set forth in R.C. § 4511.21 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance do not apply to emergency vehicles
or public safety vehicles when they are responding to emergency calls and are
equipped with and displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating
light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet
to the front of the vehicle, and when the drivers thereof sound audible signals
by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle. This section does not relieve the driver of
an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons using the street or highway.
(R.C. § 4511.24)
§ 73.13 SPEED REGULATIONS ON BRIDGES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle over any bridge or other
elevated structure constituting a part of a highway at a speed which is greater
than the maximum speed that can be maintained with safety to such bridge or
structure, when such structure is posted with signs as provided in this
section.
      (2)   The Department of Transportation upon request from any local
authority shall, or upon its own initiative may, conduct an investigation of
any bridge or other elevated structure constituting a part of a highway, and if
it finds that such structure cannot with safety withstand traffic traveling at
the speed otherwise permissible under this Traffic Code, the Department shall
determine and declare the maximum speed of traffic which such structure can
withstand, and shall cause or permit suitable signs stating such maximum speed
to be erected and maintained at a distance of a least 100 feet before each end
of the structure.
      (3)   Upon the trial of any person charged with a violation of this
section, proof of such determination of the maximum speed by the Department and
the existence of such signs shall constitute prima facie evidence of the
maximum speed which can be maintained with safety to such bridge or structure.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.23)
§ 73.14 PRESENTING FALSE NAME OR INFORMATION TO OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly present, display, or orally communicate a
false name, social security number, or date of birth to a law enforcement
officer who is in the process of issuing to the person a traffic ticket or
complaint.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4513.361)
§ 73.15 PROHIBITION AGAINST RESISTING OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall resist, hinder, obstruct, or abuse any sheriff,
constable, or other official while that official is attempting to arrest
offenders under any provision of this Title VII. No person shall interfere with
any person charged under any provision of this Title VII with the enforcement
of the law relative to public highways.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.36)
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance, or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
§ 73.16 OPERATION RESTRICTED FOR MINI-TRUCKS AND LOW-SPEED, UNDER-SPEED, OR
UTILITY VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a low-speed vehicle upon any street or
highway having an established speed limit greater than 35 miles per hour.
      (2)   No person shall operate an under-speed or utility vehicle or a
mini-truck upon any street or highway except as follows:
         (a)   Upon a street or highway having an established speed limit not
greater than 35 miles per hour and only upon such streets or highways where the
municipality has granted permission for such operation in accordance with
division (E) of this section;
         (b)   A state park or political subdivision employee or volunteer
operating a utility vehicle exclusively within the boundaries of state parks or
political subdivision parks for the operation or maintenance of state or
political subdivision park facilities.
      (3)   No person shall operate a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter upon
any street or highway having an established speed limit greater than 45 miles
per hour.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   A person operating a low-speed, under-speed, or utility vehicle or
a mini-truck from proceeding across an intersection of a street or highway
having a speed limit greater than 35 miles per hour;
      (2)   A person operating a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter from
proceeding across an intersection of a street or highway having a speed limit
greater than 45 miles per hour.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the municipality from adopting
more stringent local ordinances, resolutions, or regulations governing the
operation of a low-speed vehicle or a mini-truck, or a motor-driven cycle or
motor scooter.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.214)
   (E)   By ordinance or resolution, the municipality may authorize the
operation of under-speed or utility vehicles or mini-trucks on a public street
or highway under its jurisdiction. The municipality shall do all of the
following:
      (1)   Limit the operation of those vehicles to streets and highways
having an established speed limit not greater than 35 miles per hour;
      (2)   Require the vehicle owner who wishes to operate an under-speed or
utility vehicle or a mini-truck on the public streets or highways to submit the
vehicle to an inspection conducted by a local law enforcement agency that
complies with inspection requirements established by the Department of Public
Safety under R.C. § 4513.02;
      (3)   Permit the operation on public streets or highways of only those
vehicles that successfully pass the required vehicle inspection, are registered
in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4503, and are titled in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 4505;
      (4)   Notify the Director of Public Safety, in a manner the Director
determines, of the authorization for the operation of under-speed or utility
vehicles or mini-trucks.
   (F)   The municipality may establish additional requirements for the
operation of under-speed or utility vehicles or mini-trucks on its streets and
highways.
(R.C. § 4511.215)
   (G)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (F) of this section, a person
may operate a utility vehicle on any public roads or right-of-way, other than a
freeway, when traveling from one farm field to another for agricultural
purposes if the vehicle is displaying a triangular slow-moving vehicle emblem
as described in R.C. § 4513.112.
(R.C. § 4511.216)
   (H)   (1)   Except as provided in this division (H) and divisions (E) and
(F) of this section, no person shall operate a mini-truck within this
municipality.
      (2)   A person may operate a mini-truck on a farm for agricultural
purposes only when the owner of the farm qualifies for the current agricultural
use valuation tax credit. A mini-truck may be operated by or on behalf of such
a farm owner on public roads and rights-of-way only when traveling from one
farm field to another.
      (3)   A person may operate a mini-truck on property owned or leased by a
dealer who sells mini-trucks at retail.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (H) shall be penalized as provided
in division (D) of this section.
(R.C. § 4519.401)
STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT
§ 73.30 FAILURE TO STOP AFTER ACCIDENT.
   (A)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision with
persons or property on a public road or highway, the operator of the motor
vehicle, having knowledge of the accident or collision, immediately shall stop
the operator’s motor vehicle at the scene of the accident or collision. The
operator shall remain at the scene of the accident or collision until the
operator has given the operator’s name and address and, if the operator is not
the owner, the name and address of the owner of that motor vehicle, together
with the registered number of that motor vehicle, to all of the following:
         (a)   Any person injured in the accident or collision;
         (b)   The operator, occupant, owner, or attendant of any motor vehicle
damaged in the accident or collision;
         (c)   The police officer at the scene of the accident or collision.
      (2)   In the event an injured person is unable to comprehend and record
the information required to be given under division (A)(1) of this section, the
other operator involved in the accident or collision shall notify the nearest
police authority concerning the location of the accident or collision, and the
operator’s name, address, and the registered number of the motor vehicle the
operator was operating. The operator shall remain at the scene of the accident
or collision until a police officer arrives, unless removed from the scene by
an emergency vehicle operated by a political subdivision or an ambulance.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required to be given in this section, in writing, to a
conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident. Except as otherwise provided in division (B)
(2) or (B)(3) of this section, failure to stop after an accident is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six months
of suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege required by this
division.
      (5)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.02)
§ 73.31 STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT ON OTHER THAN PUBLIC ROADS OR HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision resulting
in injury or damage to persons or property on any public or private property
other than a public road or highway, the operator of the motor vehicle, having
knowledge of the accident or collision, shall stop at the scene of the accident
or collision. Upon request of any person who is injured or damaged, or any
other person, the operator shall give that person the operator’s name and
address, and, if the operator is not the owner, the name and address of the
owner of that motor vehicle, together with the registered number of that motor
vehicle, and, if available, exhibit the operator’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license.
      (2)   If the operator of the motor vehicle involved in the accident or
collision does not provide the information specified in division (A)(1) of this
section, the operator shall give that information, within 24 hours after the
accident or collision, to the police department of the city or village in which
the accident or collision occurred, or if it occurred outside the corporate
limits of a city or village, to the sheriff of the county in which the accident
or collision occurred.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required under division (A)(1) of this section, in
writing, to a conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor
vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident. Except as otherwise provided
in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this section, failure to stop after a nonpublic
road accident is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six months
of suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege required by this
division.
      (5)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.021)
§ 73.32 ACCIDENT INVOLVING DAMAGE TO REALTY.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in
damage to real property, or personal property attached to real property,
legally upon or adjacent to a public road or highway immediately shall stop and
take reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge of the
property of that fact, of the driver’s name and address, and of the
registration number of vehicle the driver is driving and, upon request and if
available, shall exhibit the driver’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (2)   If the owner or person in charge of the property cannot be located
after reasonable search, the driver of the vehicle involved in the accident
resulting in damage to the property, within 24 hours after accident, shall
forward to the police department of the municipality the same information
required to be given to the owner or person in control of the property and give
the location of the accident and a description of the damage insofar as it is
known.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident involving the property of others, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or
after committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.03)
§ 73.33 FAILURE TO REPORT ACCIDENT.
   (A)   No person shall fail to report a motor vehicle accident as required
under state or local law.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4509.74)
CHAPTER 74: EQUIPMENT AND LOADS
Section
Equipment
   
74.01   Unsafe vehicles, prohibition against operation
   
74.02   Bumpers on motor vehicles
   
74.03   Lighted lights required
   
74.04   Headlights
   
74.05   Tail lights and illumination of rear license plate
   
74.06   Red reflectors required
   
74.07   Safety lighting of commercial vehicles
   
74.08   Stoplight regulations
   
74.09   Obscured lights on vehicles
   
74.10   Red light or flag required
   
74.11   Lights on parked vehicles
   
74.12   Lights, emblems, and reflectors on slow-moving vehicles, farm
machinery, agricultural tractors, and animal-drawn vehicles
   
74.13   Spotlight and auxiliary driving lights
   
74.14   Cowl, fender, and back-up lights
   
74.15   Two lights displayed
   
74.16   Headlights required
   
74.17   Lights of less intensity
   
74.18   Number of lights permitted; red and flashing lights
   
74.19   Standards for lights on snow removal equipment and oversize vehicles
   
74.20   Flashing lights permitted for certain types of vehicles
   
74.21   Lights and sign on transportation for preschool children
   
74.22   Focus and aim of headlights
   
74.23   Brake equipment; specifications
   
74.24   Brake fluid
   
74.25   Minimum standards for brakes and components
   
74.26   Horns, sirens, and warning devices
   
74.27   Mufflers; excessive smoke or gas
   
74.28   Rearview mirrors
   
74.29   Windshields and wipers
   
74.30   Solid tire requirements
   
74.31   Requirements for safety glass in motor vehicles; use of tinted glass or
reflectorized material
   
74.32   Directional signals
   
74.33   Installation and sale of seat safety belts required; definition
   
74.34   Requirements for extra signal equipment
   
74.35   Display of warning devices on disabled vehicles
   
74.36   Requirements for vehicles transporting explosives
   
74.37   Studded tires; seasonal use permitted
   
74.38   Safety inspection decals for buses
   
74.39   Air bags
Loads
   
74.50   Permit required to exceed load limits
   
74.51   Limitation of load extension on left side of vehicle
   
74.52   All loads shall be properly secured
   
74.53   Towing requirements; exception to size and weight restrictions
   
74.54   Weighing of vehicle; removal of excess load
   
74.55   Operation of vehicle exceeding weight limits prohibited
   
74.56   Load limits
   
74.57   Maximum width, height, and length
   
74.58   Statement of gross vehicle weight
   
74.59   Wheel protectors required on heavy commercial vehicles
   
74.60   Liability for damages; prosecution; application of monies
   
74.61   Weight exceptions for certain vehicles
Statutory reference:
   Exemption of certain vehicles from emission, noise control and fuel
standards, see R.C. § 4513.41
   Exemption of collector’s or historical vehicles from equipment standards,
see R.C. § 4513.38
   Motorcycles, protective eye devices required for operators and passengers;
helmets required for persons under 18 years of age, see O.A.C. § 4501-17-01
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Snowmobiles and all-purpose vehicles, equipment, see O.A.C. § 4501-29-01
   Vehicle lighting, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-15
EQUIPMENT
§ 74.01 UNSAFE VEHICLES, PROHIBITION AGAINST OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall drive or move, or cause or knowingly permit to be
driven or moved, on any highway any vehicle or combination of vehicles which is
in such unsafe condition as to endanger any person.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.02(A), (H))
§ 74.02 BUMPERS ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING. Means the manufacturer’s gross vehicle
weight rating established for that vehicle.
      MANUFACTURER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      MULTIPURPOSE PASSENGER VEHICLE. Means a motor vehicle with motive power,
except a motorcycle, designed to carry ten persons or less, that is constructed
either on a truck chassis or with special features for occasional off-road
operation.
      PASSENGER CAR. Means any motor vehicle with motive power, designed for
carrying ten persons or less, except a multipurpose passenger vehicle or
motorcycle.
      TRUCK. Means every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers,
designed and used to carry property and having a gross vehicle weight rating of
10,000 pounds or less.
   (B)   Rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety, in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 119, shall govern the maximum bumper height or, in the absence of
bumpers and in cases where bumper height have been lowered or modified, the
maximum height to the bottom of the frame rail of any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck.
   (C)   No person shall operate upon a street or highway any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck registered in this state that does not
conform to the requirements of this section or any applicable rule adopted
pursuant to R.C. § 4513.021.
   (D)   No person shall modify any motor vehicle registered in this state in
such a manner as to cause the vehicle body or chassis to come in contact with
the ground, expose the fuel tank to damage from collision, or cause the wheels
to come in contact with the body under normal operation, and no person shall
disconnect any part of the original suspension system of the vehicle to defeat
the safe operation of that system.
   (E)   Nothing contained in this section or in the rules adopted pursuant to
R.C. § 4513.021 shall be construed to prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   The installation upon a passenger car, multipurpose passenger
vehicle or truck registered in this state of heavy duty equipment, including
shock absorbers and overload springs:
      (2)   The operation on a street or highway of a passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle, or truck registered in this state with normal
wear to the suspension system if the normal wear does not adversely affect the
control of the vehicle.
   (F)   This section and the rules adopted pursuant to R.C. § 4513.021 do not
apply to any specially designed or modified passenger car, multipurpose
passenger vehicle, or truck when operated off a street or highway in races and
similar events.
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.021)
Statutory reference:
   Maximum height on bumpers, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-43
§ 74.03 LIGHTED LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every vehicle, other than a motorized bicycle, operated upon a street
or highway within this state shall display lighted lights and illuminating
devices as required by R.C. §§ 4513.04 to 4513.37 during all of the following
times:
      (1)   The time from sunset to sunrise;
      (2)   At any other time when, due to insufficient natural light or
unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons, vehicles, and substantial objects
on the highway are not discernible at a distance of 1,000 feet ahead;
      (3)   At any time when the windshield wipers of the vehicle are in use
because of precipitation on the windshield.
   (B)   Every motorized bicycle shall display at such times lighted lights
meeting the rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under R.C. §
4511.521. No motor vehicle, during any time specified in this section, shall be
operated upon a street or highway within this state using only parking lights
as illumination.
   (C)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the distance
from which certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible, or within
which such lamps or devices shall be visible, such distance shall be measured
upon a straight level unlighted highway under normal atmospheric conditions
unless a different condition is expressly stated.
   (D)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the mounted
height of lights or devices, it shall mean from the center of such light or
device to the level ground upon which the vehicle stands.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a vehicle being operated upon a
street or highway within this state to stop the vehicle solely because the
officer observes that a violation of division (A)(3) of this section has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of that division, or causing the arrest of or
commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of that division.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.03)
§ 74.04 HEADLIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, shall be equipped
with at least two headlights with at least one near each side of the front of
the motor vehicle.
      (2)   Every motorcycle shall be equipped with at least one and not more
than two headlights.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.04)
§ 74.05 TAIL LIGHTS AND ILLUMINATION OF REAR LICENSE PLATE.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, pole trailer or
vehicle which is being drawn at the end of a train of vehicles shall be
equipped with at least one tail light mounted on the rear which, when lighted,
shall emit a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear,
provided that in the case of a train of vehicles only the tail light on the
rearmost vehicle need be visible from the distance specified.
      (2)   Either a tail light or a separate light shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate, when
such registration plate is required, and render it legible from a distance of
50 feet to the rear. Any tail light, together with any separate light for
illuminating the rear registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted
whenever the headlights or auxiliary driving lights are lighted, except where
separate lighting systems are provided for trailers for the purpose of
illuminating such registration plate.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.05)
§ 74.06 RED REFLECTORS REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Every new motor vehicle sold after September 6, 1941, and
operated on a highway, other than a commercial tractor to which a trailer or
semitrailer is attached, shall carry at the rear, either as a part of the tail
lamps or separately, two red reflectors meeting the requirements of this
section, except that vehicles of the type mentioned in R.C. § 4513.07 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall be equipped with reflectors
as required by the regulations provided for in that section.
      (2)   Every such reflector shall be of such size and characteristics and
so maintained as to be visible at night from all distances within 300 feet to
50 feet from such vehicle.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.06)
§ 74.07 SAFETY LIGHTING OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   When the Director of Public Safety prescribes and promulgates
regulations relating to clearance lights, marker lights, reflectors and stop
lights on buses, trucks, commercial tractors, trailers, semitrailers and pole
trailers, when operated upon any highway, these vehicles shall be equipped as
required by such regulations, and such equipment shall be lighted at all times
mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
except that clearance lights and side marker lights need not be lighted on any
such vehicle when it is operated within the municipality where there is
sufficient light to reveal any person or substantial object on the highway at a
distance of 500 feet.
      (2)   Such equipment shall be in addition to all other lights
specifically required by R.C. §§ 4513.03 through 4513.16, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinances.
      (3)   Vehicles operated under the jurisdiction of the Public Utilities
Commission are not subject to this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.07)
§ 74.08 STOPLIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, and pole trailer when
operated upon a highway shall be equipped with two or more stop lights, except
that passenger cars manufactured or assembled prior to January 1, 1967,
motorcycles, and motor-driven cycles shall be equipped with at least one stop
light. Stop lights shall be mounted on the rear of the vehicle, actuated upon
application of the service brake, and may be incorporated with other rear
lights. Such stop lights when actuated shall emit a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear; provided that in the case of a train of
vehicles only the stop lights on the rearmost vehicle need be visible from the
distance specified.
      (2)   Such stop lights when actuated shall give a steady warning light to
the rear of a vehicle or train of vehicles to indicate the intention of the
operator to diminish the speed of or stop a vehicle or train of vehicles.
      (3)   When stop lights are used as required by this section, they shall
be constructed or installed so as to provide adequate and reliable illumination
and shall conform to the appropriate rules and regulations established under
R.C. § 4513.19.
      (4)   Historical motor vehicles as defined in R.C. § 4503.181, not
originally manufactured with stop lights, are not subject to this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.071)
§ 74.09 OBSCURED LIGHTS ON VEHICLES.
   Whenever motor and other vehicles are operated in combination during the
time that lights are required, any light, except tail lights, which by reason
of its location on a vehicle of the combination would be obscured by another
vehicle of the combination, need not be lighted, but this section does not
affect the requirement that lighted clearance lights be displayed on the front
of the foremost vehicle required to have clearance lights or that all lights
required on the rear of the rearmost vehicle of any combination shall be
lighted.
(R.C. § 4513.08)
§ 74.10 RED LIGHT OR FLAG REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet or
more beyond the bed or body of this vehicle, there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of the load, at the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, a red light or lantern plainly
visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the sides and rear. The red
light or lantern required by this section is in addition to the red rear light
required upon every vehicle. At any other time there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of such load a red flag or cloth not less than 16 inches
square.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.09)
§ 74.11 LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Except in case of an emergency, whenever a vehicle is parked or
stopped upon a roadway open to traffic or a shoulder adjacent thereto, whether
attended or unattended, during the times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, such vehicle shall be equipped
with one or more lights which shall exhibit a white or amber light on the
roadway side visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle,
and a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear. No lights need
be displayed upon any such vehicle when it is stopped or parked within the
municipality where there is sufficient light to reveal any person or
substantial object within a distance of 500 feet upon such highway. Any lighted
headlights upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or dimmed.
(R.C. § 4513.10)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
 
§ 74.12 LIGHTS, EMBLEMS, AND REFLECTORS ON SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES, FARM
MACHINERY, AGRICULTURAL TRACTORS, AND ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      BOAT TRAILER. Any vehicle designed and used exclusively to transport a
boat between a place of storage and a marina, or in and around a marina, when
drawn or towed on a street or highway for a distance of no more than ten miles
and at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less.
      SLOW-MOVING VEHICLE and SMV. A boat trailer, unit of farm machinery, road
construction machinery, or other machinery designed by the manufacturer to
operate at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less. The term does not include a
bicycle, motorized bicycle, electric bicycle, or animal-drawn vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.11)
   (B)   Generally.
      (1)   At the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, no person shall operate
either of the following vehicles unless it is equipped with and displays the
lamps described in division (B)(2) of this section:
         (a)   A vehicle not specifically required to be equipped with lamps or
other lighting devices by R.C. §§ 4513.03 to 4513.10;
         (b)   A vehicle referred to in R.C. § 4513.02(G).
      (2)   Vehicles described in division (B)(1) of this section shall be
equipped with both of the following:
         (a)   At least one lamp displaying a white light visible from a
distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the front of the vehicle;
         (b)   Two lamps displaying red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear of the vehicle, or as an alternative, one lamp
displaying a red light visible from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet to
the rear and two red reflectors visible from all distances of 600 feet to 100
feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful lower beams of headlamps.
      (3)   (a)   At the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, no person shall
operate a multi- wheel agricultural tractor model year 2001 or earlier on a
street or highway unless it is equipped with and displays reflectors and
illuminated amber lamps so that the extreme left and right projections of the
tractor are indicated by all of the following:
            1.   Flashing lamps displaying amber light, visible to the front
and the rear. The lamps need not flash simultaneously and need not flash in
conjunction with any directional signals of the tractor;
            2.   Amber reflectors, all visible to the front;
            3.   Red reflectors, all visible to the rear.
         (b)   Rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under R.C. §
4513.111 governing the lamps and reflectors described in division (B)(3)(a) of
this section and their placement correlate with and, as far as possible,
conform with paragraphs 4.1.4.1, 4.1.7.1, and 4.1.7.2 respectively of the
American Society of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S279.10 OCT 98,
Lighting and Marking of Agricultural Equipment on Highways.
      (4)   At the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, no person shall operate a
unit of farm machinery model year 2002 or later on a street or highway unless
it is equipped with and displays markings and illuminated lamps that meet or
exceed the lighting, illumination, and marking standards and specifications
that are applicable to that type of farm machinery for the unit’s model year
specified in the American society of agricultural engineers standard ANSI/ASAE
S279.10 OCT 98, lighting and marking of agricultural equipment on highways.
      (5)   Any unit of farm machinery designed by its manufacturer to operate
at a speed of 25 miles per hour or greater or any SMV may be equipped with and
display a red flashing light that is visible from a distance of not less than
1,000 feet to the rear at all times specified in R.C. § 4513.03. When a double-
faced light is used, it shall display amber light to the front and red light to
the rear.
      (6)   Lights and reflectors required under divisions (B)(3) and (B)(4) of
this section and authorized under division (B)(5) of this section are in
addition to other lights required or permitted by this division (B) or R.C. §
4513.17.
      (7)   The Ohio Director of Public Safety shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 that establish standards and specifications for lamps and
reflectors required or authorized by this section. Lamps and reflectors
required or authorized by this section shall meet those standards and
specifications.
      (8)   This division (B) does not apply to a bicycle, motorized bicycle,
electric bicycle, or animal-drawn vehicle.
      (9)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.111)
   (C)   Slow-moving vehicles.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person shall
operate an SMV on a street or highway as follows:
         (a)   At a speed exceeding 25 miles per hour;
         (b)   Without displaying the triangular SMV emblem mounted in
accordance with division (C)(2) of this section.
      (2)   The SMV emblem shall be mounted so as to be visible from a distance
of not less than 500 feet to the rear. In accordance with R.C. Chapter 119, the
Ohio Director of Public Safety shall adopt standards and specifications for the
design and position of mounting the SMV emblem. The standards and
specifications for the SMV emblem correlate with and, so far as possible,
conform with those approved by the American Society of Agricultural Engineers.
      (3)   A person may operate an SMV on a street or highway without
displaying the triangular SMV emblem when any of the following apply:
         (a)   The SMV is being used in actual construction and maintenance
work in an area guarded by a flagperson, or where flares are used.
         (b)   The SMV is operating or traveling within the limits of a
construction area designated by the Ohio Director of Transportation, a city
engineer, or the county engineer of the several counties, when such
construction area is marked in accordance with requirements of the Ohio
Director of Transportation and the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices,
as set forth in R.C. § 4511.09.
      (4)   No person shall display an SMV emblem on any of the following:
         (a)   Any vehicle not required to use the SMV emblem by this division
(C) or R.C. § 4513.113 or 4513.114;
         (b)   An SMV being transported upon any other vehicle;
         (c)   Any stationary object on the highway.
      (5)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate an SMV, except a unit
designed to be completely mounted on a primary power unit that is manufactured
or assembled on or after April 1, 1966, unless it is equipped with an SMV
emblem mounting device.
      (6)   Whoever violates this division (C) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.112)
   (D)   Farm machinery and agricultural tractors.
      (1)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate on a street or
highway any unit of farm machinery that is designed by its manufacturer to
operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless the unit displays both
of the following:
         (a)   The SMV emblem mounted in accordance with R.C. § 4513.112(B);
         (b)   A speed identification symbol that does both of the following:
            1.   Meets the specifications contained in the American Society of
Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S584 JAN2005, Agricultural Equipment:
Speed Identification Symbol (SIS);
            2.   Indicates the maximum speed in miles per hour at which the
unit of farm machinery is designed by its manufacturer to operate.
      (2)   No person operating a tractor on a street or highway that is
designed by its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per
hour and that is towing, pulling, or otherwise drawing a unit of farm machinery
while operating at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour shall fail to display
both of the following on the unit of farm machinery:
         (a)   The SMV emblem;
         (b)   The speed identification symbol that matches the speed
identification symbol required to be displayed on the agricultural tractor.
      (3)   No person shall operate an agricultural tractor that is designed by
its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless
the person possesses documentation published or provided by the manufacturer
indicating the maximum speed in miles per hour at which the manufacturer
designed the agricultural tractor to operate.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (D) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.113)
   (E)   Animal-drawn vehicles.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(4) of this section, no
person shall operate an animal-drawn vehicle on a street or highway unless it
is equipped with and displays, at the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, both
of the following:
         (a)   At least one lamp displaying a white light visible from a
distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the front of the animal-drawn vehicle;
         (b)   Two lamps displaying red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear of the animal-drawn vehicle, or as an
alternative, one lamp displaying a red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear and two red reflectors visible from all
distances of 600 feet to one hundred feet to the rear when illuminated by the
lawful lower beams of headlamps.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(4) of this section, no
person shall operate an animal-drawn vehicle on a street or highway unless it
is equipped with and displays, at all times, all of the following:
         (a)   One yellow flashing lamp displaying yellow light that is visible
from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet and that is mounted in either of
the following positions:
            1.   On the top most portion of the rear of the animal-drawn
vehicle;
            2.   On the top of the animal-drawn vehicle.
         (b)   At least one of the following:
            1.   An SMV emblem mounted in accordance with R.C. § 4513.112(B);
            2.   Micro-prism reflective tape that is visible from a distance of
not less than 500 feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful lower beams
of headlamps;
            3.   Both an SMV emblem and micro-prism reflective tape, as
specified in this division.
         (c)   Lamps and micro-prism reflective tape required by this section
shall meet standards and specifications adopted by the Ohio Director of Public
Safety under R.C. § 4513.114.
      (3)   The Ohio Director of Public Safety, in accordance with R.C. Chapter
119, shall adopt rules establishing standards and specifications for the
position and mounting of the lamps and micro-prism reflective tape required by
R.C. § 4513.114. The rules permit the micro-prism reflective tape to be red,
amber, white, or silver in color.
      (4)   (a)   Divisions (E)(1) and (E)(2) of this section do not apply to
the operator of animal-drawn agricultural equipment who is not transporting any
livestock or a person other than the operator.
         (b)   No operator described in division (E)(4)(a) of this section
shall operate animal-drawn agricultural equipment unless it is equipped with
and displays, at all times, the SMV emblem mounted in accordance with R.C. §
4513.112(B).
         (c)   As used in division (E)(4) of this section, “animal-drawn
agricultural equipment” means equipment drawn by the muscular power of an
animal that is used solely for agricultural purposes. “Animal-drawn
agricultural equipment” includes any of the following:
            1.   A plow;
            2.   A manure spreader;
            3.   A thresher.
      (5)   Whoever violates this division (E) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.114)
   (F)   Strict liability offenses. The offenses established under this section
are strict liability offenses, and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The
designation of these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be
construed to imply that any other offense, for which there is no specified
degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4513.115)
§ 74.13 SPOTLIGHT AND AUXILIARY DRIVING LIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one
spotlight and every lighted spotlight shall be so aimed and used upon
approaching another vehicle that no part of the high- intensity portion of the
beam will be directed to the left of the prolongation of the extreme left side
of the vehicle, nor more than 100 feet ahead of the vehicle.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than three
auxiliary driving lights mounted on the front of the vehicle. Any such lights
which do not conform to the specifications for auxiliary driving lights and the
regulations for their use prescribed by the Director of Public Safety shall not
be used.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.12)
§ 74.14 COWL, FENDER, AND BACK-UP LIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with side cowl or fender
lights which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with lights on each side thereof
which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (3)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with back-up lights, either
separately or in combination with another light. No back-up lights shall be
continuously lighted when the motor vehicle is in forward motion.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.13)
§ 74.15 TWO LIGHTS DISPLAYED.
   (A)   At all times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, at least two lighted lights shall be displayed, one near
each side of the front of every motor vehicle, except when such vehicle is
parked subject to the regulations governing lights on parked vehicles.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.14)
§ 74.16 HEADLIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated on a roadway or shoulder
adjacent thereto during the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the driver shall use a
distribution of light, or composite beam, directed high enough and of
sufficient intensity to reveal persons, vehicles and substantial objects at a
safe distance in advance of the vehicle, subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle,
such driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam, so aimed that
the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the oncoming driver.
      (2)   Every new motor vehicle registered in this state which has
multiple-beam road lighting equipment shall be equipped with a beam indicator,
which shall be lighted whenever the uppermost distribution of light from the
headlights is in use, and shall not otherwise be lighted. This indicator shall
be so designed and located that, when lighted, it will be readily visible
without glare to the driver of the vehicle.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.15)
§ 74.17 LIGHTS OF LESS INTENSITY.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle may be operated under the conditions specified in
R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance when it is
equipped with two lighted lights upon the front thereof capable of revealing
persons and substantial objects 75 feet ahead, in lieu of lights required in
R.C. § 4513.14 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, provided that
such vehicle shall not be operated at a speed in excess of 20 miles per hour.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.16)
§ 74.18 NUMBER OF LIGHTS PERMITTED; RED AND FLASHING LIGHTS.
   (A)   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with headlights is also equipped
with any auxiliary lights or spotlight or any other light on the front thereof
projecting a beam of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower, not more than a
total of five of any such lights on the front of a vehicle shall be lighted at
any one time when the vehicle is upon a highway.
   (B)   Any lighted light or illuminating device upon a motor vehicle, other
than headlights, spotlights, signal lights, or auxiliary driving lights, that
projects a beam of light of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower shall be
so directed that no part of the beam will strike the level of the roadway on
which the vehicle stands at a distance of more than 75 feet from the vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   Flashing lights are prohibited on motor vehicles, except as a
means for indicating a right or a left turn, or in the presence of a vehicular
traffic hazard requiring unusual care in approaching, or overtaking or passing.
      (2)   The prohibition in division (C)(1) of this section does not apply
to any of the following:
         (a)   Emergency vehicles, road service vehicles servicing or towing a
disabled vehicle, stationary waste collection vehicles actively collecting
garbage, refuse, trash, or recyclable materials on the roadside, rural mail
delivery vehicles, vehicles as provided in R.C. § 4513.182, highway maintenance
vehicles, and similar equipment operated by state or local authorities,
provided such vehicles are equipped with and display, when used on a street or
highway for the special purpose necessitating such lights, a flashing,
oscillating, or rotating amber light;
         (b)   Vehicles or machinery permitted by R.C. § 4513.111 to have a
flashing red light;
         (c)   Farm machinery and vehicles escorting farm machinery, provided
such machinery and vehicles are equipped with and display, when used on a
street or highway, a flashing, oscillating, or rotating amber light. Farm
machinery also may display the lights described in R.C. § 4513.111.
         (d)   A funeral hearse or funeral escort vehicle, provided that the
funeral hearse or funeral escort vehicle is equipped with and displays, when
used on a street or highway for the special purpose necessitating such lights,
a flashing, oscillating, or rotating purple or amber light;
         (e)   A vehicle being used for emergency preparedness, response, and
recovery activities, as those terms are defined in R.C. § 5502.21, that is
equipped with and displays, when used on a street or highway for the special
purpose necessitating such lights, a flashing, oscillating, or rotating amber
or red and white light, provided that the vehicle is being operated by a person
from one of the following and the vehicle is clearly marked with the applicable
agency’s or authority’s insignia:
            1.   The Ohio Emergency Management Agency;
            2.   A countywide emergency management agency established under
R.C. § 5502.26;
            3.   A regional authority for emergency management established
under R.C. § 5502.27;
            4.   A program for emergency management established under R.C. §
5502.271.
      (3)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to animal-drawn
vehicles subject to R.C. § 4513.114.
   (D)   (1)   Except a person operating a public safety vehicle, as defined in
R.C. § 4511.01(E), an emergency management agency vehicle, as described in
division (C)(2)(e) of this section, or a school bus, no person shall operate,
move, or park upon, or permit to stand within the right-of-way of any public
street or highway any vehicle or equipment that is equipped with and displaying
a flashing red or a flashing combination red and white light, or an oscillating
or rotating red light, or a combination red and white oscillating or rotating
light.
      (2)   Except a public law enforcement officer, or other person sworn to
enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state, operating a public safety
vehicle when on duty, no person shall operate, move, or park upon, or permit to
stand within the right-of-way of any street or highway any vehicle or equipment
that is equipped with, or upon which is mounted, and displaying a flashing blue
or a flashing combination blue and white light, or an oscillating or rotating
blue light, or a combination blue and white oscillating or rotating light.
   (E)   This section does not prohibit the use of warning lights required by
law or the simultaneous flashing of turn signals on disabled vehicles or on
vehicles being operated in unfavorable atmospheric conditions in order to
enhance their visibility. This section also does not prohibit the simultaneous
flashing of turn signals or warning lights whether on farm machinery or
vehicles escorting farm machinery when used on a street or highway.
(R.C. § 4513.17)
   (F)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a motor vehicle
operated by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator may be equipped
with a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and siren, whistle
or bell capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a
distance of not less than 500 feet. Such a vehicle may display the flashing,
oscillating or rotating red or blue light and may give the audible signal of
the siren, whistle or bell only when responding to a fatality or a fatal motor
vehicle accident on a street or highway and only at those locations where the
stoppage of traffic impedes the ability of the coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator to arrive at the site of the fatality.
      (2)   This division (F) does not relieve the coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with
due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4513.171)
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4513.17(F), 4513.171(B))
§ 74.19 STANDARDS FOR LIGHTS ON SNOW REMOVAL EQUIPMENT AND OVERSIZE VEHICLES.
   (A)   It is unlawful to operate snow removal equipment on a highway unless
the lights thereon comply with and are lighted when and as required by the
standards and specifications adopted by the Director of Transportation pursuant
to R.C. § 4513.18.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.18)
§ 74.20 FLASHING LIGHTS PERMITTED FOR CERTAIN TYPES OF VEHICLES.
   Rural mail delivery vehicles, state highway survey vehicles, and funeral
escort vehicles are permitted to use flashing lights.
(R.C. § 4513.181)
§ 74.21 LIGHTS AND SIGN ON TRANSPORTATION FOR PRESCHOOL CHILDREN.
   (A)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle owned, leased, or hired by a
nursery school, kindergarten, or child care center, while transporting
preschool children to or from such an institution unless the motor vehicle is
equipped with and displaying two amber flashing lights mounted on a bar
attached to the top of the vehicle, and a sign bearing the designation “caution
– children”, which shall be attached to the bar carrying the amber flashing
lights in such a manner as to be legible to persons both in front of and behind
the vehicle. The lights and sign shall meet standards and specifications
adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle displaying the lights and sign
required by this section for any purpose other than the transportation of
preschool children as provided in this section.
(R.C. § 4513.182)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.22 FOCUS AND AIM OF HEADLIGHTS.
   (A)   No person shall use any lights mentioned in R.C. §§ 4513.03 through
4513.18, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, upon any motor
vehicle, trailer or semitrailer unless these lights are equipped, mounted and
adjusted as to focus and aim in accordance with regulations which are
prescribed by the Director of Public Safety.
   (B)   The headlights on any motor vehicle shall comply with the headlamp
color requirements contained in Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number
108, 49 C.F.R. § 571.108. No person shall operate a motor vehicle in violation
of this division.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.19)
§ 74.23 BRAKE EQUIPMENT; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The following requirements govern as to brake equipment on vehicles:
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, when operated upon a
highway shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and
to stop and hold the motor vehicle, including two separate means of applying
the brakes, each of which means shall be effective to apply the brakes to at
least two wheels. If these two separate means of applying the brakes are
connected in any way, then on such motor vehicles, manufactured or assembled
after January 1, 1942, they shall be so constructed that failure of any one
part of the operating mechanism shall not leave the motor vehicle without
brakes on at least two wheels.
      (2)   Every motorcycle, when operated upon a highway shall be equipped
with at least one adequate brake, which may be operated by hand or by foot.
      (3)   Every motorized bicycle shall be equipped with brakes meeting the
rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety under R.C. § 4511.521.
      (4)   When operated upon the highways, the following vehicles shall be
equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and to
hold the vehicle, designed to be applied by the driver of the towing motor
vehicle from its cab, and also designed and connected so that, in case of a
breakaway of the towed vehicle, the brakes shall be automatically applied:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every trailer or
semitrailer, except a pole trailer, with an empty weight of 2,000 pounds or
more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1942;
         (b)   Every manufactured home or travel trailer with an empty weight
of 2,000 pounds or more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 2001.
      (5)   Every watercraft trailer with a gross weight or manufacturer’s
gross vehicle weight rating of 3,000 pounds or more that is manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 2008, shall have separate brakes equipped with
hydraulic surge or electrically operated brakes on two wheels.
      (6)   In any combination of motor-drawn trailers or semitrailers equipped
with brakes, means shall be provided for applying the rearmost brakes in
approximate synchronism with the brakes on the towing vehicle, and developing
the required braking effort on the rearmost wheels at the fastest rate; or
means shall be provided for applying braking effort first on the rearmost
brakes; or both of the above means, capable of being used alternatively, may be
employed.
      (7)   Every vehicle and combination of vehicles, except motorcycles and
motorized bicycles, and except trailers and semitrailers of a gross weight of
less than 2,000 pounds, and pole trailers, shall be equipped with parking
brakes adequate to hold the vehicle on any grade on which it is operated, under
all conditions of loading, on a surface free from snow, ice, or loose material.
The parking brakes shall be capable of being applied in conformance with the
foregoing requirements by the driver’s muscular effort or by spring action or
by equivalent means. Their operation may be assisted by the service brakes or
other source of power provided that failure of the service brake actuation
system or other power assisting mechanism will not prevent the parking brakes
from being applied in conformance with the foregoing requirements. The parking
brakes shall be so designed that when once applied they shall remain applied
with the required effectiveness despite exhaustion of any source of energy or
leakage of any kind.
      (8)   The same brake drums, brake shoes and lining assemblies, brake shoe
anchors, and mechanical brake shoe actuation mechanism normally associated with
the wheel brake assemblies may be used for both the service brakes and the
parking brakes. If the means of applying the parking brakes and the service
brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that failure of
any one part shall not leave the vehicle without operative brakes.
      (9)   Every motor vehicle or combination of motor-drawn vehicles shall,
at all times and under all conditions of loading, be capable of being stopped
on a dry, smooth, level road free from loose material, upon application of the
service or foot brake, within the following specified distances, or shall be
capable of being decelerated at a sustained rate corresponding to these
distances:
         (a)   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles having brakes on all wheels
shall come to a stop in 30 feet or less from a speed of 20 miles per hour.
         (b)   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles not having brakes on all
wheels shall come to a stop in 40 feet or less from a speed of 20 miles per
hour.
      (10)   All brakes shall be maintained in good working order and shall be
so adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with respect to the wheels
on opposite sides of the vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.20)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.24 BRAKE FLUID.
   (A)   No hydraulic brake fluid for use in motor vehicles shall be sold in
this municipality if the brake fluid is below the minimum standard of
specifications for heavy duty type brake fluid established by the society of
automotive engineers and the standard of specifications established by 49
C.F.R. § 571.116, as amended.
   (B)   All manufacturers, packers, or distributors of brake fluid selling
such fluid in this municipality shall state on the containers that the brake
fluid meets or exceeds the applicable minimum SAE standard of specifications,
and the standard of specifications established in 49 C.F.R. § 571.116, as
amended.
(R.C. § 4513.201)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.25 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR BRAKES AND COMPONENTS.
   (A)   No brake lining, brake lining material, or brake lining assemblies for
use as repair and replacement parts in motor vehicles shall be sold in this
municipality if these items do not meet or exceed the minimum standard of
specifications established by the Society of Automotive Engineers and the
standard of specifications established in 49 C.F.R. § 571.105, as amended, and
49 C.F.R. § 571.135, as amended.
   (B)   All manufacturers or distributors of brake lining, brake lining
material, or brake lining assemblies selling these items for use as repair and
replacement parts in motor vehicles shall state that the items meet or exceed
the applicable minimum standard of specifications.
   (C)   As used in this section, MINIMUM STANDARD OF SPECIFICATIONS means a
minimum standard for brake system or brake component performance that meets the
need for motor vehicle safety and complies with the applicable SAE standards
and recommended practices, and the federal motor vehicle safety standards that
cover the same aspect of performance for any brake lining, brake lining
material, or brake lining assemblies.
(R.C. § 4513.202)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.26 HORNS, SIRENS, AND WARNING DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a highway shall be
equipped with a horn which is in good working order and capable of emitting
sound audible, under normal conditions, from a distance of not less than 200
feet.
      (2)   No motor vehicle shall be equipped with, nor shall any person use
upon a vehicle, any siren, whistle, or bell. Any vehicle may be equipped with a
theft alarm signal device which shall be so arranged that it cannot be used as
an ordinary warning signal. Every emergency vehicle shall be equipped with a
siren, whistle or bell, capable of emitting sound audible under normal
conditions from a distance of not less than 500 feet and of a type approved by
the Director of Public Safety. Such equipment shall not be used except when
such vehicle is operated in response to an emergency call or is in the
immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law, in which case
the driver of the emergency vehicle shall sound such equipment when it is
necessary to warn pedestrians and other drivers of the approach thereof.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.21)
§ 74.27 MUFFLERS; EXCESSIVE SMOKE OR GAS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle with an internal combustion
engine shall at all times be equipped with a muffler which is in good working
order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise, and no
person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device upon a motor
vehicle on a highway. Every motorcycle muffler shall be equipped with baffle
plates.
      (2)   No person shall own, operate or have in the person’s possession any
motor vehicle or motorcycle equipped with a device for producing excessive
smoke or gas, or so equipped as to permit oil or any other chemical to flow
into or upon the exhaust pipe or muffler of such vehicle, or equipped in any
way to produce or emit smoke or dangerous or annoying gases from any portion of
such vehicle, other than the ordinary gases emitted by the exhaust of an
internal combustion engine under normal operation.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.22)
§ 74.28 REARVIEW MIRRORS.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle shall be equipped with a mirror so
located as to reflect to the operator a view of the highway to the rear of such
vehicle or motorcycle. Operators of vehicles and motorcycles shall have a clear
and unobstructed view to the front and to both sides of their vehicles and
motorcycles and shall have a clear view to the rear of their vehicles and
motorcycles by mirror.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.23)
§ 74.29 WINDSHIELDS AND WIPERS.
   (A)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle on a street or highway in this
municipality, other than a motorcycle or motorized bicycle, that is not
equipped with a windshield.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle, other than a bus, with
any sign, poster, or other nontransparent material upon the front windshield,
sidewings, side, or rear windows of such vehicle other than a certificate or
other paper required to be displayed by law, except that there may be in the
lower left-hand or right-hand corner of the windshield a sign, poster, or decal
not to exceed four inches in height by six inches in width. No sign, poster, or
decal shall be displayed in the front windshield in such a manner as to conceal
the vehicle identification number for the motor vehicle when, in accordance
with federal law, that number is located inside the vehicle passenger
compartment and so placed as to be readable through the vehicle glazing without
moving any part of the vehicle.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a passenger car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if either of
the following apply to the device:
         (a)   It is a “vehicle safety technology” as defined in 49 C.F.R. §
393.5 and complies with 49 C.F.R. § 393.60(e)(1)(ii).
         (b)   It does not restrict the vehicle operator’s sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals, and it does not conceal the vehicle
identification number.
      (3)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a commercial car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if either of
the following apply to the device:
         (a)   It is a “vehicle safety technology” as defined in 49 C.F.R. §
393.5 and complies with 49 C.F.R. § 393.60(e)(1)(ii).
         (b)   It does not restrict the vehicle operator’s sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals, and it is mounted not more than 8.5 inches
below the upper edge of the windshield.
   (C)   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for cleaning rain, snow, or other moisture from the windshield. The device
shall be maintained in good working order and so constructed as to be
controlled or operated by the operator of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.24)
§ 74.30 SOLID TIRE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every solid tire, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, on a vehicle shall
have rubber or other resilient material on its entire traction surface at least
one inch thick above the edge of the flange of the entire periphery.
(R.C. § 4513.25)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.31 REQUIREMENTS FOR SAFETY GLASS IN MOTOR VEHICLES; USE OF TINTED GLASS OR
REFLECTORIZED MATERIAL.
   (A)   Safety glass.
      (1)   No person shall sell any new motor vehicle nor shall any new motor
vehicle be registered, and no person shall operate any motor vehicle, which is
registered in this state and which has been manufactured or assembled on or
after January 1, 1936, unless the motor vehicle is equipped with safety glass,
wherever glass is used in the windshields, doors, partitions, rear windows, and
windows on each side immediately adjacent to the rear window.
      (2)   As used in this section, SAFETY GLASS means any product composed of
glass so manufactured, fabricated, or treated as substantially to prevent
shattering and flying of the glass when it is struck or broken, or such other
or similar product as may be approved by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles.
      (3)   Glass other than safety glass shall not be offered for sale, or
sold for use in, or installed in any door, window, partition, or windshield
that is required by this section to be equipped with safety glass.
(R.C. § 4513.26)
   (B)   Tinted or reflectorized material.
      (1)   No person shall operate, on any highway or other public or private
property open to the public for vehicular travel or parking, lease, or rent any
motor vehicle that is registered in this state unless the motor vehicle
conforms to the requirements concerning tinted glass and reflectorized material
of R.C. § 4513.241 and of any applicable rule adopted under that section.
      (2)   No person shall install in or on any motor vehicle, any glass or
other material that fails to conform to the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or
of any rule adopted under that section.
      (3)   (a)   No used motor vehicle dealer or new motor vehicle dealer, as
defined in R.C. § 4517.01, shall sell any motor vehicle that fails to conform
to the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or of any rule adopted under that
section.
         (b)   No manufacturer, remanufacturer, or distributor, as defined in
R.C. § 4517.01, shall provide to a motor vehicle dealer licensed under R.C.
Chapter 4517 or to any other person, a motor vehicle that fails to conform to
the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or of any rule adopted under that section.
      (4)   No reflectorized materials shall be permitted upon or in any front
windshield, side windows, sidewings, or rear window.
      (5)   This division (B) does not apply to the manufacturer’s tinting or
glazing of motor vehicle windows or windshields that is otherwise in compliance
with or permitted by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard #205.
      (6)   With regard to any side window behind a driver’s seat or any rear
window other than any window on an emergency door, this division (B) does not
apply to any school bus used to transport a child with disabilities pursuant to
R.C. Chapter 3323, whom it is impossible or impractical to transport by regular
school bus in the course of regular route transportation provided by a school
district. As used in this division, CHILD WITH DISABILITIES has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 3323.01.
      (7)   This division (B) does not apply to any school bus that is to be
sold and operated outside the municipality.
      (8)   (a)   This division (B) does not apply to a motor vehicle used by a
law enforcement agency under either of the following circumstances:
            1.   The vehicle does not have distinctive markings of a law
enforcement vehicle but is operated by or on behalf of the law enforcement
agency in an authorized investigation or other activity requiring that the
presence and identity of the vehicle occupants be undisclosed.
            2.   The vehicle primarily is used by the law enforcement canine
unit for transporting a police dog.
         (b)   As used in this division, LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY means a police
department, the office of a sheriff, the State Highway Patrol, a county
prosecuting attorney, or a federal, state, or local governmental body that
enforces criminal laws and that has employees who have a statutory power of
arrest.
(R.C. § 4513.241(C) - (J))
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1),(B)(3)(b) or (B)(4) of this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(3)(a) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor if the dealer or the dealer’s agent knew of the nonconformity
at the time of sale.
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, except that an organization may not be
convicted unless the act of installation was authorized by the board of
directors, trustees, partners, or by a high managerial officer acting on behalf
of the organization, and installation was performed by an employee of the
organization acting within the scope of the person’s employment.
         (b)   In addition to any other penalty imposed under this section,
whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is liable in a civil action to
the owner of a motor vehicle on which was installed the nonconforming glass or
material for any damages incurred by that person as a result of the
installation of the nonconforming glass or material, costs of maintaining the
civil action, and attorney fees.
         (c)   In addition to any other penalty imposed under this section, if
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation
of division (B)(2) of this section and the offender is a motor vehicle repair
operator registered under R.C. Chapter 4775 or a motor vehicle dealer licensed
under R.C. Chapter 4517, whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is
subject to a registration or license suspension, as applicable, for a period of
not more than 180 days.
(R.C. § 4513.241(K))
Statutory reference:
   Recording and reporting violations, certain court requirements, see R.C. §
4513.241(L)
   Regulations, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-41
§ 74.32 DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 1954, unless the vehicle is equipped with
electrical or mechanical directional signals.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motorcycle or motor-driven cycle
manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1968, unless the vehicle is
equipped with electrical or mechanical directional signals.
   (B)   As used in this section, DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS means an electrical or
mechanical signal device capable of clearly indicating an intention to turn
either to the right or to the left and which shall be visible from both the
front and rear.
   (C)   All mechanical signal devices shall be self-illuminating devices when
in use at the times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.261)
§ 74.33 INSTALLATION AND SALE OF SEAT SAFETY BELTS REQUIRED; DEFINITION.
   (A)   As used in this section and in R.C. § 4513.263 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the component parts of a seat safety belt
include a belt, anchor attachment assembly, and a buckle or closing device.
   (B)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate any passenger car, as
defined in R.C. § 4501.01(E), that is registered or to be registered in this
state and that is manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1962, unless
the passenger car is equipped with sufficient anchorage units at the attachment
points for attaching at least two sets of seat safety belts to its front seat.
Such anchorage units at the attachment points shall be of such construction,
design, and strength to support a loop load pull of not less than 4,000 pounds
for each belt.
   (C)   No person shall sell, lease, or rent any passenger car, as defined in
R.C. § 4501.01(E), that is registered or to be registered in this state and
that is manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1966, unless the
passenger car has installed in its front seat at least two seat safety belt
assemblies.
   (D)   After January 1, 1966, neither any seat safety belt for use in a motor
vehicle nor any component part of any such seat safety belt shall be sold in
this municipality unless the seat safety belt or the component part satisfies
the minimum standard of specifications established by the society of automotive
engineers for automotive seat belts and unless the seat safety belt or
component part is labeled so as to indicate that it meets those minimum
standard specifications.
   (E)   Each sale, lease, or rental in violation of this section constitutes a
separate offense.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.262)
Statutory reference:
   Child restraint systems, regulations, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-37
§ 74.34 REQUIREMENTS FOR EXTRA SIGNAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No person shall operate any motor truck, bus, or commercial tractor
upon any highway at any time from sunset to sunrise unless there is carried in
such vehicle, except as provided in division (B) of this section, the following
equipment which shall be of the types approved by the Director of
Transportation.
      (1)   At least three flares or three red reflectors or three red electric
lanterns, each of which is capable of being seen and distinguished at a
distance of 500 feet under normal atmospheric conditions at nighttime;
      (2)   At least three red-burning fusees, unless red reflectors or red
electric lanterns are carried;
      (3)   At least two red cloth flags, not less than two inches square, with
standards to support them;
      (4)   The type of red reflectors shall comply with such standards and
specifications in effect on September 16, 1963, or later established by the
Interstate Commerce Commission and must be certified as meeting such standards
by Underwriters Laboratories.
   (B)   No person shall operate at the time and under the conditions stated in
this section any motor vehicle used in transporting flammable liquids in bulk,
or in transporting compressed flammable gases, unless there is carried in such
vehicle three red electric lanterns or three red reflectors meeting the
requirements stated in division (A) of this section. There shall not be carried
in any such vehicle any flare, fusee, or signal produced by a flame.
   (C)   This section does not apply to any person who operates any motor
vehicle in a work area designated by protection equipment devices that are
displayed and used in accordance with the manual adopted by the Department of
Transportation under R.C. § 4511.09.
(R.C. § 4513.27)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.35 DISPLAY OF WARNING DEVICES ON DISABLED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any motor truck, bus, commercial tractor, trailer,
semitrailer, or pole trailer is disabled upon any freeway, expressway, thruway
and connecting, entering, or exiting ramps within the municipality, at any time
when lighted lamps are required on vehicles, the operator of such vehicle shall
display the following warning devices upon the highway during the time the
vehicle is so disabled on the highway except as provided in division (B) of
this section:
      (1)   A lighted fusee shall be immediately placed on the roadway at the
traffic side of such vehicle, unless red electric lanterns or red reflectors
are displayed.
      (2)   Within the burning period of the fusee and as promptly as possible,
three lighted flares or pot torches, or three red reflectors or three red
electric lanterns shall be placed on the roadway as follows:
         (a)   One at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet in
advance of the vehicle;
         (b)   One at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet to the
rear of the vehicle, except as provided in this section, each in the center of
the lane of traffic occupied by the disabled vehicle;
         (c)   One at the traffic side of the vehicle.
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle used in transporting flammable liquids in bulk,
or in transporting compressed flammable gases, is disabled upon a highway at
any time or place mentioned in division (A) of this section, the driver of such
vehicle shall display upon the roadway the following warning devices:
      (1)   One red electric lantern or one red reflector shall be immediately
placed on the roadway at the traffic side of the vehicle;
      (2)   Two other red electric lanterns or two other red reflectors shall
be placed to the front and rear of the vehicle in the same manner prescribed
for flares in division (A) of this section.
   (C)   When a vehicle of a type specified in division (B) of this section is
disabled, the use of flares, fusees, or any signal produced by flame as warning
signals is prohibited.
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle of a type referred to in this section is disabled
upon any freeway, expressway, thruway, and connecting, entering, or exiting
ramps within the municipality, at any time when the display of fusees, flares,
red reflectors, or electric lanterns is not required, the operator of such
vehicle shall display two red flags upon the roadway in the lane of traffic
occupied by the disabled vehicle, one at a distance of 40 paces or
approximately 100 feet in advance of the vehicle, and one at a distance of 40
paces or approximately 100 feet to the rear of the vehicle, except as provided
in this section.
   (E)   The flares, fusees, lanterns, red reflectors, and flags to be
displayed as required in this section shall conform with the applicable
requirements of R.C. § 4513.27 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (F)   In the event the vehicle is disabled near a curve, crest of a hill, or
other obstruction of view, the flare, flag, reflector, or lantern in that
direction shall be placed as to afford ample warning to other users of the
highway, but in no case shall it be placed less than 40 paces or approximately
100 feet nor more than 120 paces or approximately 300 feet from the disabled
vehicle.
   (G)   This section does not apply to the operator of any vehicle in a work
area designated by protection equipment devices that are displayed and used in
accordance with the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation under
R.C. § 4511.09.
   (H)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.28)
§ 74.36 REQUIREMENTS FOR VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Any person operating any vehicle transporting explosives upon a
highway shall at all times comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   The vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side and on the
rear with the word “EXPLOSIVES” in letters not less than eight inches high, or
there shall be displayed on the rear of such vehicle a red flag not less than
24 inches square marked with the word “DANGER” in white letters six inches
high, or shall be marked or placarded in accordance with Section 177.823 of the
United States Department of Transportation regulations.
      (2)   The vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two fire
extinguishers, filled and ready for immediate use, and placed at convenient
points on such vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.29)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.37 STUDDED TIRES; SEASONAL USE PERMITTED.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, STUDDED TIRE means any tire designed
for use on a vehicle and equipped with metal studs or studs of wear-resisting
material that project beyond the tread of the traction surface of the tire.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, no person
shall operate any motor vehicle other than a public safety vehicle or school
bus that is equipped with studded tires on any street or highway in this
municipality, except during the period extending from the first day of November
of each year through the fifteenth day of April of the succeeding year.
      (2)   A person may operate a motor vehicle that is equipped with
retractable studded tires with the studs retracted at any time of the year, but
shall operate the motor vehicle with the studs extended only as provided in
division (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   This section does not apply to the use of tire chains when there is
snow or ice on the streets or highways where such chains are being used, or the
immediate vicinity thereof.
(R.C. § 5589.081)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
§ 74.38 SAFETY INSPECTION DECALS FOR BUSES.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      BUS.
         (a)   Means any vehicle used for the transportation of passengers that
meets at least one of the following:
            1.   Was originally designed by the manufacturer to transport more
than 15 passengers, including the driver;
            2.   Either the gross vehicle weight rating or the gross vehicle
weight exceeds 10,000 pounds.
         (b)   The term does not include a church bus as defined in R.C. §
4503.07 or a school bus unless the church bus or school bus is used in the
transportation of passengers by a motor carrier.
         (c)   The term also does not include any of the following:
            1.   Any vehicle operated exclusively on a rail or rails;
            2.   A trolley bus operated by electric power derived from a fixed
overhead wire furnishing local passenger transportation similar to street-
railway service;
            3.   Vehicles owned or leased by government agencies or political
subdivisions.
      MOTOR CARRIER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4923.01
(R.C. § 4513.50)
   (B)   Safety inspection decals.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, on and after
July 1, 2001, no person shall operate a bus, nor shall any person being the
owner of a bus or having supervisory responsibility for a bus, permit the
operation of any bus unless the bus displays a valid, current safety inspection
decal issued by the State Highway Patrol under R.C. § 4513.52.
      (2)   For the purpose of complying with the requirements of this section
and R.C. § 4513.52, the owner or other operator of a bus may drive the bus
directly to an inspection site conducted by the State Highway Patrol and
directly back to the person’s place of business without a valid registration
and without displaying a safety inspection decal, provided that no passengers
may occupy the bus during such operation.
(R.C. § 4513.51(A), (B))
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4513.51(D))
§ 74.39 AIR BAGS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AIR BAG. Has the same meaning as in 49 C.F.R. § 579.4, as amended.
      COUNTERFEIT AIR BAG. An air bag displaying a mark identical or similar to
the genuine mark of a motor vehicle manufacturer, without the authorization of
the motor vehicle manufacturer.
      NONFUNCTIONAL AIR BAG. Any of the following:
         (a)   A replacement air bag that has been previously deployed or
damaged;
         (b)   A replacement air bag that has an electrical fault that is
detected by the air bag diagnostic system of a vehicle after the air bag is
installed;
         (c)   A counterfeit air bag, air bag cover, or some other object that
is installed in a vehicle to deceive an owner or operator of the vehicle into
believing that a functional air bag has been installed.
   (B)   No person shall install or reinstall in any motor vehicle a
counterfeit or nonfunctional air bag or any object intended to fulfill the
function of an air bag other than an air bag that was designed in conformance
with or that is regulated by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208
for the make, model, and model year of the vehicle, knowing that the object is
not in accordance with that standard.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly manufacture, import, sell, or offer for sale
any of the following:
      (1)   A counterfeit air bag;
      (2)   A nonfunctional air bag;
      (3)   Any other object that is intended to be installed in a motor
vehicle to fulfill the function of an air bag and that is not in conformance
with Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208 for the make, model, and
model year of the vehicle in which the object is intended to be installed.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly sell, install, or reinstall a device in a
motor vehicle that causes the diagnostic system of a vehicle to inaccurately
indicate that the vehicle is equipped with a functional air bag.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) or (D) of this section is guilty
of improper replacement of a motor vehicle air bag, a misdemeanor of the first
degree on a first offense. On each subsequent offense, or if the violation
results in serious physical harm to an individual, the person is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Each manufacture, importation, installation, reinstallation, sale,
or offer for sale in violation of this section shall constitute a separate and
distinct violation.
(R.C. § 4549.20)
LOADS
§ 74.50 PERMIT REQUIRED TO EXCEED LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The municipality, with respect to highways under their
jurisdiction, upon application in writing, shall issue a special regional heavy
hauling permit authorizing the applicant to operate or move a vehicle or
combination of vehicles as follows:
         (a)   At a size or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the maximum
specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with
R.C. §§ 4513.01 to 4513.37.
         (b)   Upon any highway under the jurisdiction of municipality except
those highways with a condition insufficient to bear the weight of the vehicle
or combination of vehicles as stated in the application.
         (c)   Issuance of a special regional heavy hauling permit is subject
to the payment of a fee established by the municipality in accordance with this
section.
      (2)   In circumstances where a person is not eligible to receive a permit
under division (A)(1) of this section, the municipality, with respect to
highways under its jurisdiction, upon application in writing and for good cause
shown, may issue a special permit in writing authorizing the applicant to
operate or move a vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight of
vehicle or load exceeding the maximum specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with R.C. §§ 4513.01 through 4513.37,
upon any highway under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   (1)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 715.22 and 723.01, the holder of a
permit issued by the Ohio Director of Transportation under R.C. § 4513.34 may
move the vehicle or combination of vehicles described in the permit on any
highway that is a part of the state highway system when the movement is partly
within and partly without the corporate limits of the municipality. No local
authority shall require any other permit or license or charge any license fee
or other charge against the holder of a permit for the movement of a vehicle or
combination of vehicles on any highway which is a part of the state highway
system. The Ohio Director of Transportation shall not require the holder of a
permit issued by the municipality to obtain a special permit for the movement
of vehicles or combination of vehicles on highways within the jurisdiction of
the municipality.
      (2)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4513.34(B)(3), permits may be issued
for any period of time not to exceed one year, as the local authority in its
discretion determines advisable or for the duration of any public construction
project.
   (C)   (1)   The application for a permit issued under this section shall be
in the form that the municipality prescribes. The municipality may prescribe a
permit fee to be imposed and collected when any permit described in this
section is issued. The permit fee may be in an amount sufficient to reimburse
the municipality for the administrative costs incurred in issuing the permit,
and also to cover the cost of normal and expected damage caused to the roadway
or a street or highway structure as the result of the operation of the
nonconforming vehicle or combination of vehicles.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the
Director under R.C. § 4513.34, milk transported in bulk by vehicle is deemed a
nondivisible load.
      (3)   For purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the Director
under R.C. § 4513.34, three or fewer aluminum coils, transported by a vehicle,
are deemed a nondivisible load. The Director shall adopt rules establishing
requirements for an aluminum coil permit that are substantially similar to the
requirements for a steel coil permit under O.A.C. Chapter 5501:2-1.
   (D)   The municipality shall issue a special regional heavy hauling permit
under division (A)(1) of this section upon application and payment of the
applicable fee. However, the municipality may issue or withhold a special
permit specified in division (A)(2) of this section. If a permit is to be
issued, the municipality may limit or prescribe conditions of operation for the
vehicle and may require the posting of a bond or other security conditioned
upon the sufficiency of the permit fee to compensate for damage caused to the
roadway or a street or highway structure. In addition, the municipality, as a
condition of issuance of an overweight permit, may require the applicant to
develop and enter into a mutual agreement with the municipality to compensate
for or to repair excess damage caused to the roadway by travel under the
permit.
   (E)   Every permit issued under this section shall be carried in the vehicle
or combination of vehicles to which it refers and shall be open to inspection
by any police officer or authorized agent of any authority granting the permit.
No person shall violate any of the terms of a permit.
   (F)   The Director of Transportation may debar an applicant from applying
for a special permit under this section upon a finding based on a reasonable
belief that the applicant has done any of the actions specified in R.C. §
4513.34(F).
   (G)   Notice and procedures for debarment shall be as provided in R.C. §
4513.34(G).
   (H)   (1)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to gross load limits.
      (2)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to axle load by more than 2,000 pounds per axle or group of
axles.
      (3)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to an approved route except upon order of a law enforcement
officer or authorized agent of the issuing authority.
   (I)   A permit issued by the municipality under this section for the
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles is valid for the purposes of
the vehicle operation in accordance with the conditions and limitations
specified on the permit. Such a permit is voidable by law enforcement only for
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles in violation of the weight,
dimension, or route provisions of the permit. However, a permit is not voidable
for operation in violation of a route provision of a permit if the operation is
upon the order of a law enforcement officer.
(R.C. § 4513.34)
   (J)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
Statutory reference:
   Overweight or oversized vehicles, state permit regulations, see O.A.C.
Chapter 5501:2-1
§ 74.51 LIMITATION OF LOAD EXTENSION ON LEFT SIDE OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on a highway with any load
carried on the vehicle which extends more than six inches beyond the line of
the fenders on the vehicle’s left side.
(R.C. § 4513.30)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)    
§ 74.52 ALL LOADS SHALL BE PROPERLY SECURED.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless the vehicle
is so constructed, loaded, or covered as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, sifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand
or other substances may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or
water or other substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or
maintaining the roadway.
   (B)   Except for a farm vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or
agricultural production materials or a rubbish vehicle in the process of
acquiring its load, no vehicle loaded with garbage, swill, cans, bottles, waste
paper, ashes, refuse, trash, rubbish, waste, wire, paper, cartons, boxes,
glass, solid waste, or any other material of an unsanitary nature that is
susceptible to blowing or bouncing from a moving vehicle shall be driven or
moved on any highway unless the load is covered with a sufficient cover to
prevent the load or any part of the load from spilling onto the highway.
(R.C. § 4513.31)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.53 TOWING REQUIREMENTS; EXCEPTION TO SIZE AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   When one vehicle is towing another vehicle, the drawbar or other
connection shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight towed
thereby, and the drawbar or other connection shall not exceed 15 feet from one
vehicle to the other, except the connection between any two vehicles
transporting poles, pipe, machinery, or other objects of structural nature
which cannot readily be dismembered.
      (2)   When one vehicle is towing another and the connection consists only
of a chain, rope, or cable, there shall be displayed upon such connection a
white flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square.   
      (3)   In addition to such drawbar or other connection, each trailer and
each semitrailer which is not connected to a commercial tractor by means of a
fifth wheel shall be coupled with stay chains or cables to the vehicle by which
it is being drawn. These chains or cables shall be of sufficient size and
strength to prevent the towed vehicle’s parting from the drawing vehicle in
case the drawbar or other connection should break or become disengaged. In case
of a loaded pole trailer, the connecting pole to the drawing vehicle shall be
coupled to the drawing vehicle with stay chains or cables of sufficient size
and strength to prevent the towed vehicle’s parting from the drawing vehicle.
      (4)   Every trailer or semitrailer, except pole and cable trailers and
pole and cable dollies operated by a public utility as defined in R.C. §
5727.01, shall be equipped with a coupling device which shall be so designed
and constructed that the trailer will follow substantially in the path of the
vehicle drawing it, without whipping or swerving from side to side. Vehicles
used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production materials
between a local place of storage and supply and the farm, when drawn or towed
on a street or highway at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less, and vehicles
designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage
and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or
highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per
hour or less, shall have a drawbar or other connection, including the hitch
mounted on the towing vehicle, which shall be of sufficient strength to pull
all the weight towed thereby. Only one such vehicle used to transport
agricultural produce or agricultural production materials as provided in this
section may be towed or drawn at one time except as follows:
         (a)   An agricultural tractor may tow or draw more than one such
vehicle;
         (b)   A pickup truck or straight truck designed by the manufacturer to
carry a load of not less than one-half ton and not more than two tons may tow
or draw not more than two such vehicles that are being used to transport
agricultural produce from the farm to a local place of storage. No vehicle
being so towed by such a pickup truck or straight truck shall be considered to
be a motor vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.32)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
   (C)   Exception to size and weight restrictions.
      (1)   The size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter
5577 do not apply to a any of the following:
         (a)   A person who is engaged in the initial towing or removal of a
wrecked or disabled motor vehicle from the site of an emergency on a public
highway where the vehicle became wrecked or disabled to the nearest site where
the vehicle can be brought into conformance with the requirements of this
chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577, to the nearest storage facility, or to the
nearest qualified repair facility;
         (b)   A person who is en route to the site of an emergency on a public
highway to remove a wrecked or disabled motor vehicle;
         (c)   A person who is returning from delivering a wrecked or disabled
motor vehicle to a site, storage facility, or repair facility as specified in
division (C)(1)(a) of this section.
      (2)   Any subsequent towing of a wrecked or disabled vehicle shall comply
with the size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577.
      (3)   No court shall impose any penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99 or
the civil liability established in R.C. § 5577.12 upon a person who is
operating a vehicle in the manner described in division (C)(1) of this section.
(R.C. § 5577.15)
§ 74.54 WEIGHING OF VEHICLE; REMOVAL OF EXCESS LOAD.
   (A)   Any police officer having reason to believe that the weight of a
vehicle and its load is unlawful may require the driver of the vehicle to stop
and submit to a weighing of it by means of a compact, self-contained, portable,
sealed scale specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of vehicles on
highways; a sealed scale permanently installed in a fixed location, having a
load-receiving element specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of
highway vehicles; a sealed scale, permanently installed in a fixed location,
having a load-receiving element specially adapted to determining the combined
load of all wheels on a single axle or on successive axles of a highway
vehicle; or a sealed scale adapted to weighing highway vehicles, loaded or
unloaded.
   (B)   The driver of the vehicle shall, if necessary, be directed to proceed
to the nearest available sealed scales to accomplish the weighing, provided the
scales are within three miles of the point where the vehicle is stopped.
   (C)   Any vehicle stopped in accordance with this section may be held by the
police officer for a reasonable time only to accomplish the weighing as
prescribed by this section.
   (D)   All scales used in determining the lawful weight of a vehicle and its
load shall be annually compared by a municipal, county or state sealer with the
state standards or standards approved by the state, and the scales shall not be
sealed if they do not conform to the state standards or standards approved by
the state.
   (E)   At each end of a permanently installed scale, there shall be a
straight approach in the same plane as the platform, of sufficient length and
width to insure the level positioning of vehicles during weight determinations.
During determination of weight by compact, self-contained, portable, sealed
scales, specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of vehicles on
highways, they shall always be used on a level terrain of sufficient length and
width to accommodate the entire vehicle being weighed. Such terrain shall be
level, or if not level, it shall be of such elevation that the difference in
elevation between the wheels on any one axle does not exceed two inches and the
difference in elevation between axles being weighed does not exceed one-quarter
inch per foot of the distance between such axles.
   (F)   In all determinations of all weights, except gross weight, by compact,
self-contained, portable, sealed scales, specially adapted to determining the
wheel loads of vehicles on highways, all successive axles, 12 feet or less
apart, shall be weighed simultaneously by placing one such scale under the
outside wheel of each such axle. In determinations of gross weight by the use
of compact, self- contained, portable, sealed scales, specially adapted to
determining the wheel loads of vehicles on highways, all axles shall be weighed
simultaneously by placing one such scale under the outside wheel of each axle.
   (G)   Whenever an officer, upon weighing a vehicle and load, determines that
the weight is unlawful, he or she may require the driver to stop the vehicle in
a suitable place and remain standing until such portion of the load is removed
as is necessary to reduce the weight of the vehicle to the limit permitted
under R.C. §§ 5577.01 through 5577.14 and this chapter.
(R.C. § 4513.33)
Statutory reference:
   Alteration of weight limits, approval of Director required, see R.C. §
4513.33
§ 74.55 OPERATION OF VEHICLE EXCEEDING WEIGHT LIMITS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall operate or move a traction engine, steam roller, or
other vehicle, load, object or structure, whether propelled by muscular or
motor power, over or upon the improved public streets, highways, bridges, or
culverts in this municipality, that weighs in excess of the weights prescribed
in this subchapter or R.C. §§ 5577.01 et seq., unless the person has been
issued a permit under R.C. § 4513.34, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. The prohibition in this section applies regardless of whether the
weight is moved upon wheels, rollers, or otherwise. Any weight determination
shall include the weight of the vehicle, object, structure, contrivance, and
load.
(R.C. § 5577.02)
   (B)   Whoever violates the weight provisions of this section shall be fined
$80 for the first 2,000 pounds, or fraction thereof, of overload; for overloads
in excess of 2,000 pounds, but not in excess of 5,000 pounds, such person shall
be fined $100, and in addition thereto $1 per 100 pounds of overload; for
overloads in excess of 5,000 pounds but not in excess of 10,000 pounds, such
person shall be fined $130, and in addition thereto $2 per 100 pounds of
overload, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both. For all overloads in
excess of 10,000 pounds, such person shall be fined $160, and in addition
thereto $3 per 100 pounds of overload, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or
both. Whoever violates the weight provisions of vehicle and load relating to
gross load limits shall be fined not less than $100. No penalty prescribed in
this division (B)(2) shall be imposed on any vehicle combination if the
overload on any one axle does not exceed 1,000 pounds, and if the immediately
preceding or following axle, excepting the front axle of the vehicle
combination, is underloaded by the same or greater amount. For purposes of this
division (B)(2), two axles on one vehicle less than eight feet apart shall be
considered as one axle.
(R.C. § 5577.99(A))
§ 74.56 LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   Weight of load; width of tire. No person, firm or corporation shall
transport over the improved public streets, alleys, intercounty highways, state
highways, bridges or culverts in this municipality, in any vehicle propelled by
muscular, motor or other power, any burden, including weight of vehicle and
load, greater than the following:
      (1)   (a)   In vehicles having metal tires three inches or less in width,
a load of 500 pounds for each inch of the total width of the tire on all
wheels;
         (b)   When the tires on such vehicles exceed three inches in width, an
additional load of 800 pounds shall be permitted for each inch by which the
total width of the tires on all wheels exceeds 12 inches.
      (2)   In vehicles having tires of rubber or other similar substance, for
each inch of the total width of tires on all wheels, as follows:
 
Tire Width  Load Limit
(in inches) (in pounds)
3.5         450
6 and over  650
 
      (3)   The total width of tires on all wheels shall be, in the case of
solid tires of rubber or other similar substance, the actual width in inches of
all such tires between the flanges at the base of the tires, but in no event
shall that portion of tire coming in contact with the road surface be less than
two-thirds the width so measured between the flanges.
      (4)   In the case of pneumatic tires, of rubber or other similar
substance, the total width of tires on all wheels shall be the actual width of
all such tires, measured at the widest portion thereof when inflated and not
bearing a load.
      (5)   In no event shall the load, including the proportionate weight of
vehicle that can be concentrated on any wheel, exceed 650 pounds to each inch
in width of the tread as defined in this division (A) for solid tires, or each
inch in the actual diameter of pneumatic tires measured when inflated and not
bearing a load.
(R.C. § 5577.03)
   (B)   Vehicles with pneumatic tires, load limits.
      (1)   The maximum wheel load of any one wheel of any vehicle, load,
object or structure operated or moved upon improved public highways, streets,
bridges or culverts shall not exceed 650 pounds per inch width of pneumatic
tire, measured as prescribed by division (A) of this section.
      (2)   The weight of the vehicle and load imposed upon a road surface that
is part of the interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires shall not
exceed any of the following weight limitations:
         (a)   On any one axle, 20,000 pounds;
         (b)   On any tandem axle, 34,000 pounds;
         (c)   On any two or more consecutive axles, the maximum weight as
determined by application of the formula provided in division (B)(3) of this
section.
      (3)   (a)   For purposes of division (B)(2)(c) of this section, the
maximum gross weight on any two or more consecutive axles shall be determined
by application of the following formula: W = 500[(LN/–1) + 12N + 36]
         (b)   In this formula, W equals the overall gross weight on any group
of two or more consecutive axles to the nearest 500 pounds, L equals the
distance in rounded whole feet between the extreme of any group of two or more
consecutive axles, and N equals the number of axles in the group under
consideration. However, two consecutive sets of tandem axles may carry a gross
load of 34,000 pounds each, provided the overall distance between the first and
last axles of such consecutive sets of tandem axles is 36 feet or more.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (B)(9) of this section, the weight
of vehicle and load imposed upon a road surface that is not part of the
interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires shall not exceed any of the
following weight limitations:
         (a)   On any one axle, 20,000 pounds.
         (b)   On any two successive axles:
            1.   Spaced four feet or less apart, and weighed simultaneously,
24,000 pounds;
            2.   Spaced more than four feet apart, and weighed simultaneously,
34,000 pounds, plus 1,000 pounds per foot or fraction thereof, over four feet,
not to exceed 40,000 pounds.
         (c)   On any three successive load-bearing axles designed to equalize
the load between such axles and spaced so that each such axle of the three-axle
group is more than four feet from the next axle in the three-axle group and so
that the spacing between the first axle and the third axle in the three-axle
group is no more than nine feet, and with such load-bearing three-axle group
weighed simultaneously as a unit:
            1.   A weight of 48,000 pounds, with the total weight of the
vehicle and load not exceeding 38,000 pounds plus an additional 900 pounds for
each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of the
vehicle;
            2.   As an alternative to division (B)(4)(c)1. of this section,
42,500 pounds, if part of a six-axle vehicle combination with at least 20 feet
of spacing between the front axle and rearmost axle, with the total weight of
the vehicle and load not exceeding 54,000 pounds plus an additional 600 pounds
per each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of the
vehicle.
         (d)   The total weight of the vehicle and load utilizing any
combination of axles, other than as provided for three-axle groups in division
(B)(4) of this section, shall not exceed 38,000 pounds plus an additional 900
pounds for each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of
the vehicle.
      (5)   Notwithstanding divisions (B)(2) and (B)(4) of this section, the
maximum overall gross weight of a vehicle and load imposed upon the road
surface shall not exceed 80,000 pounds.
      (6)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, when a vehicle is
towing another vehicle, such drawbar or other connection shall be of a length
such as will limit the spacing between nearest axles of the respective vehicles
to a distance not in excess of 12.5 feet.
      (7)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section, TANDEM AXLE means two
or more consecutive axles whose centers may be included between parallel
transverse vertical planes spaced more than 40 inches but not more than 96
inches apart, extending across the full width of the vehicle.
      (8)   This division (B) does not apply to passenger bus type vehicles
operated by a regional transit authority pursuant to R.C. §§ 306.30 through
306.54.
      (9)   Either division (B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section applies to the
weight of a vehicle and its load imposed upon any road surface that is not a
part of the interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires. As between
divisions (B)(2) and (B)(4) of this section, only the division that yields the
highest total gross vehicle weight limit shall be applied to any such vehicle.
Once that division has been determined, only the limits contained in the
subdivisions of that division shall apply to that vehicle.
(R.C. § 5577.04)
   (C)   Axle and wheel load, gross weights and towing connection length for
solid rubber tires.
      (1)   No vehicle, load, object or structure having a maximum axle load
greater than 16,000 pounds when such vehicle is equipped with solid rubber
tires shall be operated or moved upon the improved public highways, streets,
bridges or culverts. The maximum wheel load of any one wheel of such vehicle
shall not exceed 650 pounds per inch width of tire, measured as prescribed by
division (A) of this section, nor shall any solid tire or rubber or other
resilient material, on any wheel of any such vehicle, be less than one inch
thick when measure from the top of the flanges of the tire channel.
      (2)   The weight of vehicle and load imposed upon the road surface by any
two successive axles, spaces four feet or less apart, shall not exceed 19,000
pounds for solid tires; or by any two successive axles spaced more than four
feet but less than eight feet apart, shall not exceed 24,000 pounds for solid
tires; or by any two successive axles, spaced eight feet or more apart, shall
not exceed 28,000 pounds for solid tires; nor shall the total weight of vehicle
and load exceed, for solid rubber tires, 28,000 pounds plus an additional 600
pounds for each foot or fraction thereof of spacing between the front axle and
the rear-most axle of the vehicle; nor shall the weight of the vehicle and load
imposed upon the road surface by any vehicle equipped with solid rubber tires
exceed 80% of the permissible weight of vehicle and load as provided for
pneumatic tires.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, when a vehicle is
towing another vehicle, such drawbar or other connection shall be of a length
such as will limit the spacing between the nearest axles of the respective
vehicles to a distance not in excess of 12.5 feet. If the provisions of this
division (C) are held to exceed the weight limitations or other provisions set
forth in the “Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1958”, 72 Stat. 902, 23 U.S.C. § 127,
this division (C) shall become null and void to the extent of such
inconsistency.
(R.C. § 5577.041)
   (D)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second or subsequent offense, such person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 5577.99(C))
      (2)   Whoever violates the weight provisions of this section shall be
punished as set forth in §
74.55(B).
   (E)   Modification of load limits. The load limits established in this
section may be modified or waived upon special permission granted as provided
in R.C. § 4513.34 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
§ 74.57 MAXIMUM WIDTH, HEIGHT, AND LENGTH.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be operated upon the public highways, streets,
bridges, and culverts within this municipality whose dimensions exceed those
specified in this section.
   (B)   No such vehicle shall have a width:
      (1)   In excess of 104 inches for passenger bus type vehicles operated
exclusively within the municipality.
      (2)   In excess of 102 inches, excluding such safety devices as are
required by law, for passenger bus type vehicles operated over freeways, and
such other state roads with minimum pavement widths of 22 feet, except those
roads or portions of roads over which operation of 102-inch buses is prohibited
by order of the Director of Transportation.
      (3)   In excess of 132 inches for traction engines.
      (4)   In excess of 102 inches for recreational vehicles, excluding safety
devices and retracted awnings and other appurtenances of six inches or less in
width and except that the Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch
recreational vehicles on designated state highways or portions of highways.
      (5)   In excess of 102 inches, including load, for all other vehicles,
except that the Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch vehicles on
such state highways or portions of state highways as the Director designates.
   (C)   No such vehicle shall have a length:
      (1)   In excess of 66 feet for passenger bus type vehicles and
articulated passenger bus type vehicles operated by a regional transit
authority pursuant to R.C. §§ 306.30 through 306.54.
      (2)   In excess of 45 feet for all other passenger bus type vehicles.
      (3)   In excess of 53 feet for any semitrailer when operated in a
commercial tractor- semitrailer combination, with or without load, except that
the Director may prohibit the operation of any such commercial tractor-
semitrailer combination on such state highways or portions of state highways as
the Director designates.
      (4)   In excess of 28.5 feet for any semitrailer or trailer when operated
in a commercial tractor-semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor-semitrailer-
semitrailer combination, except that the Director may prohibit the operation of
any such commercial tractor-semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor-
semitrailer-semitrailer combination on such state highways or portions of state
highways as the Director designates.
      (5)   (a)   In excess of 97 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle
transporter combinations and drive-away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle
transporter combinations when operated on any interstate, United States route,
or state route, including reasonable access travel on all other roadways for a
distance not to exceed one road mile from any interstate, United States route,
or state route, not to exceed three saddlemounted vehicles, but which may
include one fullmount;
         (b)   In excess of 75 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle
transporter combinations and drive-away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle
transporter combinations when operated on any roadway not designated as an
interstate, United States route, or state route, not to exceed three
saddlemounted vehicles, but which may include one fullmount.
      (6)   In excess of 65 feet for any other combination of vehicles coupled
together, with or without load, except as provided in division (C)(3) and (C)
(4), and in division (E) below.
      (7)   In excess of 45 feet for recreational vehicles.
      (8)   In excess of 50 feet for all other vehicles, except trailers and
semitrailers, with or without load.
   (D)   No such vehicle shall have a height in excess of 13.5 feet, with or
without load.
   (E)   An automobile transporter or boat transporter shall be allowed a
length of 65 feet, and a stinger-steered automobile transporter or stinger-
steered boat transporter shall be allowed a length of 75 feet, except that the
load thereon may extend no more than four feet beyond the rear of such vehicles
and may extend no more than three feet beyond the front of such vehicles, and
except further that the Director may prohibit the operation of a stinger-
steered automobile transporter, stinger-steered boat transporter, or a B-train
assembly on any state highway or portion of any state highway that the Director
designates.
   (F)   (1)   The widths prescribed in division (B) of this section shall not
include side mirrors, turn signal lamps, marker lamps, handholds for cab entry
and egress, flexible fender extensions, mud flaps, splash and spray suppressant
devices, and load-induced tire bulge.
      (2)   The widths prescribed in division (B)(5) of this section shall not
include automatic covering devices, tarp and tarp hardware, and tiedown
assemblies, provided these safety devices do not extend more than three inches
from either side of the vehicle.
      (3)   The lengths prescribed in divisions (C)(2) through (C)(7) shall not
include safety devices, bumpers attached to the front or rear of such bus or
combination, non-property carrying devices or components that do not extend
more than 24 inches beyond the rear of the vehicle and are needed for loading
or unloading, B-train assembly used between the first and second semitrailer of
a commercial tractor-semitrailer-semitrailer combination, energy conservation
devices as provided in any regulations adopted by the Secretary of the United
States Department of Transportation, or any noncargo-carrying refrigerator
equipment attached to the front of trailers and semitrailers. In special cases,
vehicles that dimensions exceed those prescribed by this section may operate in
accordance with rules adopted by the Director.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to fire engines, fire trucks, or
other vehicles or apparatus belonging to the municipality or to the volunteer
fire department thereof or used by such department in the discharge of its
functions. This section does not apply to vehicles and pole trailers used in
the transportation of wooden and metal poles, nor to the transportation of
pipes or well-drilling equipment, nor to farm machinery and equipment.
      (2)   The owner or operator of any vehicle, machinery, or equipment not
specifically enumerated in this section but the dimensions of which exceed the
dimensions provided by this section, when operating the same on the highways
and streets of the municipality, shall comply with the rules of the Director
governing such movement. Any person adversely affected shall have the same
right of appeal as provided in R.C. Chapter 119.
      (3)   This section does not require the municipality or any railroad or
other private corporation to provide sufficient vertical clearance to permit
the operation of such vehicle, or to make any changes in or about existing
structures now crossing streets, roads, and other public thoroughfares.
   (H)   As used in this section, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 4501.01.
(R.C. § 5577.05)
   (I)   No person shall violate any rule or regulation promulgated by the
Director of Transportation in accordance with R.C. § 5577.05.
(R.C. § 5577.06)
   (J)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second or subsequent offense, such person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 5577.99(C))
§ 74.58 STATEMENT OF GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT.
   (A)   No person shall issue or aid in issuing any bill of lading or other
document of like nature in lieu thereof, which bill or document is to accompany
a shipment of goods or property by truck, trailer, semitrailer, commercial
tractor, or any other commercial vehicle used for the transportation of
property, the gross weight of which, with load, exceeds three tons, with intent
to defraud by misrepresentation thereon the weight of such goods of property to
be so transported.
   (B)   Any driver or operator of a commercial car, trailer or semitrailer may
obtain from any person, firm, partnership, corporation or association,
including the owner, lessee, or operator of such commercial car, trailer or
semitrailer, owning and operating sealed scales in this state, a written
“statement of gross vehicle weight” showing the gross weight of the vehicle
including the cargo on the vehicle, the name and address of the person issuing
the statement, and the date and place where the vehicle and its cargo were
weighed. The driver or operator of the commercial car, trailer or semitrailer
shall retain such statement of gross vehicle weight on his or her person, and
any law enforcement officer may request that such driver or operator exhibit it
to him or her. If, upon examining the statement of gross vehicle weight, the
law enforcement officer has reason to believe that the information contained
therein is correct in every respect, he or she shall indorse it with his or her
name and the date and place where it was exhibited to him or her. The law
enforcement officer may then permit such driver or operator to proceed without
weighing by a law enforcement officer. No person shall willfully issue a
written statement of gross vehicle weight and knowingly give any false
information in such statement.
(R.C. § 5577.10)
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be fined not more
than $5,000 or imprisoned for not less than 30 days nor more than six months,
or both.
(R.C. § 5577.99(D))
§ 74.59 WHEEL PROTECTORS REQUIRED ON HEAVY COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall drive or operate, or cause to be driven or operated,
any commercial car, trailer, or semitrailer, used for the transportation of
goods or property, the gross weight of which, with load, exceeds three tons,
upon the public highways, streets, bridges, and culverts within the
municipality, unless such vehicle is equipped with suitable metal protectors or
substantial flexible flaps on the rearmost wheels of such vehicle or
combination of vehicles to prevent, as far as practicable, the wheels from
throwing dirt, water, or other materials on the windshields of following
vehicles. Such protectors or flaps shall have a ground clearance of not more
than one-third of the distance from the center of the rearmost axle to the
center of the flaps under any conditions of loading of the vehicle, and they
shall be at least as wide as the tires they are protecting. If the vehicle is
so designed and constructed that such requirements are accomplished by means of
fenders, body construction, or other means of enclosure, then no such
protectors or flaps are required. Rear wheels not covered at the top by
fenders, bodies, or other parts of the vehicle shall be covered at the top by
protective means extending at least to the center line of the rearmost axle.
(R.C. § 5577.11)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $25.
(R.C. § 5577.99(E))
§ 74.60 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES; PROSECUTION; APPLICATION OF MONIES.
   Any person violating any law relating to or regulating the use of the
improved public roads shall be liable for all damage resulting to any such
street, highway, bridge or culvert by reason of such violation. In case of any
injury to such street, highway, bridge or culvert, such damages shall be
collected by civil action for recovery of such damages brought by the proper
authorities of the municipality. All damages collected under this section shall
be paid into the treasury of the municipality and credited to any fund for the
repairs of streets, highways, roads, bridges or culverts.
(R.C. § 5577.12)
§ 74.61 WEIGHT EXCEPTIONS FOR CERTAIN VEHICLES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      COAL TRUCK. Means a truck transporting coal from the site where it is
mined when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      FARM COMMODITIES. Includes livestock, bulk milk, corn, soybeans, tobacco
and wheat.
rting farm commodities, from the place of production to the first point of
delivery where the commodities are weighed and title to the commodities is
transferred;
         (c)   A log truck transporting timber, from the site of its cutting to
the first point of delivery where the timber is transferred;
         (d)   A solid waste haul vehicle hauling solid waste, from the place
of production to the first point of delivery where the solid waste is disposed
of or title to the solid waste is transferred.
      (2)   In addition, if any of the vehicles listed in division (B)(1) of
this section and operated under the conditions described in that division does
not exceed by more than 7.5% the gross vehicle weight provisions of R.C. §§
5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
does not exceed the wheel or axle-load limits of those sections by more than
7.5%, no penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, for a wheel or axle overload shall be imposed.
   (C)   If any of the vehicles listed in division (B)(1) of this section and
operated under the conditions described in that division exceeds the weight
provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, by more than the percentage allowance of either divisions
(B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section, both of the following apply without regard to
the allowance provided by this division (B) of this section:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by R.C. § 5577.12, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   (1)   Division (B) of this section does not apply to the operation of
a farm truck, log truck, or farm machinery transporting farm commodities during
the months of February and March.
      (2)   Regardless of when the operation occurs, division (B) of this
section does not apply to the operation of a vehicle on either of the
following:
         (a)   A highway that is part of the interstate system;
         (b)   A highway, road, or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under R.C. § 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09, or 5591.42,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.042)
   (E)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the following vehicles under the described
conditions may exceed by no more than 7.5% the weight provisions of R.C. §§
5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and no
penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, shall be imposed:
      (1)   A surface mining truck transporting minerals from the place where
the minerals are loaded to any of the following:
         (a)   The construction site where the minerals are discharged;
         (b)   The place where title to the minerals is transferred;
         (c)   The place of processing.
      (2)   A vehicle transporting hot mix asphalt material from the place
where the material is first mixed to the paving site where the material is
discharged;
      (3)   A vehicle transporting concrete from the place where the material
is first mixed to the site where the material is discharged;
      (4)   A vehicle transporting manure, turf, sod, or silage from the site
where the material is first produced to the first place of delivery;
      (5)   A vehicle transporting chips, sawdust, mulch, bark, pulpwood,
biomass, or firewood from the site where the product is first produced or
harvested to first point where the product is transferred.
   (F)   In addition, if any of the vehicles listed in division (E) of this
section and operated under the conditions described in that division do not
exceed by more than 7.5% the gross vehicle weight provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01
to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and do not
exceed the wheel or axle-load limits of those sections by more than 7.5%, no
penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, for a wheel or axle overload shall be imposed.
   (G)   If any of the vehicles listed in division (E) of this section and
operated under the conditions described in that division exceed the weight
provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, by more than the percentage allowance of either divisions
(E) or (F) of this section, both of the following apply without regard to the
allowance provided by division (E) or (F) of this section:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by R.C. § 5577.12, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (H)   Divisions (E) and (F) of this section do not apply to the operation of
a vehicle listed in division (E) of this section on either of the following:
      (1)   A highway that is part of the interstate system;
      (2)   A highway, road, or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under R.C. § 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09, or 5591.42,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.043)
   (I)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, a vehicle fueled solely by compressed natural
gas or liquid natural gas or powered primarily by means of an electric battery
may exceed by not more than 2,000 pounds the gross vehicle weight provisions of
R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, or the axle load limits of those sections.
   (J)   If a vehicle described in division (I) of this section exceeds the
weight provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, by more than the allowance provided for in
division (I) of this section, both of the following apply:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by R.C. § 5577.12, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (K)   Division (I) of this section does not apply to the operation of a
vehicle on a highway, road, or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under R.C. § 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09, or 5591.42,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.044)
   (L)   Fire engine weight exemptions. 
      (1)   As used in this division (L), FIRE ENGINE means a fire engine, fire
truck, or other vehicle or apparatus belonging to or used by any municipal,
township, or volunteer fire department, while in the discharge of its
functions.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, a person may do both of the following without a
written permit issued under R.C. § 4513.34, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance:
         (a)   Operate a two-axle fire engine, with a front axle maximum weight
of 24,000 pounds and a rear axle maximum weight of 33,500 pounds and a minimum
wheelbase of 15 feet, on all roadways in the state;
         (b)   Operate a fire engine with a maximum gross vehicle weight of
86,000 pounds on the interstate highway system and within one road mile of an
interstate highway system entrance or exit ramp.
      (3)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 4513.34, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, for any fire engine that requires a permit, the Ohio
Director of Transportation or local authority shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Issue the permit at no cost to the municipal, township, or
volunteer fire department;
         (b)   Issue a permit that expires five years after the date of
issuance.
(R.C. § 5577.045)
CHAPTER 75: BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
75.01   Bicycles; application of Title VII
   
75.02   Operation of motorized bicycle
   
75.03   Electric bicycles
   
75.04   Rules for bicycles, motorcycles, and snowmobiles
   
75.05   Prohibition against attaching bicycles and sleds to vehicles
   
75.06   Riding bicycles; motorcycles abreast
   
75.07   Equipment of bicycles
Snowmobiles, Off-Highway Motorcycles, and All-Purpose Vehicles
   
75.25   Definitions
   
75.26   Equipment
   
75.27   Code application; prohibited operation
   
75.28   Permitted operation
   
75.29   Licensing requirements of operator
   
75.30   Maintenance of vehicles for hire
   
75.31   Accident reports
   
75.32   Impounding of vehicle
   
75.33   Local control within police power
   
75.34   Registration of vehicles
   
75.35   Certificate of title; prohibitions
Cross-reference:
   Operation restricted for mini-trucks and low-speed, under-speed, or utility
vehicles, see §
73.16
Statutory reference:
   Bicycle regulations to be consistent with state law, see R.C. § 4511.07(A)
(8)
   Protective eye devices required for motorcycle operators and passengers;
helmets required for persons under 18 years of age, see O.A.C. § 4501-17-01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 75.01 BICYCLES; APPLICATION OF TITLE VII.
   (A)   The provisions of this title that are applicable to bicycles and
electric bicycles apply whenever a bicycle or electric bicycle is operated upon
any highway or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, a bicycle operator
or electric bicycle operator who violates any provisions of this title
described in division (A) of this section that is applicable to bicycles or
electric bicycles may be issued a ticket, citation, or summons by a law
enforcement officer for the violation in the same manner as the operator of a
motor vehicle would be cited for the same violation. A person who commits any
such violation while operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not have any
points assessed against the person’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or probationary license under R.C. §
4510.036.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, in the case of a
violation of any provision of this title described in division (A) of this
section by a bicycle operator, electric bicycle operator, or motor vehicle
operator when the trier of fact finds that the violation by the motor vehicle
operator endangered the lives of bicycle riders or electric bicycle riders at
the time of the violation, the court, notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio
Revised Code to the contrary, may require the bicycle operator, electric
bicycle operator, or motor vehicle operator to take and successfully complete a
bicycling skills course approved by the court in addition to or in lieu of any
penalty otherwise prescribed by this Traffic Code or the Ohio Revised Code for
that violation.
   (D)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to violations of
R.C. § 4511.19, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 4511.52)
§ 75.02 OPERATION OF MOTORIZED BICYCLE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motorized bicycle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking, unless all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The person is 14 or 15 years of age and holds a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license issued after the person has passed the test provided
for in this section, or the person is 16 years of age or older and holds either
a valid commercial driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506 or a
driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid motorized bicycle
license issued after the person has passed the test provided for in this
section, except that if a person is 16 years of age, has a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license and desires a motorized bicycle license, the person
is not required to comply with the testing requirements provided for in this
section.
      (2)   The motorized bicycle is equipped in accordance with the rules
adopted under division (B) of this section and is in proper working order.
      (3)   The person, if under 18 years of age, is wearing a protective
helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened and the
motorized bicycle is equipped with a rearview mirror.
      (4)   The person operates the motorized bicycle when practicable within
three feet of the right edge of the roadway obeying all traffic rules
applicable to vehicles.
   (B)   The Director of Public Safety, subject to R.C. Chapter 119, shall
adopt and promulgate rules concerning protective helmets, the equipment of
motorized bicycles, and the testing and qualifications of persons who do not
hold a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license. The test shall be as near
as practicable to the examination required for a motorcycle operator’s
endorsement under R.C. § 4507.11. The test shall also require the operator to
give an actual demonstration of the operator’s ability to operate and control a
motorized bicycle by driving one under the supervision of an examining officer.
   (C)   Every motorized bicycle license expires on the birthday of the
applicant in the fourth or eighth year after the date it is issued, based on
the period of renewal requested by the applicant. No motorized bicycle license
shall be issued for a period longer than eight years. A person who is 65 years
of age or older may only apply for a motorized bicycle license that expires on
the birthday of the applicant in the fourth year after the date it is issued.
   (D)   No person operating a motorized bicycle shall carry another person
upon the motorized bicycle.
   (E)   The protective helmet and rearview mirror required by division (A)(3)
of this section shall, on and after January 1, 1985, conform with rules adopted
by the Director under division (B) of this section.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A), (D), or (E) of this section is guilty
of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.521)
Statutory reference:
   Suspension of probationary motorized bicycle license by the state, see R.C.
§ 4510.34
§ 75.03 ELECTRIC BICYCLES.
   (A)   (1)   On and after January 1, 2020, manufacturers and distributors of
electric bicycles shall permanently affix a label, in a prominent location, to
each electric bicycle. The label shall specify whether the electric bicycle is
a class 1, class 2, or class 3 electric bicycle, the top assisted speed that
the electric bicycle is capable of reaching, and the motor wattage of the
electric bicycle.
      (2)   No person shall modify an electric bicycle in a manner that changes
the top assisted speed that the electric bicycle is capable of reaching unless
the person also modifies the label required under division (A)(1) of this
section to reflect the modification.
   (B)   (1)   The manufacturer of an electric bicycle shall ensure that the
electric bicycle complies with the equipment and manufacturing requirements for
bicycles established by the consumer product safety commission under 16 C.F.R.
§§ 1512 et seq.
      (2)   The manufacturer shall manufacture all class 1 electric bicycles
and class 3 electric bicycles so that when the rider ceases pedaling the
electric motor ceases to provide assistance. The manufacturer shall manufacture
all class 2 electric bicycles so that when the rider applies the brakes or
releases or activates a switch or similar mechanism the electric motor ceases
to provide assistance.
      (3)   All class 3 electric bicycles shall be equipped with a speedometer
that displays the speed of the electric bicycle in miles per hour.
   (C)   (1)   The operation of a class 1 electric bicycle and a class 2
electric bicycle is permitted on a path set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles or on a shared-use path, unless the county, township, municipal
corporation, other local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60
with control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule prohibits the use
of a class 1 electric bicycle or class 2 electric bicycle on such a path.
      (2)   No person shall operate a class 3 electric bicycle on a path set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles or a shared-use path unless that path
is within or adjacent to a highway or the county, township, municipal
corporation, or local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60 with
control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule authorizes the use of a
class 3 electric bicycle on such a path.
      (3)   No person shall operate a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2
electric bicycle, or a class 3 electric bicycle on a path that is intended to
be used primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or other similar
uses, or any other single track or natural surface trail that has historically
been reserved for non-motorized use, unless the county, township, municipal
corporation, other local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60
with control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule authorizes the use
of a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2 electric bicycle, or a class 3
electric bicycle on such a path.
      (4)   Divisions (C)(2) and (C)(3) of this section do not apply to a law
enforcement officer, or other person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic
laws of the state, using an electric bicycle while in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
   (D)   (1)   No person under 16 years of age shall operate a class 3 electric
bicycle; however, a person under 16 years of age may ride as a passenger on a
class 3 electric bicycle that is designed to accommodate passengers.
      (2)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on a class 3 electric
bicycle unless the person is wearing a protective helmet that meets the
standards established by the Consumer Product Safety Commission or the American
Society for Testing and Materials.
   (E)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever operates
an electric bicycle in a manner that is prohibited under division (C) of this
section and whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   The offenses established under division (E)(1) of this section are
strict liability offenses and strict liability is a culpable mental state for
purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of these offenses as strict
liability offenses shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
(R.C. § 4511.522)
§ 75.04 RULES FOR BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND SNOWMOBILES.
   (A)   As used in this section, SNOWMOBILE has the same meaning as given that
term in R.C. § 4519.01.
   (B)   (1)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall ride
other than upon or astride the permanent and regular seat attached thereto or
carry any other person upon such bicycle or electric bicycle other than upon a
firmly attached and regular seat thereon, and no person shall ride upon a
bicycle or electric bicycle other than upon such a firmly attached and regular
seat.
      (2)   No person operating a motorcycle shall ride other than upon or
astride the permanent and regular seat or saddle attached thereto, or carry any
other person upon such motorcycle other than upon a firmly attached and regular
seat or saddle thereon, and no person shall ride upon a motorcycle other than
upon such a firmly attached and regular seat or saddle.
      (3)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a
saddle other than while sitting astride the saddle, facing forward, with one
leg on each side of the motorcycle.
      (4)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a seat
other than while sitting upon the seat.
      (5)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall carry any
package, bundle, or article that prevents the driver from keeping at least one
hand upon the handlebars.
      (6)   No bicycle, electric bicycle, or motorcycle shall be used to carry
more persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
No motorcycle shall be operated on a highway when the handlebars rise higher
than the shoulders of the operator when the operator is seated in the
operator’s seat or saddle.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, no person
shall operate or be a passenger on a snowmobile or motorcycle without using
safety glasses or other protective eye device. Except as provided in division
(C)(3) of this section, no person who is under the age of 18 years, or who
holds a motorcycle operator’s endorsement or license bearing a “novice”
designation that is currently in effect as provided in R.C. § 4507.13, shall
operate a motorcycle on a highway, or be a passenger on a motorcycle, unless
wearing a protective helmet on the person’s head, and no other person shall be
a passenger on a motorcycle operated by such a person unless similarly wearing
a protective helmet. The helmet, safety glasses, or other protective eye device
shall conform with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety. The
provisions of this paragraph or a violation thereof shall not be used in the
trial of any civil action.
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, no
person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary instruction permit and
temporary instruction permit identification card issued by the Registrar of
Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 unless the person, at the time of
such operation, is wearing on the person’s head a protective helmet that
conforms with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety.
         (b)   No person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary
instruction permit and temporary instruction permit identification card issued
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 in any of the
following circumstances:
            1.   At any time when lighted lights are required by R.C. § 4513.03
(A)(1);
            2.   While carrying a passenger;
            3.   On any limited access highway or heavily congested roadway.
      (3)   Divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2)(a) of this section do not apply to a
person who operates or is a passenger in an autocycle or cab-enclosed
motorcycle when the occupant compartment top is in place enclosing the
occupants.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the carrying
of a child in a seat or trailer that is designed for carrying children and is
firmly attached to the bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B) or (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates division (B) or (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates division (B) or (C)(1) or
(C)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.53)
§ 75.05 PROHIBITION AGAINST ATTACHING BICYCLES AND SLEDS TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person riding upon any bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster,
roller skates, sled, skateboard, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or self
to any vehicle upon a roadway.
      (2)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person riding upon any
bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skateboard, or toy
vehicle to attach the same or self to any vehicle while it is moving upon a
roadway.
      (3)   This section does not apply to towing a disabled vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.54)
§ 75.06 RIDING BICYCLES; MOTORCYCLES ABREAST.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle upon a roadway
shall ride as near to the right side of the roadway as practicable obeying all
traffic rules applicable to vehicles and exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles, electric bicycles, or motorcycles upon a
roadway shall ride not more than two abreast in a single lane, except on paths
or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, electric
bicycles, or motorcycles.
   (C)   This section does not require a person operating a bicycle or electric
bicycle to ride at the edge of the roadway when it is unreasonable or unsafe to
do so. Conditions that may require riding away from the edge of the roadway
include when necessary to avoid fixed or moving objects, parked or moving
vehicles, surface hazards, or if it otherwise is unsafe or impracticable to do
so, including if the lane is too narrow for the bicycle or electric bicycle and
an overtaking vehicle to travel safely side by side within the lane.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.55)
§ 75.07 EQUIPMENT OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   Every bicycle or electric bicycle when in use at the times specified
in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall be
equipped with the following:
      (1)   A lamp mounted on the front of either the bicycle or electric
bicycle or the operator that shall emit a white light visible from a distance
of at least 500 feet to the front and 300 feet to the sides. A generator-
powered lamp that emits light only when the bicycle or electric bicycle is
moving may be used to meet this requirement.
      (2)   A red reflector on the rear that shall be visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when directly in front of
lawful lower beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle;
      (3)   A lamp emitting either flashing or steady red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear shall be used in addition to the red
reflector. If the red lamp performs as a reflector in that it is visible as
specified in division (A)(2) of this section, the red lamp may serve as the
reflector and a separate reflector is not required.
   (B)   Additional lamps and reflectors may be used in addition to those
required under division (A) of this section, except that red lamps and red
reflectors shall not be used on the front of the bicycle or electric bicycle
and white lamps and white reflectors shall not be used on the rear of the
bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (C)   A bicycle or electric bicycle may be equipped with a device capable of
giving an audible signal, except that a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not
be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a bicycle or electric bicycle
any siren or whistle.
   (D)   Every bicycle and electric bicycle shall be equipped with an adequate
brake when used on a street or highway.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.56)
SNOWMOBILES, OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLES,
AND ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLES
§ 75.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed primarily for
cross-country travel on land and water, or on more than one type of terrain,
and steered by wheels or caterpillar treads, or any combination thereof,
including vehicles that operate on a cushion of air, vehicles commonly known as
all-terrain vehicles, all season vehicles, mini-bikes and trail bikes. The term
does not include a utility vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4501.01 or any vehicle
principally used in playing golf, any motor vehicle or aircraft required to be
registered under R.C. Chapter 4503 or R.C. Chapter 4561, and any vehicle
excepted from definition as a motor vehicle by R.C. § 4501.01(B).
   DEALER. Any person or firm engaged in the business of manufacturing or
selling snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, or all-purpose vehicles at
wholesale or retail, or who rents, leases or otherwise furnishes snowmobiles,
off-highway motorcycles, or all-purpose vehicles for hire.
   ELECTRONIC. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   ELECTRONIC DEALER. A dealer whom the Registrar of Motor Vehicles designates
under R.C. § 4519.511.
   ELECTRONIC RECORD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   HIGHWAY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   INTERSTATE HIGHWAY. Any part of the interstate system of highways as defined
in subsection (e), 90 Stat. 431 (1976), 23 U.S.C. § 103, as amended.
   LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAY OR FREEWAY. Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
5511.02.
   MINI-TRUCK. A vehicle that has four wheels, is propelled by an electric
motor with a rated power of 7,500 watts or less or an internal combustion
engine with a piston displacement capacity of 660 cubic centimeters or less,
has a total dry weight of 900 to 2,200 pounds, contains an enclosed cabin and a
seat for the vehicle operator, resembles a pickup truck or van with a cargo
area or bed located at the rear of the vehicle, and was not originally
manufactured to meet federal motor vehicle safety standards.
   OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE. Every motorcycle, as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that
is designed to be operated primarily on lands other than a street or highway.
   OPERATOR. Any person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle.
   OWNER. Any person or firm, other than a lienholder or dealer, having title
to a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle, or other right
to the possession thereof.
   PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4509.01.
   SNOWMOBILE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed primarily for use on snow or
ice, and steered by skis, runners or caterpillar treads.
   STATE HIGHWAY and STATE ROUTE. Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   STREET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 4519.01)
§ 75.26 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   In addition to any rules or regulations promulgated by the Ohio
Director of Public Safety pursuant to R.C. § 4519.20 and R.C. Chapter 119,
equipment of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, and all-purpose vehicles
shall include but not necessarily be limited to requirements for the following
items of equipment:
      (1)   At least one headlight having a minimum candlepower of sufficient
intensity to reveal persons and objects at a distance of at least 100 feet
ahead under normal atmospheric conditions during hours of darkness;
      (2)   At least one red tail light having a minimum candlepower of
sufficient intensity to be plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to the
rear under normal atmospheric conditions during hours of darkness;
      (3)   Every snowmobile, while traveling on packed snow, shall be capable
of carrying a driver who weighs 175 pounds or more, and, while carrying such
driver, be capable of stopping in no more than 40 feet from an initial steady
speed of 20 miles per hour, or locking its traction belt; and
      (4)   A muffler system capable of precluding the emission of excessive
smoke or exhaust fumes, and of limiting the engine noise of vehicles. On
snowmobiles manufactured after January 1, 1973, such requirement shall include
sound dampening equipment such that noise does not exceed 82 decibels on the
“A” scale at 50 feet as measured according to SAE J192 (September 1970).
   (B)   No person shall operate any snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or
all-purpose vehicle in violation of this section, except that equipment
specified in division (A)(1) and (A)(2) of this section shall not be required
on snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, or all-purpose vehicles operated
during the daylight hours.
(R.C. § 4519.20(A), (B))
   (C)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, lease, rent or otherwise furnish
for hire in this municipality any new snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or
all-purpose vehicle that fails to comply with any rule adopted by the Ohio
Director of Public Safety under R.C. § 4519.20 after the effective date of the
rule.
(R.C. § 4519.22(A))
   (D)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B) of this section shall be fined not more than $50. If the offender
within the preceding year previously has committed a violation of division (B)
of this section or of R.C. § 4519.20(B), whoever violates division (B) of this
section shall be fined not less than $15 nor more than $100, imprisoned not
more than three days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.20(C))
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (C) of this section shall be fined not more than $50. If the offender
within the preceding year previously has committed a violation of division (C)
of this section or of R.C. § 4519.22(A), whoever violates this section shall be
fined not less than $15 nor more than $100, imprisoned not more than three
days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.22(B))
§ 75.27 CODE APPLICATION; PROHIBITED OPERATION.
   (A)   The applicable provisions of this traffic code apply to the operation
of snowmobiles, off- highway motorcycles, and all-purpose vehicles, except that
no person shall operate a snowmobile, off- highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle as follows:
      (1)   On any state highway, including a limited access highway or freeway
or the right- of-way thereof, except for emergency travel during such time and
in such manner as the Ohio Director of Public Safety designates or except as
authorized by R.C. § 4519.41(F);
      (2)   On any private property, or in any nursery or planting area,
without the permission of the owner or other person having the right to
possession of the property;
      (3)   On any land or waters controlled by the state, except at those
locations where a sign has been posted permitting such operation;
      (4)   On the tracks or right-of-way of any operating railroad;
      (5)   While transporting any firearm, bow or other implement for hunting
that is not unloaded and securely encased;
      (6)   For the purpose of chasing, pursuing, capturing or killing any
animal or wild fowl; or
      (7)   During the time from sunset to sunrise, unless displaying lighted
lights as required by R.C. § 4519.20 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $500, imprisoned not less than 3 nor more than 30 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.40)
Cross-reference:
    Operation restricted for mini-trucks and low-speed, under-speed, or utility
vehicles, see §
73.16
§ 75.28 PERMITTED OPERATION.
   Snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, and all-purpose vehicles may be
operated as follows:
   (A)   To make a crossing of a highway, other than a highway as designated in
R.C. § 4519.40(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
whenever the crossing can be made in safety and will not interfere with the
movement of vehicular traffic approaching from any direction on the highway,
and provided that the operator yields the right-of-way to any approaching
traffic that presents an immediate hazard;
   (B)   On highways in the county or township road systems whenever the local
authority having jurisdiction over such highways so permits;
   (C)   Off and alongside street or highway for limited distances from the
point of unloading from a conveyance to the point at which the snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle is intended and authorized to be
operated;
   (D)   On the berm or shoulder of a highway, other than a highway as
designated in R.C. § 4519.40(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, when the terrain permits such operation to be undertaken safely and
without the necessity of entering any traffic lane;
   (E)   On the berm or shoulder or a county or township road, while traveling
from one area of operation of the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-
purpose vehicle to another such area.
   (F)   For snowmobiles without metal studded tracks and all-purpose vehicles,
on state highways located on an island in Lake Erie, including limited access
highways and freeways, between the first day of November and the thirtieth day
of April, provided that all of the following conditions apply:
      (1)   The operator has a valid driver’s license as required under R.C. §
4519.44.
      (2)   The snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle is in compliance with rules
governing safety equipment adopted under R.C. § 4519.20.
      (3)   The owner of the snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle maintains proof
of financial responsibility for both on-road and off-road use of the snowmobile
or all-purpose vehicle.
      (4)   The operator obeys all traffic rules and regulations.
(R.C. § 4519.41)
§ 75.29 LICENSING REQUIREMENTS OF OPERATOR.
   (A)   No person who does not hold a valid, current motor vehicle driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, motorcycle operator’s endorsement or probationary
license, issued under R.C. Chapter 4506 or R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid,
current driver’s license issued by another jurisdiction, shall operate a
snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle on any street or
highway in this municipality, on any portion of the right-of-way thereof, or on
any public land or waters.
   (B)   No person who is less than 16 years of age shall operate a snowmobile,
off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle on any land or waters other than
private property or waters owned by or leased to the person’s parent or
guardian, unless accompanied by another person who is 18 years of age or older,
and who holds a license as provided in division (A) of this section, except
that the Ohio Department of Natural Resources may permit such operation on
state controlled land under its jurisdiction when such person is less than 16
years of age and is accompanied by a parent or guardian who is a licensed
driver 18 years of age or older.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $500, imprisoned not less than 3 nor more than 30 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.44)
§ 75.30 MAINTENANCE OF VEHICLES FOR HIRE.
   (A)   Any dealer who rents, leases or otherwise furnishes a snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle for hire shall maintain the vehicle
in safe operating condition. No dealer, or agent or employee of a dealer, shall
rent, lease or otherwise furnish a snowmobile, off- highway motorcycle, or all-
purpose vehicle for hire to any person who does not hold a license as required
by R.C. § 4519.44(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or to
any person whom the dealer or an agent or employee of the dealer has reasonable
cause to believe is incompetent to operate the vehicle in a safe and lawful
manner.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $500.
(R.C. § 4519.45)
§ 75.31 ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   (A)   The operator of a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle involved in any accident resulting in bodily injury to or death of any
person or damage to the property of any person in excess of $100 shall report
the accident within 48 hours to the Chief of Police, and within 30 days shall
forward a written report of the accident to the Ohio Registrar of Motor
Vehicles on a form prescribed by the Registrar. If the operator is physically
incapable of making the reports and there is another participant in the
accident not so incapacitated, the participant shall make the reports. In the
event there is no other participant, and the operator is other than the owner,
the owner, within the prescribed periods of time, shall make the reports.
   (B)   Any law enforcement officer or other person authorized by R.C. §§
4519.42 and 4519.43 who investigates or receives information of an accident
involving a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle shall
forward to the Registrar a written report of the accident within 48 hours.
(R.C. § 4519.46)
§ 75.32 IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   Whenever a person is found guilty of operating a snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle in violation of any rule authorized
to be adopted under R.C. § 4519.21 or 4519.42, the trial judge of any court of
record, in addition to or independent of any other penalties provided by law,
may impound for not less than 60 days the certificate of registration and
license plate, if applicable, of that snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or
all-purpose vehicle. The court shall send the impounded certificate of
registration and license plate, if applicable, to the Registrar of Motor
Vehicles, who shall retain the certificate of registration and license plate,
if applicable, until the expiration of the period of impoundment.
   (B)   If a court impounds the certificate of registration and license plate
of an all-purpose vehicle pursuant to R.C. § 2911.21, the court shall send the
impounded certificate of registration and license plate to the Registrar, who
shall retain them until the expiration of the period of impoundment.
(R.C. § 4519.47)
§ 75.33 LOCAL CONTROL WITHIN POLICE POWER.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall prevent the municipality from
regulating the operation of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycle, and all-
purpose vehicles on streets and highways and other public property under
municipal jurisdiction, and within the reasonable exercise of the police power,
except that no registration or licensing of any snowmobile, off-highway
motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle required to be registered or titled under
R.C. Chapter 4519 shall be required.
(R.C. § 4519.48)
§ 75.34 REGISTRATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B), (C) and (D) of this section,
no person shall operate any snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle within this municipality unless the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle,
or all-purpose vehicle is registered and numbered in accordance with R.C. §§
4519.03 and 4519.04.
      (2)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4511.215 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, no registration is required for a mini-truck that is
operated within this state. A mini-truck may be operated only in accordance
with R.C. § 4511.215 and R.C. § 4519.401, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (B)   (1)   No registration is required for a snowmobile or off-highway
motorcycle that is operated exclusively upon lands owned by the owner of the
snowmobile or off-highway motorcycle, or on lands to which the owner of the
snowmobile or off-highway motorcycle has a contractual right.
      (2)   No registration is required for an all-purpose vehicle that is used
primarily for agricultural purposes when the owner qualifies for the current
agricultural use valuation tax credit, unless it is to be used on any public
land, trail, or right-of-way.
      (3)   Any all-purpose vehicle exempted from registration under division
(B)(2) of this section and operated for agricultural purposes may use public
roads and rights-of-way when traveling from one farm field to another, when
such use does not violate R.C. § 4519.41.
      (4)   No registration is required for a snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle
that is operated on a state highway as authorized by R.C. § 4519.41(F).
   (C)   No registration is required for a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle,
or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this state by a resident of another
state whenever that state has in effect a registration law similar to R.C.
Chapter 4519 and the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all- purpose
vehicle is properly registered under that state’s law. Any snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this state by a
resident of a state not having a registration law similar to R.C. Chapter 4519
shall comply with R.C. § 4519.09.
   (D)   No registration is required for a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle,
or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this municipality by the United
States, another state or a political subdivision thereof, but the snowmobile,
off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle shall display the name of the
owner thereon.
   (E)   The owner or operator of any all-purpose vehicle operated or used upon
the waters in this municipality shall comply with R.C. Chapter 1547 and R.C.
Chapter 1548 relative to the operation of watercraft.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $100.
(R.C. § 4519.02)
Statutory reference:
   Destruction or disposal of vehicle; transfer of ownership; change of
address; loss of certificate, see R.C. § 4519.05
   Registration of emergency vehicles, see R.C. § 4519.08
   Registration procedure, see R.C. § 4519.03
   Temporary license placards and fees, see R.C. § 4519.10
   Temporary operating permit for certain nonresidents, see R.C. § 4519.09
§ 75.35 CERTIFICATE OF TITLE; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate in this state an off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle without having a certificate of title for the off-highway motorcycle or
all-purpose vehicle if such a certificate is required by R.C. Chapter 4519 to
be issued for the off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle, or, if a
physical certificate of title has not been issued for it, operate an off-
highway motorcycle or all- purpose vehicle knowing that the ownership
information related to the motorcycle or vehicle has not been entered into the
automated title processing system by a Clerk of a Court of Common Pleas.
      (2)   Operate in this municipality an off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle is a certificate of title to the off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle has been issued and then has been canceled.
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title upon cancellation of it
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles and notice of the cancellation as prescribed
in R.C. Chapter 4519.
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a Clerk of a Court of
Common Pleas as provided in R.C. Chapter 4519, in case of the destruction or
dismantling of, or change in, the off- highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle described in the certificate of title.
      (5)   Violate any provision of R.C. §§ 4519.51 through 4519.70 for which
no penalty is otherwise provided or any lawful rules adopted pursuant to those
sections.
      (6)   Operate in this state an off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle knowing that the certificate of title to or ownership of the motorcycle
or vehicle as otherwise reflected in the automated title processing system has
been canceled.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $200,
imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.66)
Statutory reference:
   Certificate of title: rules and procedures, see R.C. §§ 4519.51 et seq.
   Stolen vehicles and restrictions on sale or transfer, felony provisions, see
R.C. § 4519.67
CHAPTER 76: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
76.01   Prohibition against parking on highways
   
76.02   Condition when motor vehicle left unattended
   
76.03   Police may remove illegally parked vehicle
   
76.04   Parking prohibitions
   
76.05   Parking near curb; privileges for persons with disabilities
   
76.06   Parking on private property in violation of posted prohibition
   
76.07   Selling, washing or repairing vehicle upon roadway
   
76.08   Truck loading zones
   
76.09   Bus stops and taxicab stands
   
76.10   Parking in alleys and narrow streets; exceptions
   
76.11   Registered owner prima facie liable for unlawful parking
   
76.12   Waiver
   
76.13   Heavy vehicle restrictions
   
76.14   Trailer and recreational vehicle restrictions
Cross-reference:
   Unlawful furnishing of prescription to enable persons to be issued
handicapped parking placards or license plates, see §
138.17
Statutory reference:
   Noncriminal parking infractions, local option to create, see R.C. Chapter
4521
§ 76.01 PROHIBITION AGAINST PARKING ON HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon any highway, no person shall stop, park, or leave standing
any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the paved or main traveled
part of the highway if it is practicable to stop, park, or so leave such
vehicle off the paved or main traveled part of the highway. In every event a
clear and unobstructed portion of the highway opposite such standing vehicle
shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles, and a clear view of such
stopped vehicle shall be available from a distance of 200 feet in each
direction upon such highway.
      (2)   This section does not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the paved or improved or main traveled portion of a highway
in such manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving the disabled vehicle in such position.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.66)
§ 76.02 CONDITION WHEN MOTOR VEHICLE LEFT UNATTENDED.
   (A)   (1)   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit
it to stand unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition,
removing the key from the ignition, effectively setting the parking brake, and,
when the motor vehicle is standing upon any grade, turning the front wheels to
the curb or side of the highway.
      (2)   The requirements of this section relating to the stopping of the
engine, locking of the ignition, and removing the key from the ignition of a
motor vehicle do not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   A motor vehicle that is parked on residential property;
         (b)   A motor vehicle that is locked, regardless of where it is
parked;
         (c)   An emergency vehicle ;
         (d)   A public safety vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.661)
§ 76.03 POLICE MAY REMOVE ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in
violation of R.C. § 4511.66 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
such officer may move such vehicle, or require the driver or other person in
charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position off the paved or improved
or main traveled part of such highway.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any
highway, bridge, or causeway, or in any tunnel, where such vehicles constitutes
an obstruction to traffic, such officer may provide for the removal of such
vehicle to the nearest garage or other place of safety.
(R.C. § 4511.67)
§ 76.04 PARKING PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or to comply with the provisions of this
title, or while obeying the directions of a police officer or a traffic-control
device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk, except as provided in division (B) of this section;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet of, and upon the approach to, any flashing beacon,
stop sign, or traffic-control device;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by a traffic-control device;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of a driveway entrance to any fire station and, on
the side of the street opposite the entrance to any fire station, within 75
feet of the entrance when it is properly posted with signs;
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
such standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   Alongside any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or elevated structure upon a highway, or within a
highway tunnel;
      (14)   At any place where signs prohibit stopping;
      (15)   Within one foot of another parked vehicle;
      (16)   On the roadway portion of a freeway, expressway, or thruway.
   (B)   A person is permitted, without charge or restriction, to stand or park
on a sidewalk a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter that has an engine not
larger than 150 cubic centimeters, a low-speed micromobility device, or a
bicycle or electric bicycle, provided that the motor-driven cycle, motor
scooter, low-speed micromobility device, bicycle, or electric bicycle does not
impede the normal flow of pedestrian traffic. This division does not authorize
any person to operate a vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.711, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.68)
§ 76.05 PARKING NEAR CURB; PRIVILEGES FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   (A)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there is an
adjacent curb shall be stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels of the
vehicle parallel with and not more than 12 inches from the right-hand curb,
unless it is impossible to approach so close to the curb; in such case the stop
shall be made as close to the curb as possible and only for the time necessary
to discharge and receive passengers or to load or unload merchandise. Local
authorities by ordinance may permit angle parking on any roadway under their
jurisdiction, except that angle parking shall not be permitted on a state route
within the municipality unless an unoccupied roadway width of not less than 25
feet is available for free- moving traffic.
   (B)   Local authorities by ordinance may permit parking of vehicles with the
left-hand wheels adjacent to and within 12 inches of the left-hand curb of a
one-way roadway.
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(1)(b) of this section,
no vehicle shall be stopped or parked on a road or highway with the vehicle
facing in a direction other than the direction of travel on that side of the
road or highway.
         (b)   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into an
angled parking space so that when the motorcycle is parked it is facing in a
direction other than the direction of travel on the side of the road or
highway.
      (2)   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into a parking
space that is located on the side of, and parallel to, a road or highway. The
motorcycle may face any direction when so parked. Not more than two motorcycles
at a time shall be parked in a parking space as described in division (C)(2) of
this section irrespective of whether or not the space is metered.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any statute or any rule, regulation, resolution, or
ordinance, air compressors, tractors, trucks, and other equipment, while being
used in the construction, reconstruction, installation, repair, or removal of
facilities near, on, over, or under a street or highway, may stop, stand, or
park where necessary in order to perform such work, provided a flagperson is on
duty or warning signs or lights are displayed as may be prescribed by the
Director of Transportation.
   (E)   Accessible parking locations and privileges for persons with
disabilities that limit or impair the ability to walk shall be provided and
designated by all political subdivisions and by the state and all agencies and
instrumentalities thereof at all offices and facilities where parking is
provided, whether owned, rented, or leased, and at all publicly owned parking
garages. The locations shall be designated through the posting of an elevated
sign, whether permanently affixed or movable, imprinted with the international
symbol of access and shall be reasonably close to exits, entrances, elevators,
and ramps. All elevated signs posted in accordance with this division and R.C.
§ 3781.111(C) shall be mounted on a fixed or movable post, and the distance
from the ground to the bottom edge of the sign shall measure not less than five
feet. If a new sign or a replacement sign designating an accessible parking
location is posted on or after October 14, 1999, there also shall be affixed
upon the surface of that sign or affixed next to the designating sign a notice
that states the fine applicable for the offense of parking a motor vehicle in
the designated accessible parking location if the motor vehicle is not legally
entitled to be parked in that location.
   (F)   (1)   (a)   No person shall stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle at
accessible parking locations provided under division (E) of this section, or at
accessible clearly marked parking locations provided in or on privately owned
parking lots, parking garages, or other parking areas and designated in
accordance with that division, unless one of the following applies:
            1.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a valid removable windshield placard or accessible license plates;
or
            2.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a person with a disability and is displaying a parking card or accessible
license plates.
         (b)   Any motor vehicle that is parked in an accessible marked parking
location in violation of division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section
may be towed or otherwise removed from the parking location by the law
enforcement agency of the municipality. A motor vehicle that is so towed or
removed shall not be released to its owner until the owner presents proof of
ownership of the motor vehicle and pays all towing and storage fees normally
imposed by the municipality for towing and storing motor vehicles. If the motor
vehicle is a leased vehicle, it shall not be released to the lessee until the
lessee presents proof that that person is the lessee of the motor vehicle and
pays all towing and storage fees normally imposed by the municipality for
towing and storing motor vehicles.
         (c)   If a person is charged with a violation of division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section, it is an affirmative defense to the charge that
the person suffered an injury not more than 72 hours prior to the time the
person was issued the ticket or citation and that, because of the injury, the
person meets at least one of the criteria contained in R.C. § 4503.44(A)(1).
      (2)    No person shall stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle in an area
that is commonly known as an access aisle, which area is marked by diagonal
stripes and is located immediately adjacent to an accessible parking location
provided under division (E) of this section or at an accessible clearly marked
parking location provided in or on a privately owned parking lot, parking
garage, or other parking area and designated in accordance with that division.
   (G)   When a motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a
person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a removable windshield placard or accessible license plates, or when
a motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a person with a
disability and is displaying a parking card or accessible license plates, the
motor vehicle is permitted to park for a period of two hours in excess of the
legal parking period permitted by local authorities, except where local
ordinances or police rules provide otherwise or where the vehicle is parked in
such a manner as to be clearly a traffic hazard.
   (H)   No owner of an office, facility, or parking garage where accessible
parking locations are required to be designated in accordance with division (E)
of this section shall fail to properly mark the accessible parking locations in
accordance with that division or fail to maintain the markings of the
accessible locations, including the erection and maintenance of the fixed or
movable signs.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require a person or
organization to apply for a removable windshield placard or accessible license
plates if the parking card or accessible license plates issued to the person or
organization under prior law have not expired or been surrendered or revoked.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      ACCESSIBLE LICENSE PLATES and REMOVABLE WINDSHIELD PLACARD. Mean any
license plates, standard removable windshield placard, permanent removable
windshield placard, or temporary removable windshield placard issued under R.C.
§ 4503.41 or 4503.44, and also mean any substantially similar license plates or
removable windshield placard issued by a state, district, country, or
sovereignty.
      PERSON WITH A DISABILITY. Means any person who has lost the use of one or
both legs or one or both arms, who is blind, deaf, or unable to move without
the aid of crutches or a wheelchair, or whose mobility is restricted by a
permanent cardiovascular, pulmonary, or other disabling condition.
      PERSON WITH A DISABILITY THAT LIMITS OR IMPAIRS THE ABILITY TO WALK. Has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 4503.44.
   (K)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (A) or (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in
division (K)(2)(a) and (K)(2)(b) of this section. Except as otherwise provided
in division (K)(2)(a) of this section, an offender who violates division (F)(1)
(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section shall be fined not less than $250 nor more
than $500. An offender who violates division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section shall be fined not more than $100 if the offender, prior to sentencing,
proves either of the following to the satisfaction of the court:
            1.   At the time of the violation of division (F)(1)(a)1. of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a removable windshield placard that then was
valid or accessible license plates that then were valid but the offender or the
person neglected to display the placard or license plates as described in
division (F)(1)(a)1. of this section.
            2.   At the time of the violation of division (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a parking card that then was valid or accessible
license plates that then were valid but the offender or the person neglected to
display the card or license plates as described in division (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section.
         (b)   In no case shall an offender who violates division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. be sentenced to any term of imprisonment.
         (c)   An arrest or conviction for a violation of division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section does not constitute a criminal record and need
not be reported by the person so arrested or convicted in response to any
inquiries contained in any application for employment, license, or other right
or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s appearance as a witness.
         (d)   The clerk of the court shall pay every fine collected under
divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of this section to the municipality. Except as
provided in division (K)(2) of this section, the municipality shall use the
fine moneys it receives under divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of this section to
pay the expenses it incurs in complying with the signage and notice
requirements contained in division (E) of this section. The municipality may
use up to 50% of each fine it receives under divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of
this section to pay the costs of educational, advocacy, support, and assistive
technology programs for persons with disabilities, and for public improvements
within the municipality that benefit or assist persons with disabilities, if
governmental agencies or nonprofit organizations offer the programs.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (F)(2) of this section shall be fined not
less than $250 nor more than $500. In no case shall an offender who violates
division (F)(2) of this section be sentenced to any term of imprisonment. An
arrest or conviction for a violation of division (F)(2) of this section does
not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries contained in any application
for employment, license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection
with the person’s appearance as a witness.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (H) of this section shall be punished as
follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (K)(4) of this section,
the offender shall be issued a warning.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (H) of this section or of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to that division, the offender shall
not be issued a warning but shall be fined not more than $25 for each parking
location that is not properly marked or whose markings are not properly
maintained.
(R.C. § 4511.69)
Cross-reference:
   Unlawful furnishing of prescription to enable persons to be issued
handicapped parking placards or license plates, see §
138.17
Statutory reference:
   Buildings, access for disabled persons, see R.C. § 3781.111
§ 76.06 PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY IN VIOLATION OF POSTED PROHIBITION.
   (A)   If an owner of private property posts on the property in a conspicuous
manner a prohibition against parking on the property or conditions and
regulations under which parking is permitted, no person shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   Park a vehicle on the property without the owner’s consent;
      (2)   Park a vehicle on the property in violation of any condition or
regulation posted by the owner.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.681)
§ 76.07 SELLING, WASHING OR REPAIRING VEHICLE UPON ROADWAY.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon any roadway for the
principal purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying such vehicle for sale; or
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle except repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.08 TRUCK LOADING ZONES.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of
time, other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup and
loading of materials, in any place marked as a truck loading zone during hours
when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no case shall
the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.09 BUS STOPS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a
bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand, when any such stop or
stand has been officially designated and appropriately posted, except that the
driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of,
and while actually engaged in, loading or unloading passengers when such
stopping does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about
to enter such zone, and then only for a period not to exceed three minutes, if
such stopping is not prohibited therein by posted signs.
   (B)   No operator of a bus shall stop, stand or park such vehicle upon any
street or other public way at any place for the purpose of loading or unloading
passengers or their baggage other than at a bus stop so designated and posted
as such, except in case of an emergency.
   (C)   No operator of a bus shall fail to enter a bus stop on a street or
other public way in such a manner that the bus when stopped to load or unload
passengers or baggage is in a position with the right front wheel of such
vehicle not further than 18 inches from the curb and the bus approximately
parallel to the curb so as not to unduly impede the movement of other vehicular
traffic.
   (D)   No operator of a taxicab shall stand or park such vehicle upon any
street or other public way at any place other than in a taxicab stand so
designated and posted as such. This provision shall not prevent the operator of
a taxicab from temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or
parking provisions at any place for the purpose of, and while actually engaged
in, the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.10 PARKING IN ALLEYS AND NARROW STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon a street, other
than an alley, in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available
less than ten feet of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular
traffic, except that a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or
unloading of passengers or when directed to by a police officer or traffic
control signal.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by law, no person shall stop, stand or
park a vehicle within an alley except while actually loading and unloading, and
then only for a period not to exceed 30 minutes.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.11 REGISTERED OWNER PRIMA FACIE LIABLE FOR UNLAWFUL PARKING.
   In any hearing on a charge of illegally parking a motor vehicle, testimony
that a vehicle bearing a certain license plate was found unlawfully parked as
prohibited by the provisions of this Traffic Code, and further testimony that
the record of the Ohio Registrar of Motor Vehicles shows that the license plate
was issued to the defendant, shall be prima facie evidence that the vehicle
which was unlawfully parked, was so parked by the defendant. A certified
registration copy, showing such fact, from the Registrar shall be proof of such
ownership.
§ 76.12 WAIVER.
   Any person charged with a violation of any provision of this chapter for
which payment of a prescribed fine may be made, may pay such sum in the manner
prescribed on the issued traffic ticket. Such payment shall be deemed a plea of
guilty, waiver of court appearance and acknowledgment of conviction of the
alleged offense and may be accepted in full satisfaction of the prescribed
penalty for such alleged violation. Payment of the prescribed fine need not be
accepted when laws prescribe that a certain number of such offenses shall
require court appearance.
§ 76.13 HEAVY VEHICLE RESTRICTIONS.
   No person shall stop, park or leave standing any vehicle or unit with a
manufacturer’s gross weight in excess of 10,000 pounds (except for those
vehicles owned by the village) upon any property owned by the village at any
time during an eight-hour period which begins daily at 10:00 p.m. and ends at
6:00 a.m.
(Ord. 21-30, passed 11-30-2021) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.14 TRAILER AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall stop or leave standing any trailer or recreational
vehicle upon the public streets or alleys within the village or upon any
municipal parking lot within the village for a period in excess of 24 hours.
   (B)   Any person who has parked a trailer or recreational vehicle upon the
public streets or alleys of the village or in a village municipal parking lot
must wait 48 hours before they may stop, park or leave standing a trailer on
the same street or alley or municipal parking lot within the village, unless
they have received a trailer parking permit, pursuant to division (D) below.
   (C)   TRAILER shall be defined pursuant to R.C. § 4501.01(M) and
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE shall be defined pursuant to R.C. § 4501.01(Q), and R.C. §
4501.01(M) as presently enacted or as hereafter amended.
   (D)   (1)   Any person who desires to park a trailer upon a public street or
alley within the village or upon a municipal parking lot within the village for
a period of time exceeding 24 hours must first obtain a trailer parking permit
from the Village Administrator or his or her designee.
      (2)   The Village Administrator or his or her designee may issue the
trailer parking permit for a set time period at a charge of $5 for each day the
permit is to be in effect.
      (3)   The issuance of the trailer parking permit in each case shall be at
the discretion of the Village Administrator, who may consider forecast weather
conditions, scheduled events or any other factor which he or she feels may be
pertinent in deciding whether or not to issue the permit.
      (4)   The trailer parking permit shall be on a form prepared by the
Village Administrator and approved by the Village Solicitor and shall contain
the location the trailer is to be parked; the name and address of the person
who is responsible to move the trailer in case of emergency; and the telephone
numbers where the person responsible for moving the trailer may be reached
during all times the trailer parking permit is in effect.
(Ord. 21-30, passed 11-30-2021) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 77: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   No passing zones
      
II.   One-way streets
      
III.   Railroad crossings
      
IV.   School zones
      
V.   Speed limits
      
VI.   Stop intersections
SCHEDULE I. NO PASSING ZONES.
 
Street          Ord. No. Date Passed
County Road 25A 13-07    3-26-2013
 
SCHEDULE II. ONE-WAY STREETS.
 
Street       Direction                                  Ord. No. Date Passed
Guest Street South except for south 100 feet north from 84-20    11-14-1984
             Elm Street intersection
 
SCHEDULE III. RAILROAD CROSSINGS.
 
Intersection                             Res. No. Date Passed
South Street and Chessie System Railroad 84-8     6-12-1984
 
SCHEDULE IV. SCHOOL ZONES.
 
Street             Description          Speed Limit      Ord. No. Date Passed
                                        (Miles Per Hour)
                   375 feet east of the
                   intersection with
East State Street  Main Street and      20               93-38    12-14- 1993
(SR 219)           proceeding 850 feet
                   east from beginning
                   point
                   200 feet to the east
                   of the intersection
                   of Main Street and
                   State Street; thence
State Street       proceeding in an                      85-9     6-11-1985
                   easterly direction
                   along State Street
                   684 feet between the
                   flashing lights
 
SCHEDULE V. SPEED LIMITS.
 
Street            Description             Speed Limit      Ord. No. Date Passed
                                          (Miles Per Hour)
                  Portion that lies
                  within the village
Kentner Road      corporate limit and     50               06-08    3-28-2006
                  which forms the
                  easternmost boundary of
                  the village
                  Intersection of State
                  Street and proceeding
Main Street       in a southerly          35               94-27    8-9-1994
                  direction to the
                  corporation limit
                  From a point (logpoint
South Main Street 18.47) to Loy Street    35               21-10    5-11-2021
                  (logpoint 18.99)
                  From the southern
South Main Street corporation limit       50               21-11    5-11-2021
                  (logpoint 16.70) to a
                  point (logpoint 18.47)
 
SCHEDULE VI. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
Street Description Ord. No. Date Passed
Street            Description                              Ord. No. Date Passed
East Lynn Street  All-way stop at East Lynn Street and     00-17    10-10- 2000
                  Huber Street
East South Street Four-way stop at East South Street and   21-13    5-11-2021
                  South Sycamore
Elm Street        Approaching Walnut Street while          96-23    11-12- 1996
                  proceeding in a northerly direction
Maurer Street     Easterly at Mill Street                  91-13    8-13-1991
South Main Street Four-way stop at South Main Street and   21-12    5-11-2021
                  SR 274 (logpoint 17.23)
Walnut Street     Four-way stop at Walnut Street and Huber 99-1     3-9-1999
                  Street
West Street       Two-way stop at West Street and West     94-13    7-12-1994
                  South Street
 
CHAPTER 78: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Limited parking
      
II.   No parking
SCHEDULE I. LIMITED PARKING.
 
Street                  Description                        Ord. No. Date Passed
                        Special permit parking extending
205 W. State Street     20 feet from the west properly     03-20    10-14-2003
                        line of the residence
                        Six spaces designated as
                        handicapped parking and two spaces
Botkins Community Park  designated as reserve parked for   07-20    9-25-2007
                        those age 65 and over and/or
                        handicapped
                        Three northern most marked and
                        designated diagonal parking spaces
                        located on west side of building
                        on West State Street are 2-hour
                        parking spaces
                        Five marked and designated
                        diagonal parking spaces located on
Botkins Fire Department the west side of Fire Department   09-09    8-11-2009
                        shall have 2-hour parking for use
                        by the public from 8:00 a.m. until
                        5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday;
                        and after 5:00 p.m. Monday through
                        Friday and all day Saturday and
                        Sunday, by member of the Fire
                        Department and emergency personnel
                        when responding to an emergency
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. NO PARKING.
Street Description Ord. No. Date Passed
Street            Description                              Ord. No. Date Passed
County Road 25A   North Street to the village corporation  21-33    11-9-2021
                  limit
East State Street North side of East State Street          99-2     3-9-1999
                  West side of street and along the 150-
                  foot section on the south side of State
Hickory Street    Street which commences at the middle of  07-23    12-11-2007
                  the intersection of Hickory Street and
                  State Street and extends 75 feet in
                  either direction
Lynn Street       North side from its intersection with    81-3     3-10-1981
                  Main Street a distance of 165 feet east
Maurer Street     South side of street                     02-20    10-8-2002
                  West side from State Street south the
Mill Street       first driveway between the hours of 7:00 81-19    12-8-1981
                  a.m. and 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday
                  West side from South Street to Loy
Mill Street       Street between the hours of 6:00 a.m.    87-3     3-10-1987
                  and 6:00 p.m.
West Street       West side abutting Lot 306               13-09    3-26-2013
West Lynn Street  Both sides from its intersection with    88-8     6-14-1988
                  Roth Street a distance 165 feet east
                  North side from the intersection of Oak
West State Street Street in an easterly direction to the   86-10    6-10-1986
                  intersection of Main Street
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
91.   INTOXICATING LIQUORS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 90: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
90.01   Burning prohibited
   
90.02   Permitted burning
   
90.03   Damage to property
   
90.04   No burning in public places
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 BURNING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
90.02, no person shall build, make, cause, assist the same to be done or suffer
the same to be done, any fire or bonfire within the corporation limits of the
village.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any garbage or other type
of material which shall tend to smoulder or emit offensive odors, nor shall any
person permit any fire to smoulder.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
90.02, no fire or bonfire which is permissible herein shall be conducted after
6:00 p.m. and before 6:00 a.m.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
90.02, any fire or bonfire shall be supervised continuously by an adult person
who shall remain in the immediate vicinity of the fire or bonfire until the
fire or bonfire is completely out.
   (E)   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
90.02, it shall be unlawful to conduct any burning on Sundays.
(Ord. 93-19, passed 9-14-1993) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 PERMITTED BURNING.
   The burning of dry paper, cardboard, leaves or wood in a noncombustible
container is not subject to the prohibition contained in §
90.01(A).
(Ord. 93-19, passed 9-14-1993)
§ 90.03 DAMAGE TO PROPERTY.
   No person shall build, make, cause, assist the same to be done or suffer the
same to be done, any fire or bonfire which shall cause the burning of any other
property, real or personal. Any burning of any other property caused by said
fire or bonfire shall be prima facie evidence of the violation of this section.
(Ord. 93-19, passed 9-14-1993) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 NO BURNING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall build, make, cause, assist the same to be done or suffer the
same to be done, any fire or bonfire upon the surface of any street, alley or
other public place within the corporate limits of the village.
(Ord. 93-19, passed 9-14-1993) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a minor
misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100.
(Ord. 93-19, passed 9-14-1993)
CHAPTER 91: INTOXICATING LIQUORS
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Exemptions from chapter
   
91.03   Restrictions applicable to sale of beer and intoxicating liquor for
consumption on the premises
   
91.04   Restrictions on sale of beer and liquor
   
91.05   Permit required; activities prohibited without permit
   
91.06   Illegal transportation prohibited
   
91.07   Open container prohibited; exception
   
91.08   Underage person shall not purchase intoxicating liquor or beer
   
91.09   Prohibitions; minors under 18 years; low-alcohol beverages
   
91.10   Alcohol vaporizing devices prohibited
   
91.11   Misrepresentation to obtain alcoholic beverage for a minor prohibited
   
91.12   Misrepresentation by a minor under 21 years
   
91.13   Sale to underage persons prohibited
   
91.14   Posting of card
   
91.15   Good faith acceptances of spurious identification
   
91.16   Consumption in motor vehicle prohibited
   
91.17   Hours of sale or consumption
   
91.18   Obstructing search of premises prohibited
   
91.19   Illegal possession of intoxicating liquor prohibited
   
91.20   Sale or possession of diluted liquor and refilled containers prohibited
   
91.21   Keeping place where beer or intoxicating liquors are sold in violation
of law
   
91.22   Intoxicating liquors shall not be sold in brothels
   
91.23   Use of intoxicating liquor in a public dance hall prohibited;
exceptions
   
91.24   Poisonously adulterated liquors
   
91.25   Tavern keeper permitting rioting or drunkenness
   
91.26   Notice of action to prohibit liquor business
   
91.27   Procedure when injunction violated
   
91.28   Liquor transaction scans
   
91.29   Affirmative defenses
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Driving while intoxicated or drugged, implied consent, see §§
73.01 and
73.02
Statutory reference:
   Liquor permits, see R.C. Chapter 4303
   Local option elections, see R.C. §§ 4301.32 et seq.
   Use of license to violate liquor laws; suspension; procedures, see R.C. §
4510.33
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol, whether rectified or diluted with water or not,
whatever its origin may be, and includes synthetic ethyl alcohol. The term does
not include denatured alcohol and wood alcohol.
   AT RETAIL. For use or consumption by the purchaser and not for resale.
   BEER.
      (1)   Includes all beverages brewed or fermented wholly or in part from
malt products and containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume.
      (2)   Beer, regardless of the percent of alcohol by volume, is not
intoxicating liquor for purposes of this code, the Ohio Revised Code, or any
rules adopted under it.
   CIDER. All liquids that are fit to use for beverage purposes that contain
0.5% of alcohol by volume, but not more than 6% of alcohol by weight that are
made through the normal alcoholic fermentation of the juice of sound, ripe
apples, including, without limitation, flavored, sparkling, or carbonated cider
and cider made from pure condensed apple must.
   CLUB. A corporation or association of individuals organized in good faith
for social, recreational, benevolent, charitable, fraternal, political,
patriotic, or athletic purposes, which is the owner, lessor, or occupant of a
permanent building or part of a permanent building operated solely for such
purposes, membership in which entails the prepayment of regular dues, and
includes the place so operated.
   COMMUNITY FACILITY. Means either of the following:
      (1)   Any convention, sports or entertainment facility or complex, or any
combination of these, that is used by or accessible to the general public and
that is owned or operated in whole or in part by the state, a state agency, or
a political subdivision of the state or that is leased from, or located on
property owned by or leased from, the state, a state agency, a political
subdivision of the state, or a convention facilities authority created pursuant
to R.C. § 351.02;
      (2)   An area designated as a community entertainment district pursuant
to R.C. § 4301.80.
   CONTROLLED ACCESS ALCOHOL AND BEVERAGE CABINET. A closed container, either
refrigerated, in whole or in part, or non-refrigerated, access to the interior
of which is restricted by means of a device that requires the use of a key,
magnetic card, or similar device and from which beer, intoxicating liquor,
other beverages, or food may be sold.
   HOTEL. The same meaning as in R.C. § 3731.01, subject to the exceptions
mentioned in R.C. § 3731.03.
   INTOXICATING LIQUOR and LIQUOR. All liquids and compounds, other than beer,
containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume which are fit to use for beverage
purposes, from whatever source and by whatever process produced, by whatever
name called, and whether they are medicated, proprietary, or patented. The
terms include cider and alcohol, and all solids and confections which contain
0.5% or more of alcohol by volume.
   LOW-ALCOHOL BEVERAGE. Any brewed or fermented malt product or any product
made from the fermented juices of grapes, fruits, or other agricultural
products that contains either no alcohol or less than 0.5% of alcohol by
volume. The beverages described in this definition do not include a soft drink
such as root beer, birch beer, or ginger beer.
   MANUFACTURE. All processes by which beer or intoxicating liquor is produced,
whether by distillation, rectifying, fortifying, blending, fermentation,
brewing, or in any other manner.
   MANUFACTURER. Any person engaged in the business of manufacturing beer or
intoxicating liquor.
   MIXED BEVERAGES. Include bottled and prepared cordials, cocktails,
highballs, and solids and confections that are obtained by mixing any type of
whiskey, neutral spirits, brandy, gin or other distilled spirits with, or over,
carbonated or plain water, pure juices from flowers and plants, and other
flavoring materials. The completed product shall contain not less than 0.5% of
alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of alcohol by volume. The phrase
includes the contents of a pod.
   NIGHTCLUB. A place habitually operated for profit, where food is served for
consumption on the premises, and one or more forms of amusement are provided or
permitted for a consideration that may be in the form of a cover charge or may
be included in the price of the food and beverages, or both, purchased by
patrons.
   PERSON. Includes firms and corporations.
   PHARMACY. An establishment as defined in R.C. § 4729.01, that is under the
management or control of a licensed pharmacist in accordance with R.C. §
4729.27.
   POD. Means a sealed capsule made from plastic, glass, aluminum, or a
combination thereof to which all of the following apply:
      (1)   The capsule contains intoxicating liquor of more than 21% of
alcohol by volume.
      (2)   The capsule also contains a concentrated flavoring mixture.
      (3)   The contents of the capsule are not readily accessible or intended
for consumption unless certain manufacturer’s processing instructions are
followed.
      (4)   The instructions include releasing the contents of the capsule
through a machine specifically designed to process the contents.
      (5)   After being properly processed according to the manufacturer’s
instructions, the final product produced from the capsule contains not less
than 0.5% of alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of alcohol by volume.
   RESTAURANT. A place located in a permanent building provided with space and
accommodations wherein, in consideration of the payment of money, hot meals are
habitually prepared, sold, and served at noon and evening, as the principal
business of the place. The term does not include pharmacies, confectionery
stores, lunch stands, nightclubs, and filling stations.
   SALE and SELL. The exchange, barter, gift, offer for sale, sale,
distribution, and delivery of any kind, and the transfer of title or possession
of beer and intoxicating liquor either by constructive or actual delivery by
any means or devices whatever, including the sale of beer or intoxicating
liquor by means of a controlled access alcohol and beverage cabinet pursuant to
R.C. § 4301.21. Such terms do not include the mere solicitation of orders for
beer or intoxicating liquor from the holders of permits issued by the Division
of Liquor Control authorizing the sale of the beer or intoxicating liquor, but
no solicitor shall solicit any orders until the solicitor has been registered
with the Division pursuant to R.C. § 4303.25.
   SALES AREA OR TERRITORY. An exclusive geographic area or territory that is
assigned to a particular A or B permit holder and that either has one or more
political subdivisions as its boundaries or consists of an area of land with
readily identifiable geographic boundaries. The term does not include, however,
any particular retail location in an exclusive geographic area or territory
that had been assigned to another A or B permit holder before April 9, 2001.
   SEALED CONTAINER. Any container having a capacity of not more than 128 fluid
ounces, the opening of which is closed to prevent the entrance of air.
   SPIRITUOUS LIQUOR. All intoxicating liquors containing more than 21% of
alcohol by volume. The phrase does not include the contents of a pod.
   VEHICLE. All means of transportation by land, by water, or by air, and
everything made use of in any way for such transportation.
   WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTOR and DISTRIBUTOR. A person engaged in the business of
selling to retail dealers for purposes of resale.
   WINE. All liquids fit to use for beverage purposes containing not less than
0.5% of alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of alcohol by volume, that is
made from the fermented juices of grapes, fruits, or other agricultural
products. The term includes cider, except as used in R.C. §§ 4301.13, 4301.421,
4301.422, 4301.432, and 4301.44, and, for purposes of determining the rate of
the tax that applies, R.C. § 4301.43(B), the term does not include cider.
(R.C. §§ 4301.01, 4301.244)
§ 91.02 EXEMPTIONS FROM CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter do not prevent the following:
   (A)   The storage of intoxicating liquor in bonded warehouses, established
in accordance with the Acts of Congress and under the regulation of the United
States, located in the municipality, or the transportation of intoxicating
liquor to or from bonded warehouses of the United States wherever located.
   (B)   A bona fide resident of this state who is the owner of a warehouse
receipt from obtaining or transporting to the resident’s residence for the
resident’s own consumption and not for resale spirituous liquor stored in a
government bonded warehouse in this state or in another state prior to December
1933, subject to such terms as are prescribed by the Division of Liquor
Control.
   (C)   The manufacture of cider from fruit for the purpose of making vinegar,
and nonintoxicating cider and fruit juices for use and sale.
   (D)   A licensed physician or dentist from administering or dispensing
intoxicating liquor or alcohol to a patient in good faith in the actual course
of the practice of the physician’s or dentist’s profession.
   (E)   The sale of alcohol to physicians, dentists, druggists, veterinary
surgeons, manufacturers, hospitals, infirmaries, or medical or educational
institutions using the alcohol for medicinal, mechanical, chemical or
scientific purposes.
   (F)   The sale, gift, or keeping for sale by druggists and others of any of
the medicinal preparations manufactured in accordance with the formulas
prescribed by the United States Pharmacopoeia and National Formulary, patent or
proprietary preparations, and other bona fide medicinal and technical
preparations, which contain no more alcohol than is necessary to hold the
medicinal agents in solution and to preserve the same, which are manufactured
and sold as medicines and not as beverages, are unfit for use for beverage
purposes, and the sale of which does not require the payment of a United States
liquor dealer’s tax.
   (G)   The manufacture and sale of tinctures or of toilet, medicinal and
antiseptic preparations and solutions not intended for internal human use nor
to be sold as beverages, and which are unfit for beverage purposes, if upon the
outside of each bottle, box, or package of which there is printed in English,
conspicuously and legibly, the quantity by volume of alcohol in the preparation
or solution.
   (H)   The manufacture and keeping for sale of the food products known as
flavoring extracts when manufactured and sold for cooking, culinary or
flavoring purposes, and which are unfit for use for beverage purposes.
   (I)   The lawful sale of wood alcohol or of ethyl alcohol for external use
when combined with other substances as to make it unfit for internal use.
   (J)   The manufacture, sale, and transport of ethanol or ethyl alcohol for
use as fuel. As used in this division, ETHANOL has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 122.075.
   (K)   The purchase and importation into the municipality or the purchase at
wholesale from A or B permit holders in this state of beer and intoxicating
liquor for use in manufacturing processes of non-beverage food products under
terms prescribed by the Division, provided that the terms prescribed by the
Division shall not increase the cost of the beer or intoxicating liquor to any
person, firm or corporation purchasing and importing it into this municipality
or purchasing it from an A or B permit holder for that use.
   (L)   Any resident of this state or any member of the armed forces of the
United States who has attained the age of 21 years from bringing into this
municipality for personal use and not for resale not more than one liter of
spirituous liquor, 4.5 liters of wine, or 288 ounces of beer in any 30-day
period, and the same is free of any tax consent fee when the resident or member
of the armed forces physically possesses and accompanies the spirituous liquor,
wine or beer on returning from a foreign country, another state, or an insular
possession of the United States.
   (M)   Persons at least 21 years of age who collect ceramic commemorative
bottles containing spirituous liquor that have unbroken federal tax stamps on
them from selling or trading the bottles to other collectors. The bottles shall
originally have been purchased at retail from the Division, legally imported
under division (L) of this section, or legally imported pursuant to a supplier
registration issued by the Division. The sales shall be for the purpose of
exchanging a ceramic commemorative bottle between private collectors and shall
not be for the purpose of selling the spirituous liquor for personal
consumption. The sale or exchange authorized by this division shall not occur
on the premises of any permit holder, shall not be made in connection with the
business of any permit holder, and shall not be made in connection with any
mercantile business.
   (N)   The sale of beer or intoxicating liquor without a liquor permit at a
private residence, not more than five times per calendar year at a residence
address, at an event that has the following characteristics:
      (1)   The event is for a charitable, benevolent, or political purpose,
but shall not include any event the proceeds of which are for the profit or
gain of any individual;
      (2)   The event has in attendance not more than 50 people;
      (3)   The event shall be for a period not to exceed 12 hours;
      (4)   The sale of beer and intoxicating liquor at the event shall not
take place between 2:30 a.m. and 5:30 a.m.;
      (5)   No person under 21 years of age shall purchase or consume beer or
intoxicating liquor at the event and no beer or intoxicating liquor shall be
sold to any person under 21 years of age at the event; and
      (6)   No person at the event shall sell or furnish beer or intoxicating
liquor to an intoxicated person.
   (O)   The possession or consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor by a
person who is under 21 years of age and who is a student at an accredited
college or university, provided that both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person is required to taste and expectorate the beer or
intoxicating liquor for a culinary, food service, or hospitality course.
      (2)   The person is under the direct supervision of the instructor of the
culinary, food service, or hospitality course.
(R.C. § 4301.20)
§ 91.03 RESTRICTIONS APPLICABLE TO SALE OF BEER AND INTOXICATING LIQUOR FOR
CONSUMPTION ON THE PREMISES.
   (A)   The sale of beer or intoxicating liquor for consumption on the
premises is subject to the following restrictions, in addition to those imposed
by the rules and orders of the Division of Liquor Control:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter
4301, beer or intoxicating liquor may be served to a person not seated at a
table unless there is reason to believe that the beer or intoxicating liquor so
served will be consumed by a person under 21 years of age.
      (2)   Beer or intoxicating liquor may be served by a hotel in the room of
a bona fide guest, and may be sold by a hotel holding a D-5a permit, or a hotel
holding a D-3 or D-5 permit that otherwise meets all of the requirements for
holding a D-5a permit, by means of a controlled access alcohol and beverage
cabinet that shall be located only in the hotel room of a registered guest. A
hotel may sell beer or intoxicating liquor as authorized by its permit to a
registered guest by means of a controlled access alcohol and beverage cabinet
in accordance with the following requirements:
         (a)   Only a person 21 years of age or older who is a guest registered
to stay in a guestroom shall be provided a key, magnetic card, or other similar
device necessary to obtain access to the contents of a controlled access
alcohol and beverage cabinet in that guestroom.
         (b)   The hotel shall comply with R.C. § 4301.22, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, in connection with the handling, restocking,
and replenishing of the beer and intoxicating liquor in the controlled access
alcohol and beverage cabinet.
         (c)   The hotel shall replenish or restock beer and intoxicating
liquor in any controlled access alcohol and beverage cabinet only during the
hours during which the hotel may serve or sell beer and intoxicating liquor.
         (d)   The registered guest shall verify in writing that the guest has
read and understands the language that shall be posted on the controlled access
alcohol and beverage cabinet as required by division (A)(2)(e) of this section.
         (e)   A hotel authorized to sell beer and intoxicating liquor pursuant
to division (A)(2) of this section shall post on the controlled access alcohol
and beverage cabinet, in conspicuous language, the following notice:
   The alcoholic beverages contained in this cabinet shall not be removed from
the premises.
         (f)   The hotel shall maintain a record of each sale of beer or
intoxicating liquor made by the hotel by means of a controlled access alcohol
and beverage cabinet for any period in which the permit holder is authorized to
hold the permit pursuant to R.C. §§ 4303.26 and 4303.27 and any additional
period during which an applicant exercises its right to appeal a rejection by
the Division of Liquor Control to renew a permit pursuant to R.C. § 4303.271.
The records maintained by the hotel shall comply with both of the following:
            1.   Include the name, address, age, and signature of each hotel
guest who is provided access by the hotel to a controlled access alcohol and
beverage cabinet pursuant to division (A)(2)(a) of this section;
            2.   Be made available during business hours to authorized agents
of the Division of Liquor Control pursuant to R.C. § 4301.10(A)(6) or to
enforcement agents of the Department of Public Safety pursuant to R.C. §§
5502.13 through 5502.19.
         (g)   The hotel shall observe all other applicable rules adopted by
the Division of Liquor Control and the Liquor Control Commission.
      (3)   The seller shall not require the purchase of food with the purchase
of beer or intoxicating liquor; nor shall the seller of beer or intoxicating
liquor give away food of any kind in connection with the sale of beer or
intoxicating liquor, except as authorized by rule of the state Liquor Control
Commission.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 4301.62(C)(8), the seller
shall not permit the purchaser to remove beer or intoxicating liquor so sold
from the premises.
      (5)   A hotel authorized to sell beer and intoxicating liquor pursuant to
division (A)(2) of this section shall provide a registered guest with the
opportunity to refuse to accept a key, magnetic card, or other similar device
necessary to obtain access to the contents of a controlled access alcohol and
beverage cabinet in that guest room. If a registered guest refuses to accept
such key, magnetic card, or other similar device, the hotel shall not assess
any charges on the registered guest for use of the controlled access alcohol
and beverage cabinet in that guest room.
(R.C. § 4301.21)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 91.04 RESTRICTIONS ON SALE OF BEER AND LIQUOR.
   (A)   Restrictions on sales. Sales of beer and intoxicating liquor under all
classes of permits and from liquor stores are subject to the following
restrictions, in addition to those imposed by the rules or orders of the state
Division of Liquor Control.
      (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C.
Chapter 4301, no beer or intoxicating liquor shall be sold to any person under
21 years of age.
         (b)   No low-alcohol beverage shall be sold to any person under 18
years of age. No permit issued by the Division shall be suspended, revoked, or
cancelled because of a violation of this division (A)(1)(b).
         (c)   Except as provided in division (A)(1)(d) of this section, all of
the following apply to the handling, serving, and selling of beer and
intoxicating liquor by a person employed by a permit holder:
            1.   No person under 19 years of age shall sell beer across a bar.
            2.   No person under 21 years of age shall sell wine, mixed
beverages, or spirituous liquor across a bar.
            3.   No person under 18 years of age shall otherwise handle, serve,
or sell beer or intoxicating liquor.
         (d)   Any person employed by a permit holder may handle beer or
intoxicating liquor in sealed containers in connection with manufacturing,
storage, warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading, and
may handle beer or intoxicating liquor in open containers in connection with
cleaning tables or handling empty bottles or glasses.
      (2)   No permit holder and no agent or employee of a permit holder shall
sell or furnish beer or intoxicating liquor to an intoxicated person.
      (3)   (a)   No sales of intoxicating liquor shall be made after 2:30 a.m.
on Sunday, except under either of the following circumstances:
            1.   Intoxicating liquor may be sold on Sunday under authority of a
permit that authorizes Sunday sale.
            2.   Spiritous liquor may be sold on Sunday by any person awarded
an agency contract under R.C. § 4301.17 if the sale of spiritous liquor is
authorized in the applicable precinct as the result of an election on question
(B)(1) or (B)(2) of R.C. § 4301.351 and if the agency contract authorizes the
sale of spiritous liquor on Sunday.
         (b)   This section does not prevent the municipality from adopting a
closing hour for the sale of intoxicating liquor earlier than 2:30 a.m. on
Sunday or to provide that no intoxicating liquor may be sold prior to that hour
on Sunday.
      (4)   (a)   No holder of a permit shall give away any beer or
intoxicating liquor of any kind at any time in connection with the permit
holder’s business. However, with the exception of an A-1-A permit holder that
also has been issued an A-2 or A-2f permit, an A-1-A, A-1c, or D permit holder
may provide to a paying customer not more than a total of four tasting samples
of beer, wine, or spirituous liquor, as authorized by the applicable permit, in
any twenty-four-hour period. The permit holder shall provide the tasting
samples free of charge, at the permit holder’s expense, only to a person who is
21 years of age or older. The person shall consume the tasting samples on the
premises of the permit holder. A distributor is not responsible for the costs
of providing tasting samples authorized under division (A)(4) of this section.
         (b)   As used in division (A)(4) of this section:
            TASTING SAMPLE. Means one of the following, as applicable:
               a.   An amount not to exceed two ounces of beer;
               b.   An amount not to exceed two ounces of wine;
               c.   An amount not to exceed a quarter ounce of spirituous
liquor.
            D PERMIT HOLDER. Means a person that has been issued a D-1, D-2, D-
2x, D-3, D-3a, D-3 x, D-4, D-5, D-5a, D-5c, D-5d, D-5e, D-5f, D-5g, D-5h, D-5i,
D-5j, D-5k, D-5l, D-5m, D-5n, D-5o, D-6, or D-7 permit.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, no retail permit
holder shall display or permit the display on the outside of any licensed
retail premises, on any lot of ground on which the licensed premises are
situated, or on the exterior of any building of which the licensed premises are
a part, any sign, illustration, or advertisement bearing the name, brand name,
trade name, trademark, designation, or other emblem of, or indicating the
manufacturer, producer, distributor, place of manufacture, production, or
distribution of, any beer or intoxicating liquor. Signs, illustrations, or
advertisements bearing the name, brand name, trade name, trademark,
designation, or other emblem of or indicating the manufacturer, producer,
distributor, place of manufacture, production, or distribution of beer or
intoxicating liquor may be displayed and permitted to be displayed on the
interior or in the show windows of any licensed premises, if the particular
brand or type of product so advertised is actually available for sale on the
premises at the time of that display. The Liquor Control Commission shall
determine by rule the size and character of those signs, illustrations, or
advertisements.
      (6)   No retail permit holder shall possess on the licensed premises any
barrel or other container from which beer is drawn, unless there is attached to
the spigot or other dispensing apparatus the name of the manufacturer of the
product contained in the barrel or other container, provided that, if the beer
is served at a bar, the manufacturer’s name or brand shall appear in full view
of the purchaser. The Commission shall regulate the size and character of the
devices provided for in this section.
      (7)   The sale of gift certificates for the purchase of beer, wine, or
mixed beverages shall be permitted for the purchase of beer, wine, or mixed
beverages for on- or off-premises consumption. Limitations on the use of a gift
certificate for the purchase of beer, wine, or mixed beverages for on- or off-
premises consumption may be expressed by clearly stamping or typing on the face
of the certificate that the certificate may not be used for the purchase of
beer, wine, or mixed beverages for on-premises consumption.
(R.C. § 4301.22)
   (B)   Division (A)(1) not modified or affected. The provisions of R.C. §§
4301.633 through 4301.637, or substantially equivalent municipal ordinances,
shall not be deemed to modify or affect division (A)(1) of this section or R.C.
§ 4301.22(A).
(R.C. § 4301.638)
   (C)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates divisions (A)(1)(b) or (A)(3) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates divisions (A)(1)(a), (A)(1)(c) or (A)(2) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(D), (H))
Statutory reference:
    Suspension of beer and liquor sales during emergency, see R.C. § 4301.251
 § 91.05 PERMIT REQUIRED; ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED WITHOUT PERMIT.
   (A)   Permit required.
      (1)   No person personally or by the person’s clerk, agent, or employee,
shall manufacture, manufacture for sale, offer, keep, or possess for sale,
furnish or sell, or solicit the purchase or sale of any beer or intoxicating
liquor in this state, or transport, import, or cause to be transported or
imported any beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol in or into this municipality
for delivery, use or sale, unless the person has fully complied with R.C.
Chapters 4301 and 4303 or is the holder of a permit issued by the Division of
Liquor Control and in force at the time.
      (2)   No manufacturer, supplier, wholesale distributor, broker, or
retailer of beer or intoxicating liquor, or other person shall employ, retain,
or otherwise utilize any person in this state to act as an employee, agent,
solicitor, or salesperson, or act in any other representative capacity to sell,
solicit, take orders, or receive offers to purchase or expressions of interest
to purchase beer or intoxicating liquor from any person, at any location other
than a liquor permit premises, except as specifically authorized by R.C.
Chapter 4301 or R.C. Chapter 4303 or rules adopted thereunder. No function,
event, or party shall take place at any location other than a liquor permit
premises where any person acts in any manner to sell, solicit, take orders, or
receive offers to purchase or expressions of intent to purchase beer or
intoxicating liquor to or from any person, except as specifically authorized by
R.C. Chapter 4301 or R.C. Chapter 4303 or rules adopted thereunder.
(R.C. § 4303.25)
   (B)   Activities prohibited without permit.
      (1)   As used in this division (B):
         CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. An organization described under section 501
(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code and exempt from federal income taxation
under section 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code.
         FUNDRAISER. Means a raffle, silent auction, or event where a door
prize is awarded.
         POLITICAL ORGANIZATION. Means a political organization defined under
section 527 of the Internal Revenue Code.
         RAFFLE. Means a raffle conducted in accordance with R.C. Chapter 2915.
         SILENT AUCTION. Means a method of submitting bids in writing by one or
more persons and, after a review of all the bids received, personal property is
awarded to the highest and most responsive bidder.
      (2)   No person, personally or by the person’s clerk, agent, or employee,
who is not the holder of an A permit issued by the Ohio Division of Liquor
Control, in force at the time, and authorizing the manufacture of beer or
intoxicating liquor, or who is not an agent or employee of the Division
authorized to manufacture such beer or intoxicating liquor, shall manufacture
any beer or intoxicating liquor for sale, or shall manufacture spirituous
liquor.
      (3)   No person, personally or by the person’s clerk, agent, or employee,
who is not the holder of an A, B, C, D, E, F, G, I, or S permit issued by the
Division, in force at the time, and authorizing the sale of beer, intoxicating
liquor, or alcohol, or who is not an agent or employee of the Division or the
Tax Commissioner authorized to sell such beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol,
shall sell, keep, or possess beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol for sale to
any persons other than those authorized by R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303 to
purchase any beer or intoxicating liquor, or sell any alcohol at retail.
      (4)   No person, personally or by the person’s clerk, agent, or employee,
who is the holder of a permit issued by the Division, shall sell, keep, or
possess for sale any intoxicating liquor not purchased from the Division or
from the holder of a permit issued by the Division authorizing the sale of such
intoxicating liquor unless the same has been purchased with the special consent
of the Division. The Division shall revoke the permit of any person convicted
of a violation of division (B)(3) of this section.
      (5)   Division (B)(3) of this section does not apply to either of the
following:
         (a)   The sale or possession for sale of any low-alcohol beverage;
         (b)   Beer and intoxicating liquor that is given away if all of the
following apply:
            1.   The beer or intoxicating liquor is given away by a charitable
or political organization to a participant in a fundraiser.
            2.   Any beer, wine, or mixed beverages given away via the
fundraiser is purchased from a person issued a permit under R.C. Chapter 4303.
            3.   Any spirituous liquor given away via the fundraiser is
purchased from an agency store located in this state.
            4.   Regarding any spirituous liquor donated to the charitable or
political organization for purposes of the fundraiser, the donor is not an
agency store located in this state and submits to the charitable or political
organization receipts showing that the donor purchased the spirituous liquor
from an agency store located in this state.
            5.   The charitable or political organization submits purchase
receipts for the spirituous liquor given away via a fundraiser to the Division
of Liquor Control as proof that the spirituous liquor was purchased from an
agency store located in this state. The charitable or political organization
shall submit the receipts in accordance with procedures that the Division shall
establish.
(R.C. § 4301.58)
   (C)   Penalty. Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 91.06 ILLEGAL TRANSPORTATION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, who is not the holder of an H permit shall transport beer,
intoxicating liquor, or alcohol in this municipality. This section does not
apply to the transportation and delivery of beer, alcohol, or intoxicating
liquor purchased or to be purchased from the holder of a permit issued by the
Division of Liquor Control, in force at the time, and authorizing the sale and
delivery of the beer, alcohol, or intoxicating liquor so transported, or to the
transportation and delivery of beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol purchased
from the Department or the Tax Commissioner, or purchased by the holder of an A
or B permit outside this state, and transported within this municipality by
them in their own trucks for the purpose of sale under their permits.
(R.C. § 4301.60)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 91.07 OPEN CONTAINER PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE. Means a vehicle registered under R.C. § 4503.24.
      HIGHWAY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      STREET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   (B)   No person shall have in the person’s possession an opened container of
beer or intoxicating liquor in any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(1)(e) of this section, in a
state liquor store;
      (2)   Except as provided in division (C) or (J) of this section, on the
premises of the holder of any permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control;
      (3)   In any other public place;
      (4)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, while
operating or being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on any street, highway,
or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking;
      (5)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, while
being in or on a stationary motor vehicle on any street, highway, or other
public or private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking.
   (C)   (1)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened container
of any of the following:
         (a)   Beer or intoxicating liquor that has been lawfully purchased for
consumption on the premises where bought from the holder of an A-1-A, A-2, A-
2f, A-3a, D-1, D-2, D-3, D-3a, D-4, D-4a, D-5, D-5a, D-5b, D-5c, D-5d, D-5e, D-
5f, D-5g, D-5h, D-5i, D-5j, D-5k, D-5l, D-5m, D-5n, D-5o, D-7, D-8, D-9, E, F,
F-2, F-5, F-7, or F-8 permit;
         (b)   Beer, wine, or mixed beverages served for consumption on the
premises by the holder of an F-3 permit, wine served as a tasting sample by an
A-2, A-2f, S-1, or S-2 permit holder for consumption on the premises of a
farmers market for which an F-10 permit has been issued, or wine served for
consumption on the premises by the holder of an F-4 or F-6 permit;
         (c)   Beer or intoxicating liquor consumed on the premises of a
convention facility as provided in R.C. § 4303.201;
         (d)   Beer or intoxicating liquor to be consumed during tastings and
samplings approved by rule of the Liquor Control Commission;
         (e)   Spiritous liquor to be consumed for purposes of a tasting
sample, as defined in R.C. § 4301.171;
         (f)   Beer or intoxicating liquor to be consumed in an outdoor area
described in R.C. § 4303.188(B)(1).
      (2)   A person may have in the person’s possession on an F liquor permit
premises an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor that was not
purchased from the holder of the F permit if the premises for which the F
permit is issued is a music festival and the holder of the F permit grants
permission for that possession on the premises during the period for which the
F permit is issued. As used in this division (C)(2), MUSIC FESTIVAL means a
series of outdoor live musical performances extending for a period of at least
three consecutive days and located on an area of land of at least 40 acres.
      (3)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on a D-2 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of wine that was not purchased
from the holder of the D-2 permit if the premises for which the D-2 permit is
issued is an outdoor performing arts center, the person is attending an
orchestral performance, and the holder of the D-2 permit grants permission for
the possession and consumption of wine in certain predesignated areas of the
premises during the period for which the D-2 permit is issued.
         (b)   As used in division (C)(3)(a) of this section:
            ORCHESTRAL PERFORMANCE. Means a concert comprised of a group of not
fewer than 40 musicians playing various musical instruments.
            OUTDOOR PERFORMING ARTS CENTER. Means an outdoor performing arts
center that is located on not less than 150 acres of land and that is open for
performances from the first day of April to the last day of October of each
year.
      (4)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened or unopened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location at which the
person is attending an orchestral performance as defined in division (C)(3)(b)
of this section if the person with supervision and control over the performance
grants permission for the possession and consumption of beer or intoxicating
liquor in certain predesignated areas of that outdoor location.
      (5)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on an F-9 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
that was not purchased from the holder of the F-9 permit if the person is
attending either of the following:
            1.   An orchestral performance and the F-9 permit holder grants
permission for the possession and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor in
certain predesignated areas of the premises during the period for which the F-
9 permit is issued;
            2.   An outdoor performing arts event or orchestral performance
that is free of charge and the F-9 permit holder annually hosts not less than
25 other events or performances that are free of charge on the permit premises.
         (b)   As used in division (C)(5) of this section, ORCHESTRAL
PERFORMANCE has the same meaning as in division (C)(3)(b) of this section.
      (6)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on the property
of an outdoor motorsports facility an opened or unopened container of beer or
intoxicating liquor that was not purchased from the owner of the facility if
both of the following apply:
            1.   The person is attending a racing event at the facility; and
            2.   The owner of the facility grants permission for the possession
and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor on the property of the facility.
         (b)   As used in division (C)(6)(a) of this section:
            OUTDOOR MOTORSPORTS FACILITY. An outdoor racetrack to which all of
the following apply:
               a.   It is 2.4 miles or more in length.
               b.   It is located on 200 acres or more of land.
               c.   The primary business of the owner of the facility is the
hosting and promoting of racing events.
               d.   The holder of a D-1, D-2, or D-3 permit is located on the
property of the facility.
            RACING EVENT. A motor vehicle racing event sanctioned by one or
more motor racing sanctioning organizations.
      (7)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location within an
outdoor refreshment area created under R.C. § 4301.82 if the opened container
of beer or intoxicating liquor was purchased from an A-1, A-1-A, A-1c, A-2, A-
2f, D class, or F class permit holder to which both of the following apply:
            1.   The permit holder’s premises is located within the outdoor
refreshment area.
            2.   The permit held by the permit holder has an outdoor
refreshment area designation.
         (b)   Division (C)(7) of this section does not authorize a person to
do either of the following:
            1.   Enter the premises of an establishment within an outdoor
refreshment area while possessing an opened container of beer or intoxicating
liquor acquired elsewhere;
            2.   Possess an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
while being in or on a motor vehicle within an outdoor refreshment area, unless
the possession is otherwise authorized under division (D) or (E) of this
section.
         (c)   As used in division (C)(7) of this section, “D class permit
holder” does not include a D-6 or D-8 permit holder.
      (8)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on the property
of a market, within a defined F-8 permit premises, an opened container of beer
or intoxicating liquor that was purchased from a D permit premises that is
located immediately adjacent to the market if both of the following apply:
            1.   The market grants permission for the possession and
consumption of beer and intoxicating liquor within the defined F-8 permit
premises;
            2.   The market is hosting an event pursuant to an F-8 permit and
the market has notified the division of liquor control about the event in
accordance with R.C. § 4303.208(A)(3).
         (b)   As used in division (C)(8) of this section, MARKET means a
market, for which an F-8 permit is held, that has been in operation since 1860.
   (D)   This section does not apply to a person who pays all or a portion of
the fee imposed for use of a chauffeured limousine pursuant to a prearranged
contract or the guest of the person, when all of the following apply:
      (1)   The person or guest is a passenger in the limousine.
      (2)   The person or guest is located in the limousine, but is not
occupying a seat in the front compartment of the limousine where the operator
of the limousine is located.
      (3)   The limousine is located on any street, highway, or other public or
private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking.
   (E)   An opened bottle of wine that was purchased from the holder of a
permit that authorizes the sale of wine for consumption on the premises where
sold is not an opened container for the purposes of this section if both of the
following apply:
      (1)   The opened bottle of wine is securely resealed by the permit holder
or an employee of the permit holder before the bottle is removed from the
premises. The bottle shall be secured in such a manner that it is visibly
apparent if the bottle has been subsequently opened or tampered with.
      (2)   The opened bottle of wine that is resealed in accordance with
division (E)(1) of this section is stored in the trunk of a motor vehicle or,
if the motor vehicle does not have a trunk, behind the last upright seat or in
an area not normally occupied by the driver or passengers and not easily
accessible by the driver.
   (F)   (1)   Except if an ordinance or resolution is enacted or adopted under
division (F)(2) of this section, this section does not apply to a person who,
pursuant to a prearranged contract, is a passenger riding on a commercial
quadricycle when all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person is not occupying a seat in the front of the
commercial quadricycle where the operator is steering or braking.
         (b)   The commercial quadricycle is being operated on a street,
highway, or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking.
         (c)   The person has in their possession on the commercial quadricycle
an opened container of beer or wine.
         (d)   The person has in their possession on the commercial quadricycle
not more than either 36 ounces of beer or 18 ounces of wine.
      (2)   The Legislative Authority may enact an ordinance or adopt a
resolution, as applicable, that prohibits a passenger riding on a commercial
quadricycle from possessing an opened container of beer or wine.
      (3)   As used in this section, COMMERCIAL QUADRICYCLE means a vehicle
that has fully-operative pedals for propulsion entirely by human power and that
meets all of the following requirements:
         (a)   It has four wheels and is operated in a manner similar to a
bicycle.
         (b)   It has at least five seats for passengers.
         (c)   It is designed to be powered by the pedaling of the operator and
the passengers.
         (d)   It is used for commercial purposes.
         (e)   It is operated by the vehicle owner or an employee of the owner.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person that has in the person’s
possession an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor on the premises
of a market if the beer or intoxicating liquor has been purchased from a D
liquor permit holder that is located in the market.
      (2)   As used in division (G) of this section, MARKET means an
establishment that:
         (a)   Leases space in the market to individual vendors, not less than
50% of which are retail food establishments or food service operations licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3717;
         (b)   Has an indoor sales floor area of not less than 22,000 square
feet;
         (c)   Hosts a farmer’s market on each Saturday from April through
December.
   (H)   (1)   As used in this section, ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE has the same meaning
as in R.C. § 4303.185.
      (2)   An alcoholic beverage in a closed container being transported under
R.C. § 4303.185 to its final destination is not an opened container for the
purposes of this section if the closed container is securely sealed in such a
manner that it is visibly apparent if the closed container has been
subsequently opened or tampered with after sealing.
   (I)   This section does not apply to a person who has in the person’s
possession an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor in a public-use
airport, as described in R.C. § 4303.181(D)(2)(a)(iii), when both of the
following apply:
      (1)   Consumption of the opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
occurs in the area of the airport terminal that is restricted to persons taking
flights to and from the airport; and
      (2)   The consumption is authorized under R.C. § 4303.181(D)(2)(a).
   (J)   This section does not apply to a person that has in the person’s
possession an opened container of homemade beer or wine that is served in
accordance with R.C. § 4301.201(E).
(R.C. § 4301.62)
   (K)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4301.99(A))
§ 91.08 UNDERAGE PERSON SHALL NOT PURCHASE INTOXICATING LIQUOR OR BEER.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person under the age of 21 years shall purchase beer or intoxicating liquor.
(R.C. § 4301.63)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $25 nor
more than $100. The court imposing a fine for a violation of this section may
order that the fine be paid by the performance of public work at a reasonable
hour rate established by the court. The court shall designate the time within
which the public work shall be completed.
(R.C. § 4301.99(E))
§ 91.09 PROHIBITIONS; MINORS UNDER 18 YEARS; LOW-ALCOHOL BEVERAGES.
   (A)   As used in this section, UNDERAGE PERSON means a person under 18 years
of age.
   (B)   No underage person shall purchase any low-alcohol beverage.
   (C)   No underage person shall order, pay for, share the cost of, or attempt
to purchase any low-alcohol beverage.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly furnish any false information as to the
name, age, or other identification of any underage person for the purpose of
obtaining or with the intent to obtain any low- alcohol beverage for an
underage person, by purchase or as a gift.
   (E)   No underage person shall knowingly show or give false information
concerning his or her name, age, or other identification for the purpose of
purchasing or otherwise obtaining any low-alcohol beverage in any place in this
municipality.
   (F)   No person shall sell or furnish any low-alcohol beverage to, or buy
any low-alcohol beverage for, an underage person, unless given by a physician
in the regular line of his or her practice or given for established religious
purposes, or unless the underage person is accompanied by a parent, spouse who
is not an underage person, or legal guardian.
   (G)   (1)   No person who is the owner or occupant of any public or private
place shall knowingly allow any underage person to remain in or on the place
while possessing or consuming any low-alcohol beverage, unless the low-alcohol
beverage is given to the person possessing or consuming it by that person’s
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, and the
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian is present when
the person possesses or consumes the low-alcohol beverage.
      (2)   An owner of a public or private place is not liable for acts or
omissions in violation of division (G)(1) that are committed by a lessee of
that place, unless the owner authorizes or acquiesces in the lessee’s acts or
omissions.
   (H)   No permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control shall be suspended,
revoked, or cancelled because of a violation of either division (F) or (G).
   (I)   No underage person shall knowingly possess or consume any low-alcohol
beverage in any public or private place, unless he or she is accompanied by a
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, or unless the
low-alcohol beverage is given by a physician in the regular line of his or her
practice or given for established religious purposes.
   (J)   No parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian of
an underage person shall knowingly permit the underage person to violate this
section.
(R.C. § 4301.631)
   (K)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of this section for which no
other penalty is provided is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section shall be fined not
less than $25 nor more than $100. The court imposing a fine for a violation of
division (B) of this section may order that the fine be paid by the performance
of public work at a reasonable hour rate established by the court. The court
shall designate the time within which the public work shall be completed.
(R.C. § 4301.99(E))
§ 91.10 ALCOHOL VAPORIZING DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section, ALCOHOL VAPORIZING DEVICE means a machine or
other device that mixes beer or intoxicating liquor with pure oxygen or any
other gas to produce a vaporized product for the purpose of consumption by
inhalation.
   (B)   No person shall sell or offer for sale an alcohol vaporizing device.
   (C)   No person shall purchase or use an alcohol vaporizing device.
(R.C. § 4301.65)
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
misdemeanor of the third degree. For a second or subsequent violation occurring
within a period of five consecutive years after the first violation, a person
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(J))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4301.99(A))
§ 91.11 MISREPRESENTATION TO OBTAIN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE FOR A MINOR PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person shall knowingly furnish any false information as to the name, age, or
other identification of any person under 21 years of age, for the purpose of
obtaining, or with the intent to obtain, beer or intoxicating liquor for a
person under 21 years of age, by purchase, or as a gift.
(R.C. § 4301.633)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 91.12 MISREPRESENTATION BY A MINOR UNDER 21 YEARS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person under the age of 21 years shall knowingly show or give false
information concerning his or her name, age, or other identification for the
purpose of purchasing or otherwise obtaining beer or intoxicating liquor in any
place in this municipality where beer or intoxicating liquor is sold under a
permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control, or sold by the Division of
Liquor Control.
(R.C. § 4301.634)
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If, in committing a first violation of
division (A), the offender presented to the permit holder or his or her
employee or agent a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false
or fictitious driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s
license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than $250 and not
more than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more
than six months.
      (2)   On a second violation in which, for the second time, the offender
presented to the permit holder or his or her employee or agent a false,
fictitious, or altered identification card, a false or fictitious driver’s
license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s license issued by any
state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree and shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000, and
may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than six months. The
court also may impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operation privilege from
the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
      (3)   On a third or subsequent violation in which, for the third or
subsequent time, the offender presented to the permit holder or his or her
employee or agent a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false
or fictitious driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s
license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than $500 nor more
than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than
six months. Except as provided in this division, the court also may impose a
class six suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or permit or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. §
4510.02(A)(6), and the court may order that the suspension or denial remain in
effect until the offender attains the age of 21 years. The court, in lieu of
suspending the offender’s temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s
license, or driver’s license, instead may order the offender to perform a
determinate number of hours of community service, with the court determining
the actual number of hours and the nature of the community service the offender
shall perform.
(R.C. § 4301.99(F))
§ 91.13 SALE TO UNDERAGE PERSONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person shall sell beer or intoxicating liquor to an underage person, shall
buy beer or intoxicating liquor for an underage person, or shall furnish it to
an underage person unless given by a physician in the regular line of the
physician’s practice or given for established religious purposes or unless the
underage person is supervised by a parent, spouse who is not an underage
person, or legal guardian. In proceedings before the Liquor Control Commission,
no permit holder, or no employee or agent of a permit holder, charged with a
violation of this division shall be charged, for the same offense, with a
violation of R.C. § 4301.22(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (B)   No person who is the owner or occupant of any public or private place
shall knowingly allow any underage person to remain in or on the place while
possessing or consuming beer or intoxicating liquor, unless the intoxicating
liquor or beer is given to the person possessing or consuming it by that
person’s parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian and
the parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian is present
at the time of the person’s possession or consumption of the beer or
intoxicating liquor. An owner of a public or private place is not liable for
acts or omissions in violation of this division that are committed by a lessee
of that place, unless the owner authorizes or acquiesces in the lessee’s acts
or omissions.
   (C)   No person shall engage or use accommodations at a hotel, inn, cabin,
campground, or restaurant when the person knows or has reason to know either of
the following:
      (1)   That beer or intoxicating liquor will be consumed by an underage
person on the premises of the accommodations that the person engages or uses,
unless the person engaging or using the accommodations is the spouse of the
underage person and who is not an underage person, or is the parent or legal
guardian of all of the underage persons, who consume beer or intoxicating
liquor on the premises and that person is on the premises at all times when
beer or intoxicating liquor is being consumed by an underage person.
      (2)   That a drug of abuse will be consumed on the premises of the
accommodations by any person, except a person who obtained the drug of abuse
pursuant to a prescription issued by a licensed health professionals authorized
to prescribe drugs and has the drug of abuse in the original container in which
it was dispensed to the person.
   (D)   (1)   No person is required to permit the engagement of accommodations
at any hotel, inn, cabin, or campground by an underage person or for an
underage person, if the person engaging the accommodations knows or has reason
to know that the underage person is intoxicated, or that the underage person
possesses any beer or intoxicating liquor and is not supervised by a parent,
spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian who is or will be
present at all times when the beer or intoxicating liquor is being consumed by
the underage person.
      (2)   No underage person shall knowingly engage or attempt to engage
accommodations at any hotel, inn, cabin, or campground by presenting
identification that falsely indicates that the underage person is 21 years of
age or older for the purpose of violating this section.
   (E)   (1)   No underage person shall knowingly order, pay for, share the
cost of, attempt to purchase, possess, or consume any beer or intoxicating
liquor in any public or private place. No underage person shall knowingly be
under the influence of any beer or intoxicating liquor in any public place. The
prohibitions set forth in this division against an underage person knowingly
possessing, consuming, or being under the influence of any beer or intoxicating
liquor shall not apply if the underage person is supervised by a parent, spouse
who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, or the beer or intoxicating
liquor is given by a physician in the regular line of the physician’s practice
or given for established religious purposes.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is charged with violating division (E)(1) of this
section in a complaint filed under R.C. § 2151.27, the court may order the
child into a diversion program specified by the court and hold the complaint in
abeyance pending successful completion of the diversion program. A child is
ineligible to enter into a diversion program under this division if the child
previously has been diverted pursuant to this division. If the child completes
the diversion program to the satisfaction of the court, the court shall dismiss
the complaint and order the child’s record in the case sealed under R.C. §§
2151.356 through 2151.358. If the child fails to satisfactorily complete the
diversion program, the court shall proceed with the complaint.
         (b)   If a person is charged in a criminal complaint with violating
division (E)(1) of this section, R.C. § 2935.36 shall apply to the offense,
except that a person is ineligible for diversion under that section if the
person previously has been diverted pursuant to divisions (E)(2)(a) or (E)(2)
(b) of this section. If the person completes the diversion program to the
satisfaction of the court, the court shall dismiss the complaint and order the
record in the case sealed under R.C.§ 2953.33. If the person fails to
satisfactorily complete the diversion program, the court shall proceed with the
complaint.
   (F)   No parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian of
a minor shall knowingly permit the minor to violate this section or R.C. §
4301.63, 4301.633, or 4301.634, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (G)   The operator of any hotel, inn, cabin, or campground shall make the
provisions of this section available in writing to any person engaging or using
accommodations at the hotel, inn, cabin, or campground.
   (H)   As used in this section:
      DRUG OF ABUSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
      HOTEL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3731.01.
      LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS. Has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
      MINOR. Means a person under the age of 18 years.
      PRESCRIPTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
      UNDERAGE PERSON. Means a person under the age of 21 years.
(R.C. § 4301.69)
   (I)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4301.633 through 4301.637, or substantially
equivalent municipal ordinances, shall not be deemed to modify or affect
divisions (A) through (H) of this section or R.C. § 4301.69.
(R.C. § 4301.638)
   (J)   (1)   Whoever violates divisions (B), (C), (D), or (F) of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (E)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If an offender who violates division (E)(1) of
this section was under the age of 18 years at the time of the offense and the
offense occurred while the offender was the operator of or a passenger in a
motor vehicle, the court, in addition to any other penalties it imposes upon
the offender, shall suspend the offender’s temporary instruction permit or
probationary driver’s license for a period of not less than six months and not
more than one year. If the offender is 15 years and six months of age or older
and has not been issued a temporary instruction permit or probationary driver’s
license, the offender shall not be eligible to be issued such a license or
permit for a period of six months. If the offender has not attained the age of
15 years and six months, the offender shall not be eligible to be issued a
temporary instruction permit until the offender attains the age of 16 years.
(R.C. § 4301.99(D))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor, shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000, and in
addition to the fine, may be imprisoned for a definite term of not more than
six months.
(R.C. § 4301.99(I))
Statutory reference:
    Changes to law if federal uniform drinking age repealed or declared
unconstitutional, see R.C. § 4301.691
§ 91.14 POSTING OF CARD.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 4301.691, every place in
this municipality where beer, intoxicating liquor, or any low-alcohol beverage
is sold for beverage purposes shall display at all times, in a prominent place
on the premises thereof, a printed card, which shall be furnished by the
Division of Liquor Control and which shall read substantially as follows:
   WARNING TO PERSONS UNDER AGE
   If you are under the age of 21
   Under the statutes of the state of Ohio, if you order, pay for, share the
cost of, or attempt to purchase, or possess or consume beer or intoxicating
liquor in any public place, or furnish false information as to name, age, or
other identification, you are subject to a fine of up to $1,000, or
imprisonment up to 6 months, or both.
   If you are under the age of 18
   Under the statutes of the state of Ohio, if you order, pay for, share the
cost of, or attempt to purchase, or posses or consume, any type of beer or wine
that contains either no alcohol or less than one- half of one per cent of
alcohol by volume in any public place, or furnish false information as to the
name, age, or other identification, you are subject to a fine of up to $250 or
to imprisonment up to 30 days, or both.
      (2)   No person shall be subject to any criminal prosecution or any
proceedings before the Department or the Liquor Control Commission for failing
to display this card. No permit issued by the Department shall be suspended,
revoked, or canceled because of the failure of the permit holder to display
this card.
   (B)   (1)   Every place in this municipality for which a D permit has been
issued under R.C. Chapter 4303 shall be issued a printed card by the Division
of Liquor Control that shall read substantially as follows:
         WARNING
         If you are carrying a firearm
         Under the statutes of Ohio, if you possess a firearm in any room in
which liquor is being dispensed in premises for which a D permit has been
issued under Chapter 4303 of the Revised Code, you may be guilty of a felony
and may be subjected to a prison term of up to one year.
      (2)   No person shall be subject to any criminal prosecution or any
proceedings before the Division of Liquor Control or the Liquor Control
Commission for failing to display this card. No permit issued by the Department
shall be suspended, revoked, or canceled because of the failure of the permit
holder to display this card.
(R.C. § 4301.637) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
    Carrying concealed weapon, felony, see R.C. § 2923.12
    Possessing firearm in liquor permit premises, exceptions, defenses, see
R.C. § 2923.121
§ 91.15 GOOD FAITH ACCEPTANCES OF SPURIOUS IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   No permit holder, agent or employee of a permit holder, or any other
person may be found guilty of a violation of any section of this chapter in
which age is any element of the offense, if any court of record finds all of
the following:
      (1)   That the person buying, at the time of so doing, exhibited to the
permit holder, the agent or employee of the permit holder, or the other person
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card as defined
in R.C. § 4301.61, a military identification card issued by the United States
Department of Defense, or a United States or foreign passport, that displays a
picture of the individual for whom the license, card, or passport was issued
and shows that the person buying was then at least 21 years of age if the
person was buying beer as defined in R.C. § 4301.01 or intoxicating liquor, or
that the person was then at least 18 years of age if the person was buying any
low-alcohol beverage;
      (2)   That the permit holder, the agent or employee of the permit holder,
or the other person made a bona fide effort to ascertain the true age of the
person buying by checking the identification presented at the time of the
purchase to ascertain that the description on the identification compared with
the appearance of the buyer and that the identification presented had not been
altered in any way.
      (3)   That the permit holder, the agent or employee of the permit holder,
or the other person had reason to believe that the person buying was of legal
age.
   (B)   The defense provided by division (A) of this section is in addition to
the affirmative defense provided by §
91.29.
(R.C. § 4301.639(A), (C))
§ 91.16 CONSUMPTION IN MOTOR VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall consume any beer or intoxicating liquor in a motor
vehicle. This section does not apply to persons described in R.C. § 4301.62(D)
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 4301.64)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If an offender who violates this section was under the age of 18 years
at the time of the offense, the court, in addition to any other penalties it
imposes upon the offender, may suspend the offender’s temporary instruction
permit, probationary driver’s license or driver’s license for a period of not
less than six months and not more than one year. In lieu of suspending the
offender’s temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or
driver’s license, the court instead may require the offender to perform
community service for a number of hours determined by the court. If the
offender is 15 years and six months of age or older and has not been issued a
temporary instruction permit or probationary driver’s license, the offender
shall not be eligible to be issued such a license or permit for a period of six
months. If the offender has not attained the age of 15 years and six months,
the offender shall not be eligible to be issued a temporary instruction permit
until the offender attains the age of 16 years.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B))
§ 91.17 HOURS OF SALE OR CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   This section shall apply to the retail sale of beer, wine, mixed
beverages, or spirituous liquor.
   (B)   (1)   No beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor shall be
sold or delivered by an A-1, A-1C, A-2, B-1, B-2, B-4, B-5, C-1, C-2, C-2X, D-
1, D-2, D-2X, D-3 when issued without a D-3A, D-3X, D-4, D-5H, D-5K, D-8, F, F-
1, F-2, F-3, F-4, F-5, F-6, F-7, F-8, F-9, G, or I permit holder from Monday to
Saturday between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:30 a.m. and on Sunday between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and Sunday midnight, unless statutorily authorized
otherwise.
      (2)   Consumption of beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor is
also prohibited during the above hours upon the premises of the above permit
holders who are authorized by their permit to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages,
or spirituous liquor for on-premises consumption.
   (C)   (1)   No beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor shall be
sold or delivered by an A-1A, D-3 when issued with a D-3A, D-4A, D-5, D-5A, D-
5B, D-5C, D-5D, D-5E, D-5F, D-5G, D-5I, D-5J, D-5L, D-5M, D-5N, D-5O, or D-
7 permit holder from Monday to Saturday between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and 5:30
a.m. and on Sunday between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and Sunday midnight, unless
statutorily authorized otherwise.
      (2)   Consumption of beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor is
also prohibited during the above hours upon the premises of the above permit
holders who are authorized by their permit to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages,
or spirituous liquor for on-premises consumption.
   (D)   Permit holders authorized to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages, or
spirituous liquor at retail who are not specifically identified in divisions
(B) or (C) above shall be subject to the provisions of division (B), unless
statutorily authorized otherwise.
   (E)   The hours on Sunday during which sales, delivery, or consumption of
alcoholic beverages may take place are established by statute, but in no event
shall they begin prior to 5:30 a.m.
(O.A.C. § 4301:1-1-49)
   (F)   No association, corporation, local unit of an association or
corporation, or D permit holder who holds an F-2 permit shall sell beer or
intoxicating liquor beyond the hours of sale allowed by the permit. This
division imposes strict liability on the holder of such permit and on any
officer, agent or employee of such permit holder.
(R.C. § 4303.202(D)(2))
   (G)   No F-8 permit holder shall sell beer or intoxicating liquor beyond the
hours of sale allowed by the permit. This division imposes strict liability on
the holder of an F-8 permit and on any officer, agent or employee of that
permit holder.
(R.C. § 4303.208(C))
   (H)   Whoever violates divisions (F) or (G) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4303.99(D)) Penalty, see §
91.99 
§ 91.18 OBSTRUCTING SEARCH OF PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall hinder or obstruct any agent or employee of the
Division of Liquor Control, any enforcement agent of the Department of Public
Safety or any officer of the law from making an inspection or search of any
place, other than a bona fide private residence, where beer or intoxicating
liquor is possessed, kept, sold, or given away.
(R.C. § 4301.66)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance, or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
§ 91.19 ILLEGAL POSSESSION OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall have possession of any spirituous liquor, in excess of
one liter, in one or more containers, which was not purchased at wholesale or
retail from the Division of Liquor Control or otherwise lawfully acquired
pursuant to this chapter, R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, or any other
intoxicating liquor or beer, in one or more containers, which was not lawfully
acquired pursuant to those chapters.
(R.C. § 4301.67)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B))
§ 91.20 SALE OR POSSESSION OF DILUTED LIQUOR AND REFILLED CONTAINERS
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, or possess with the intent to
sell intoxicating liquor in any original container which has been diluted,
refilled, or partly refilled.
(R.C. § 4301.68)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 91.21 KEEPING PLACE WHERE BEER OR INTOXICATING LIQUORS ARE SOLD IN VIOLATION
OF LAW.
   (A)   No person shall keep a place where beer or intoxicating liquors are
sold, furnished, or given away in violation of law. The court, on conviction
for a subsequent violation of this section, shall order the place where the
beer or intoxicating liquor is sold, furnished, or given away to be abated as a
nuisance or shall order the person so convicted to give bond payable to the
state in the sum of $1,000, with sureties to the acceptance of the court, that
the person will not sell, furnish, or give away beer or intoxicating liquor in
violation of law and will pay all fines, costs, and damages assessed against
the person for that subsequent violation of this section. The giving away of
beer or intoxicating liquors, or any other device to evade this section,
constitutes unlawful selling.
   (B)   As used in this section, BEER has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4301.01.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any premises for which
a permit has been issued under R.C. Chapter 4303 while that permit is in
effect.
(R.C. § 4399.09)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $500 on a first offense and shall be fined not less than $200 nor
more than $500 on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4399.99(B))
§ 91.22 INTOXICATING LIQUORS SHALL NOT BE SOLD IN BROTHELS.
   (A)   No person shall sell, exchange, or give away intoxicating liquor in a
brothel.
(R.C. § 4399.10)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $500 and imprisoned not less than one nor more than six months.
(R.C. § 4399.99(C))
§ 91.23 USE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR IN A PUBLIC DANCE HALL PROHIBITED;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(2) of this section,
no person who is the proprietor of, or who conducts, manages, or is in charge
of any public dance hall shall allow the use of any intoxicating liquor or the
presence of intoxicated persons in the public dance hall or on the premises on
which it is located.
      (2)   The prohibition against the use of any intoxicating liquor
contained in division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to establishments
that are holders of a D-1, D-2, D-3, D-4, or D-5 permit whose principal
business consists of conducting a hotel, a restaurant, a club, or a nightclub,
all as defined in R.C. § 4301.01.
(R.C. § 4399.14)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $25 nor
more than $500, imprisoned not more than six months, or both.
(R.C. § 4399.99(D))
§ 91.24 POISONOUSLY ADULTERATED LIQUORS.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of sale, shall adulterate spirituous
liquor, alcoholic liquor, or beer used or intended for drink or medicinal or
mechanical purposes, with cocculus indicus, vitriol, grains of paradise, opium,
alum, capsicum, copperas, laurel water, logwood, brazilwood, cochineal, sugar
of lead, aloes, glucose, tannic acid, or any other substance that is poisonous
or injurious to health, or with a substance not a necessary ingredient in the
manufacture of the spiritous liquor, alcoholic liquor, or beer, or sell, offer,
or keep for sale spiritous liquor, alcoholic liquor, or beer that is so
adulterated.
   (B)   In addition to the penalties provided in division (C) of this section,
a person convicted of violating this section shall pay all necessary costs and
expenses incurred in inspecting and analyzing spiritous liquor, alcoholic
liquor, or beer that is so adulterated, sold, kept, or offered for sale.
(R.C. § 4399.15)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $20 nor
more than $100, imprisoned not less than 20 nor more than 60 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4399.99(E))
§ 91.25 TAVERN KEEPER PERMITTING RIOTING OR DRUNKENNESS.
   (A)   No tavern keeper shall permit rioting, intoxication, or drunkenness in
or on his or her premises.
(R.C. § 4399.16)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $5 nor more
than $100.
(R.C. § 4399.99(A))
§ 91.26 NOTICE OF ACTION TO PROHIBIT LIQUOR BUSINESS.
   Any party bringing an action to prohibit the operation of a business under a
liquor permit issued pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4303 shall, upon filing the
complaint in the action, notify the Division of Liquor Control of the filing of
the complaint.
(R.C. § 4303.40)
§ 91.27 PROCEDURE WHEN INJUNCTION VIOLATED.
   (A)   Any person subject to an injunction, temporary or permanent, granted
pursuant to R.C. § 3767.05(D) or (E) involving a condition described in
division (3) of the definition of “nuisance” in R.C. § 3767.01, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall obey the injunction. If the
person violates the injunction, the court, or in vacation a judge thereof, may
summarily try and punish the violator. The proceedings for punishment for
contempt shall be commenced by filing with the Clerk of the Court from which
the injunction issued, information under oath setting out the alleged facts
constituting the violation, whereupon the court shall cause a warrant to issue
under which the defendant shall be arrested. The trial may be had upon
affidavits, or either party may demand the production and oral examination of
the witnesses.
(R.C. § 4301.74)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 91.28 LIQUOR TRANSACTION SCANS.
   (A)   As used in this section and §
91.29:
      CARD HOLDER. Means any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a permit holder, or an agent or
employee of a permit holder, for either of the purposes listed in under
divisions (a) or (b) of the definition for “transaction scan” in this section.
      IDENTIFICATION CARD. Means an identification card issued under R.C. §§
4507.50 through 4507.52 or an equivalent identification card issued by another
state.
      PERMIT HOLDER. Means the holder of a permit issued under R.C. Chapter
4303.
      TRANSACTION SCAN. Means the process by which a permit holder or an agent
or employee of a permit holder checks, by means of a transaction scan device,
the validity of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification
card that is presented as a condition for doing either of the following:
         (a)   Purchasing any beer, intoxicating liquor, or low-alcohol
beverage;
         (b)   Gaining admission to a premises that has been issued a liquor
permit authorizing the sale of beer or intoxicating liquor for consumption on
the premises where sold, and where admission is restricted to persons 21 years
of age or older.
      TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Means any commercial device or combination of
devices used at a point of sale that is capable of deciphering in an
electronically readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or
bar code of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification
card.
   (B)   (1)   A permit holder or an agent or employee of a permit holder may
perform a transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the
validity of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card
presented by a card holder for either of the purposes listed in divisions (a)
or (b) of the definition for “transaction scan” in this section.
      (2)   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (B)(1) of this section fails to match the information printed on
the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by
the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information so
printed is false or fraudulent, neither the permit holder nor any agent or
employee of the permit holder shall sell any beer, intoxicating liquor, or low-
alcohol beverage to the card holder.
      (3)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not preclude a permit holder
or an agent or employee of a permit holder from using a transaction scan device
to check the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or identification card, if the document includes a bar code or
magnetic strip that may be scanned by the device, as a condition of a sale
beer, intoxicating liquor, or a low-alcohol beverage or of granting admission
to a premises described in the definition for “transaction scan” in this
section.
   (C)   The Registrar of Motor Vehicles, with the approval of the Liquor
Control Commission, shall adopt, and may amend or rescind, rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 that do both of the following:
      (1)   Govern the recording and maintenance of information described in
R.C. § 4301.61(D)(1)(a) and (D)(1)(b), R.C. § 2925.57(D)(1)(a) and (D)(1)(b),
and R.C. § 2927.021(D)(1)(a) and (D)(1)(b);
      (2)   Ensure quality control in the use of transaction scan devices under
R.C. §§ 2925.57, 2925.58, 2927.021, 2927.022, 4301.61, and 4301.611.
   (D)   (1)   No permit holder or agent or employee of a permit holder shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except for the following:
         (a)   The name and date of birth of the person listed on the driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the card
holder;
         (b)   The expiration date and identification number of the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the card
holder.
      (2)   No permit holder or agent or employee of a permit holder shall use
the information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to
be recorded and maintained under division (D)(1) of this section, except for
purposes of R.C. § 4301.611, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (3)   No permit holder or agent or employee of a permit holder shall use
a transaction scan device for a purpose other than a purpose listed in
divisions (a) or (b) of the definition for “transaction scan” in this section.
      (4)   No permit holder or agent or employee of a permit holder shall sell
or otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising, or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by R.C. § 4301.611, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or another section of this code
or the Ohio Revised Code.
   (E)   Nothing in this section or R.C. § 4301.611, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, relieves a permit holder or an agent or
employee of a permit holder of any responsibility to comply with any other
applicable local, state or federal laws or rules governing the sale of beer,
intoxicating liquor, or low-alcohol beverages.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) or (D) of this section is guilty of
an illegal liquor transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender
a civil penalty of up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the Court
shall pay each collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into
the County Treasury.
(R.C. § 4301.61)
§ 91.29 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES.
   (A)   A permit holder or an agent or employee of a permit holder may not be
found guilty of a charge of a violation of this chapter or any rule of the
Liquor Control Commission in which the age of the purchaser of any beer,
intoxicating liquor, or low-alcohol beverage is an element of the alleged
violation, if the permit holder, agent, or employee raises and proves as an
affirmative defense that all of the following occurred:
      (1)   A card holder attempting to purchase any beer, intoxicating liquor,
or low-alcohol beverage presented a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
an identification card.
      (2)   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that the
license or card was valid.
      (3)   The beer, intoxicating liquor, or low-alcohol beverage was sold to
the card holder in reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan.
   (B)   In determining whether a permit holder or an agent or employee of a
permit holder has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (A) of
this section, the Liquor Control Commission or the trier of fact in a court of
record shall consider any written policy that the permit holder has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of R.C. §§ 4301.22(A)(1)
or (A)(2), 4301.63 through 4301.636, 4301.69, and 4301.691, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances. For purposes of division (A)(3)
of this section, the Commission or trier of fact shall consider that reasonable
reliance upon the identification presented and the completed transaction scan
may require a permit holder or an agent or employee of a permit holder to
exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a transaction
scan device does not excuse a permit holder or an agent or employee of a permit
holder from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
      (1)   Whether a person to whom the permit holder or agent or employee of
a permit holder sells any beer or intoxicating liquor is 21 years of age or
older or sells low-alcohol beverage is 18 years of age or older;
      (2)   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
   (C)   The affirmative defense provided by division (A) of this section is in
addition to the defense provided by R.C. § 4301.639, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   In any hearing before the Liquor Control Commission and in any
criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by division (A) of
this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a deputy registrar
who issued an identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50 through 4507.52 shall
be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of that issuance in lieu
of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles in the hearing or action.
(R.C. § 4301.611)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other penalty
has been provided is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4301.70, 4301.99(A))
Statutory reference:
    Liquor Director to be notified of court decision regarding permit holder,
employee or agent, see R.C. § 4301.991
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Prohibited noises
Nuisance Abatements
   
92.15   Definitions
   
92.16   Enforcement
   
92.17   Inspection
   
92.18   Maintenance responsibility
   
92.19   General exterior maintenance requirements
   
92.20   Exterior surfaces
   
92.21   Foundations
   
92.22   Roofs, gutters, downspouts and chimneys
   
92.23   Yard maintenance
   
92.24   Infestation
   
92.25   Notice of violation
   
92.26   Appeal
   
92.27   Misdemeanor for failure to correct or abate
   
92.28   Village right to abate
   
92.29   Abatement procedure for non-motor vehicle nuisance
   
92.30   Abatement procedure for motor vehicle nuisances
   
92.31   Fees for service and return
   
92.32   Certification to County Auditor
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 PROHIBITED NOISES.
   (A)   No person shall play, use, operate, or permit to be played, used or
operated, any radios, tape recorder, cassette player, CD player, or other
machine or device for reproducing sound, if the machine or device is located in
or on a public street, highway, or public space, including a park or beauty
area; and if the sound generated is audible at a distance of 50 feet from the
device producing the sound.
   (B)   The operation of a vehicle in violation of division (A) of this
section shall be prima facie evidence that such person operates, plays, or uses
the machine or device for reproducing sound.
   (C)   No person shall play, use, operate or permit to be played, used or
operated any radio, tape recorder, cassette player, CD player, or other machine
or device for reproducing sounds, if the machine or device violates a
resident’s right to quiet enjoyment of their property.
   (D)   No person shall own or possess or harbor any animal or bird which
frequently or continuously howls, barks, meows, squawks or makes other sounds
which creates unreasonably loud and disturbing noises of such a character,
intensity and duration as to disturb the peace, quiet and good order of the
village.
(Ord. 13-27, passed 12-10-2013) Penalty, see §
92.99
NUISANCE ABATEMENTS
§ 92.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The word
“building” shall include the word “structure”, and the word “shall” is
mandatory and not directory.
   DETERIORATION. The condition or appearance of the exterior of the building,
or part thereof, characterized by holes, breaks, rot, crumbling, cracking,
peeling, rusting, or other evidence of physical decay, neglect, or lack of
maintenance.
   EXTERIOR OF THE PREMISES. Portions of a building which are exposed to public
view and the open space of any premises outside of any building.
   FINAL ORDER. A notice of violation has been served according to this
chapter, and the persons named have failed to comply within the time allowed,
and have either waived their right to appeal to the appropriate governmental
body or their appeal has been denied by that body.
   GARBAGE. Animal or vegetable waste resulting from the handling, preparation,
cooking and consumption of food.
   INFESTATION. The presence of insects, rodents, vermin or other pests on the
premises which constitute a health hazard.
   NUISANCE. As defined by the state statutes and declared thereby to be a
nuisance, and also including conditions defined herein and all conditions
dangerous to human life or detrimental to the health of persons on or near the
premises where the condition exists and where the conditions are perilous by
active and negligent operation thereof, and unsanitary conditions are anything
offensive to the senses or dangerous to health.
   OCCUPANT. Any person living and sleeping in a dwelling unit or having an
actual possession of said dwelling unit or any person who leases or rents a
non-residential building, structure or any portion thereof.
   OWNER. Any person who, along or jointly or severally with others, shall have
legal or equitable title to any premises, with or without the accompanying
actual possession thereof; or shall have charge, care, or control as owner or
agent of the owner; or as executor, administrator, trustee, receiver, or
guardian of the estate, or as a mortgagee in possession.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land, including the buildings or
structures thereon.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and non-putrescible solid wastes (except body
wastes) including, but not limited to, garbage, rubbish, ashes, dead animals
and industrial wastes; an accumulation of brush, broken glass, stumps, and
roots that present a safety hazard and includes garbage, trash, and debris
which present an unsanitary and/or safety hazard.
   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid waste consisting of both combustible and non-
combustible wastes such as paper, wrappings, tin cans, yard clippings, leaves,
wood, glass, crockery, plastics and similar materials.
(Ord. 20-20, passed 7-28-2020)
§ 92.16 ENFORCEMENT.
   The enforcement of any and all provisions of this chapter is placed with the
Village Administrator, the Police Department and the Fire Department, as they
believe may be required to carry out and effectuate all of the provisions
herein.
(Ord. 20-20, passed 7-28-2020)
§ 92.17 INSPECTION.
   All buildings, premises and uses within the village are subject to exterior
inspections from time to time by the Village Administrator, Police Chief or
Fire Chief.
(Ord. 20-20, passed 7-28-2020)
§ 92.18 MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The owner and/or manager of every structure or use within the village
shall be responsible for maintaining the exterior surfaces of the same in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The owner and/or manager of every structure or use within the village
shall be responsible for maintaining the yard area contiguous thereto in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   The owner and/or manager of every yard or lot within the village shall
be responsible for maintaining their yard and/or lot area in conformance with
the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   No owner or manager shall be relieved from the obligations of, nor be
entitled to defend any violation by reason of any contract or agreement between
them and any other person.
(Ord. 20-20, passed 7-28-2020) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.19 GENERAL EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The exterior surfaces of all structures or uses within the village,
whether functional or aesthetic, shall be maintained in good repair. Any
exterior part or feature thereof having functional use shall be capable of
performing the use for which such part or feature was designed.
   (B)   The entire yard area extending up to and including the lot line in all
directions shall be maintained in a safe, clean and sanitary condition.
(Ord. 20-20, passed 7-28-2020)
§ 92.20 EXTERIOR SURFACES.
   (A)   All exterior surfaces of every structure or use within the village
shall be maintained so as to resist decay or deterioration from any naturally-
occurring cause. All exterior surfaces shall be covered with paint, finish or
other surface-coating so as to prevent such decay and deterioration. An
exterior wall segment, facing or other distinguishable surface area determined
by the Village Administrator to be substantially bare, peeling, flaking,
pitted, corroded or otherwise deteriorated, will require the wall segment,
facing or other distinguishable surface area to be surface-coated in its
entirety. If the surface to be coated is a portion of a larger structure, such
surface coating shall be compatible in color, texture and design with the
entire structure.
   (B)   Any deteriorated or decayed exterior walls, doors, porches, floors,
steps, railings, or parts or features thereof, shall be repaired or replaced.
   (C)   Any damaged or broken windows, screens, or shutters and deteriorated
or decayed sill, sash, molding, lintel, frame or trim thereof, shall be
repaired or replaced.
(Ord. 20-20, passed 7-28-2020)
§ 92.21 FOUNDATIONS.
   The foundation of every structure or use within the village shall be
maintained in such condition and repair as to prevent damage to the structural
integrity of the same.
(Ord. 20-20, passed 7-28-2020)
§ 92.22 ROOFS, GUTTERS, DOWNSPOUTS AND CHIMNEYS.
   (A)   The roof of every structure or use within the village shall be
maintained weather-tight. All missing shingles or other roofing materials shall
be replaced with materials of similar kind, nature, design and color as the
original thereof. If it is determined by the Village Administrator that the
total area of any roof segment or distinguishable portion thereof is comprised
of missing or deteriorated shingles or other roofing material, then the roof
segment or distinguishable portion thereof shall be replaced or repaired with
materials of similar kind, nature, design and color as the original thereof.
   (B)   Any structure or use within the village having gutters and/or
downspouts in place shall be maintained in such a manner as to keep such
gutters and/or downspouts free of exterior rust or corrosion. Such rust or
corrosion, as may develop in the course of ordinary use of the same, shall be
removed, painted or otherwise surface-coated as to keep such gutters and/or
downspouts free of visible rust or corrosion.
(Ord. 20-20, passed 7-28-2020)
§ 92.23 YARD MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Refuse.
      (1)   No furniture, mattresses, household furnishings, rugs, appliances,
dilapidated vehicles or vehicle parts, discarded or abandoned machinery, and
construction equipment shall be placed or stored in any yard area or use within
the village over a period in excess of ten days. Said ten-day period may be
extended as a result of extenuating circumstances if approved by the Village
Administrator, Police Chief or Fire Chief.
      (2)   Exterior property areas of all premises or uses shall be kept free
of debris, objects, materials or conditions that, in the opinion of the Village
Administrator, create a health, accident, or fire hazard, or are a public
nuisance, or constitute a blighting or deteriorating influence on the
neighborhood. All debris shall be removed within ten days. Said ten-day period
may be extended as a result of extenuating circumstances if approved by the
Village Administrator, Police Chief or Fire Chief.
   (B)   Grass and weed control; surface condition; removal of noxious and
excessively high grass and weeds constituting a public nuisance.
      (1)   It is hereby deemed that weeds or grass growing at a height of nine
inches or higher upon any property within the village are a public nuisance.
      (2)   All lots shall be provided with grass or other appropriate ground
cover or landscaping material so as to assure absorption of rainfall and
prevent erosion and rapid runoff of surface water.
   (C)   Accessory structures.
      (1)   All structures or uses located in the yard areas within the
village, such as sheds, barns, garages, bins and the like, shall be maintained
in good repair in conformance with other provisions of this subchapter having
regard to foundations, roofs and exterior surfaces.
      (2)   Any broken, rusted, deteriorated, or decayed fence, yard enclosure,
or other device or structure located in the yard area contiguous to any
structure or use within the village shall be repaired or removed.
   (D)   Ground surface hazards. Holes, cracks, excavations, breaks,
projections and obstructions at any place on the premises which, in the opinion
of the Zoning Inspector, are a hazard to persons using the premises shall not
be permitted.
   (E)   Motor vehicles. 
      (1)   Generally. A nuisance is hereby declared to exist when a person,
firm, or corporation keeps, stores, places, or allows to remain, unlicensed
motor vehicles, motor vehicles in an inoperative condition, motor vehicles
unfit for further use, or automobile or motor vehicle parts on any parcel of
land, street, or alley, within the corporate limits of the village.
      (2)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (E), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         AUTOMOBILE AND MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS. Any portion or parts of any motor
driven vehicle as detached from the vehicle as a whole.
         MOTOR VEHICLE IN AN INOPERATIVE CONDITION. Any style or type of motor
driven vehicle used or useful for the conveyance of persons or property which
is unable to move under its own power due to defective or missing parts and
which has remained in such condition for a period in excess of ten consecutive
days.
         MOTOR VEHICLE UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE. Any style or type of motor driven
vehicle used for the conveyance of persons or property which is in a dangerous
condition, has defective or missing parts, or is in such a condition generally
as to be unfit for further use as a conveyance.
(Ord. 20-20, passed 7-28-2020)
§ 92.24 INFESTATION.
   All structures, and the premises thereof, shall be maintained free of
vermin, rodents, and other pests, and free of sources of breeding, harborage,
and infestation by such vermin, rodents, and other pests.
(Ord. 20-20, passed 7-28-2020)
§ 92.25 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Where a violation of any provision of this chapter is found to exist,
the village, through its Village Administrator, Police Chief or Fire Chief,
shall cause a written notice of such violation to be served upon the owner,
manager, occupant or other person responsible for the correction thereof. The
notice shall specify the violation committed, and shall provide a reasonable
period of time, not more than 30 days, to correct or abate the violation. When
the nuisance involves a motor vehicle, a period of 72 hours is considered a
reasonable period of time to correct or abate the violation. The notice shall
state that, if the violation is not corrected or abated within the time
allowed, the village may enter upon the premises and perform the correction or
abatement, may impound a motor vehicle found to be a nuisance, and charge the
cost thereof to the person named in a final order.
   (B)   Notice shall be served by certified mail to the current address, as
recorded with the County Auditor or Bureau of Motor Vehicles, as the case may
be, as to the owner, and the property address as to the occupant.
   (C)   When the nuisance involves a motor vehicle, a copy of the notice shall
also be conspicuously affixed to the motor vehicle if the surrounding facts and
circumstances make it practicable to do so.
   (D)   In the absence of appeal, as provided below, the completion of notice
and failure to comply shall constitute a final order as to administrative
proceedings.
(Ord. 20-20, passed 7-28-2020)
§ 92.26 APPEAL.
   (A)   Within 14 days of the date of receipt of notice of violation, the
person may request a hearing before the Board of Zoning Appeals by filing a
written request with the Village Administrator. The appeal shall be heard at
the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Board of Zoning Appeals; allowing
at least five days’ notice to the party and the Village Administrator. The
Board of Zoning Appeals may sustain, modify, or dismiss, in whole or in part,
any action required to correct or abate the violation set forth in the notice
and shall issue an order incorporating its determinations, and such order shall
be a final order as to these administrative proceedings.
   (B)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall consider the following in
determining appropriate action to be taken, to-wit:
      (1)   That any modification of the original order of the Village
Administrator, Police Chief or Fire Chief, shall not, in any material way,
alter the standards of this subchapter and shall not affect detrimentally the
health or safety of occupants, or the health, safety, or welfare of the
occupants or owners of adjacent premises or of the immediate neighborhood; and
      (2)   That strict enforcement would constitute an undue and unnecessary
hardship on the owner, manager, or resident by reason of compelling an
expenditure for repair of the premises which would substantially
disproportionate any benefit to the health, safety or welfare of the community
that might be derived therefrom.
   (C)   Further appeal may proceed according to R.C. Chapter 2506.
(Ord. 20-20, passed 7-28-2020)
§ 92.27 MISDEMEANOR FOR FAILURE TO CORRECT OR ABATE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, manager or occupant to fail to
correct or abate a violation, as determined by a final order entered into under
this chapter.
   (B)   Prosecution for criminal violations of this chapter shall be in either
the County Common Pleas Court or the Sidney Municipal Court. The final order
shall be prima facie evidence of the violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 20-20, passed 7-28-2020) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.28 VILLAGE RIGHT TO ABATE.
   In the event a violation is not corrected or abated as required by a final
order, the village shall have the right to enter upon the premises and make the
correction or abatement and recover the actual cost thereof, plus 15% for
inspections and administrative fees, from the owner and/or other person named
in the final order.
(Ord. 20-20, passed 7-28-2020) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.29 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE FOR NON-MOTOR VEHICLE NUISANCE.
   (A)   Upon information that a final order has not been complied with, the
legislative authority may cause written notice to be served on the owner,
lessee, manager or occupant of the premises; giving notice that the village
will enter the premises five days thereafter to make correction or abatement.
   (B)   After the passage of five days with the continued failure to abate or
correct, the Village Administrator shall hire the necessary machinery and labor
to perform the required task.
   (C)   Expenses incurred shall, when approved by Council, be paid out of the
money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated.
(Ord. 20-20, passed 7-28-2020)
§ 92.30 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE FOR MOTOR VEHICLE NUISANCE.
   (A)   Upon information that a final order involving a motor vehicle nuisance
has not been complied with, a police officer is authorized to remove or direct
the removal of the motor vehicle for purposes of impounding the motor vehicle.
   (B)   Whenever a police officer impounds a motor vehicle, as authorized
herein, and the officer knows or is able to ascertain from the registration
records in the vehicle, the name and address of the owner thereof, the officer
shall, in a timely manner, give or cause to be given notice in writing to the
owner of the fact of such impoundment and the reasons therefore and of the
place to which the vehicle has been removed.
   (C)   Whenever a police officer impounds a vehicle under this section and
does not know and is not able to ascertain the name of the owner, or for any
other reason is unable to give the notice to the owner as provided above, the
officer shall cause a search of the records of the Bureau of Motor Vehicles to
be made within three days of the removal to ascertain the name of the owner.
Notice by certified mail, with the return receipt requested, shall be sent to
the owner of the motor vehicle at his or her last known address within three
days after the results of the search are received. The officer shall mail, to
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles and file with the proprietor of any place where
the vehicle may be stored, a copy of the notice. The notice shall include a
complete description of the vehicle, the date and time of the removal, the
place from which removed, the reasons for removal, and the name of the place
where the vehicle is stored.
(Ord. 20-20, passed 7-28-2020)
§ 92.31 FEES FOR SERVICE AND RETURN.
   The Chief of Police or any police officer may make service and return of the
notice provided for in this subchapter, and shall be allowed the same fees as
provided for service and return of summons in civil cases.
(Ord. 20-20, passed 7-28-2020)
§ 92.32 CERTIFICATION TO COUNTY AUDITOR.
   If the bill for abatement or correction is not paid within 30 days after
submission, then the Fiscal Officer shall certify said costs together with a
10% penalty to the County Auditor for placement on a tax duplicate to be
collected as other taxes for return to the village, and shall be a lien upon
the premises from the date of certification.
(Ord. 20-20, passed 7-28-2020)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates §
92.01 is guilty of a prohibited noise violation with a fine not to exceed $200.
   (B)   Whoever fails to comply with any final order, as provided in §§
92.15 through
92.32, shall be upon conviction of the same, be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 13-27, passed 12-10-2013; Ord. 20-20, passed 7-28-2020)
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
93.01   Botkins Community Park
   
93.02   Fishing in town pond
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 BOTKINS COMMUNITY PARK.
   (A)   Park hours of operation.
      (1)   The Botkins Community Park shall be open seasonally from March to
November. The exact dates of opening and closing will depend upon weather and
the Public Works Department’s ability to protect the park’s waterlines from
freezing.
      (2)   The Botkins Community Park shall be open daily from dawn to dusk.
      (3)   No unauthorized persons shall enter the premise of the Botkins
Community Park except during the operating hours.
   (B)   Scheduling use of park.
      (1)   Scheduling use of park athletic fields.
         (a)   All athletic events (practices, games, camps and the like) must
be scheduled with the Village Administrator no later than three weeks before
the event is to take place.
         (b)   Organizations seeking regular seasonal use must attend an
organizational meeting held by the village.
            1.   An organizational meeting for spring/summer usage will be held
the first week of March each year; and
            2.   An organizational meeting for summer/fall usage will be held
the last week of June each year.
         (c)   Athletic fields will be scheduled on a first-come-first-serve
basis, with the following exceptions:
            1.   Official local school sanctioned events will have first
priority for scheduling; and
            2.   Community organizations will have second priority for
scheduling.
      (2)   Scheduling use of park shelter house or other amenities.
         (a)   All events must be scheduled with the Village Administrator.
         (b)   Events will be scheduled on a first-come-first-serve basis.
   (C)   Use of baseball and softball diamonds. Organizations that use the
baseball and softball diamonds are responsible for the proper maintenance of
the diamonds before and after use. The organization will be responsible for
completing the following maintenance:
      (1)   Hand dragging of infield;
      (2)   Chalking infield lines;
      (3)   Raking of pitcher’s mound and batters boxes;
      (4)   Install and put away bases; and
      (5)   Sweep dug-outs and throw away all garbage.
   (D)   Use of soccer fields. Soccer organizations that wish to utilize the
park must have field configurations and layouts approved by the Village
Administrator prior to stringing and painting them at the park.
   (E)   Cost of park usage. Costs of events shall be determined by Village
Council on a case-by-case basis.
   (F)   Alcohol policy.
      (1)   Alcohol consumption at the park is strictly prohibited unless
specifically authorized by the Village Council through a motion or resolution.
      (2)   Alcohol is strictly prohibited during local school sporting events.
(Ord. 16-02, passed 2-23-2016) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 FISHING IN TOWN POND.
   (A)   For a period of seven days prior to the fishing derby and 21 days
after the fishing derby, fishing in the town pond shall be prohibited except as
herein provided.
   (B)   Fishing shall be permitted under the supervision and direction of the
Botkins Kiwanis Club during the hours of the fishing derby.
   (C)   Upon being advised of the date for the fishing derby, the Mayor shall
cause the notices to be posted indicating the dates through which fishing shall
be prohibited.
(Ord. 83-6, passed 9-13-1983) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
93.02 shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor and subject to a maximum penalty
of $100 per offense.
(Ord. 83-6, passed 9-13-1983)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Utility poles and signs within street right-of-way
   
94.02   Trees
Construction and/or Repairing of Sidewalks, Curbs, Gutters and Approaches
   
94.15   Procedure
   
94.16   Costs of placement
   
94.17   Definitions
   
94.18   Notices and special assessments
   
94.19   Criteria in determining construction and/or repair needed
   
94.20   Temporary sidewalk repair
 
   
94.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 UTILITY POLES AND SIGNS WITHIN STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation maintaining utility poles or other
signs within the village right-of-way shall cause the lower six feet of such
signs and/or poles to be painted with a reflective type paint or material so
that the location of such obstacle can be more readily detected during the
night season.
   (B)   The village maintenance officer is herewith authorized and directed to
notify those persons, firms and corporations maintaining such signs and utility
poles of the enactment of this section with instructions that the structures be
made to conform with this section within three months of the effective date of
this section.
(Ord. 82-16, passed - -1982) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 TREES.
   All trees shall be trimmed so as to have a clear height of ten feet above
the surface of sidewalks and 16 feet above the surface of the street or
roadway, and the branches of all trees in front of and along lots or lands near
which street lights are placed shall be trimmed so as not to obstruct the free
passage of light from said street lights to the street and sidewalk.
(Ord. 96-6, passed 4-9-1996)
CONSTRUCTION AND/OR REPAIRING OF SIDEWALKS, CURBS, GUTTERS AND APPROACHES
§ 94.15 PROCEDURE.
   The Village Administrator shall have the authority of the Village Council,
and he or she shall designate one or more subordinates as sidewalk inspectors
who shall have the duty of inspecting the sidewalks within the village and
ordering and arranging for the replacement or repair of sidewalks in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 729.
(Ord. 20-02, passed 1-28-2020)
§ 94.16 COSTS OF PLACEMENT.
   The costs of sidewalk replacement or repair, where performed by or through
the village, shall be billed to the property owner and if not paid within 30
days, collected as a special assessment pursuant to R.C. Chapter 729.
(Ord. 20-02, passed 1-28-2020)
§ 94.17 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CRACK. A fissure within a sidewalk square.
   JOINT. A cleavage created for expansion purposes which separates two or more
sidewalk squares.
   PITCH. The constructed slope of a sidewalk to the street (normally one-
quarter inch per foot).
   SIDEWALK(S). A public sidewalk within the street right-of-way.
   SIDEWALK SQUARE. The portion of a sidewalk bordered by joints and the
sidewalk edge.
   SPALLING. A chipped or splintered condition of a sidewalk square.
(Ord. 20-02, passed 1-28-2020)
§ 94.18 NOTICES AND SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   Notices and special assessments will be handled in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 729.
(Ord. 20-02, passed 1-28-2020)
§ 94.19 CRITERIA IN DETERMINING CONSTRUCTION AND/OR REPAIR NEEDED.
   The Sidewalk Inspector shall apply the following criteria in the
determination of whether construction and/or repair is necessary.
   (A)   Sidewalks.
      (1)   If more than one crack is present, the section shall be replaced.
If a single crack is one-eighth inch or more in width, the section shall be
replaced.
      (2)   Adjoining sections or portions thereof whose edges differ
vertically by more than one-half inch or create a tripping hazard shall be
replaced.
      (3)   Section(s) that have holes in them one inch or more in diameter or
are cracked or broken in such a manner that pieces of concrete are missing or
loose shall be replaced.
      (4)   Section(s) having depressions, reverse cross slope (sloping away
from the street), or below back of curb grade causing the impoundment of mud or
water shall be replaced.
      (5)   Sidewalk sections with a 25% or larger area that is generally
deteriorated as evident by spalling, raveling or irregular surfaces shall be
replaced.
      (6)   Section(s) which cause an abrupt change in the slope of the
sidewalk shall be replaced.
      (7)   Sidewalks that have settled due to utility installation shall be
replaced.
      (8)   Should 60% of sidewalks on a given parcel be found deficient, 100%
of the sidewalks on said parcel may be considered deficient.
   (B)   Curb and gutters.
      (1)   Any section which has horizontal cracks or cracks causing spalling
or breaking away of the curb section shall be replaced.
      (2)   Adjoining sections or portions whose edges differ vertically by
more than one-half inch shall be replaced.
      (3)   Any section in which the concrete has deteriorated leaving the
aggregate exposed shall be replaced.
      (4)   Any section where the gutter impounds water shall be replaced.
      (5)   Any section having material (asphalt, concrete, mortar and the
like) added to the gutter so as to impede normal flow shall be replaced.
      (6)   Any section which causes an abrupt change in slope shall be
replaced.
      (7)   Any section that has been cut or altered to accommodate a drain
pipe to the street shall be replaced.
      (8)   Where 70% or more of the existing curb within the same block is
defective and of similar age, all of the curb and gutter within that block may
be required to be replaced utilizing slip form construction.
      (9)   When determining curbs in need of repair or replacement, sections
requiring action by property owners shall be a minimum of ten feet.
   (C)   Driveway approaches.
      (1)   Driveway approach sections which have multiple cracks or a single
crack with a width of one-quarter inch or more in width shall be replaced.
      (2)   Driveway approach sections which differ vertically by one-half inch
or more above or below the sidewalk and/or the back of the curb abutting the
driveway approach shall be replaced.
      (3)   Driveway approach sections which are cracked or broken in such a
manner that pieces of concrete are missing or loose or will cause a situation
where pieces can become missing or loose shall be replaced.
      (4)   Driveway approach sections which are dipped across the sidewalk in
such a manner that an abrupt change in grade in the sidewalk is created shall
be replaced.
      (5)   Driveway approaches which exhibit any of the following
characteristics: do not match the grade of the curb and gutter, promote the
retention of water, and/or impede storm water flows shall be replaced.
      (6)   Abandoned driveway approaches shall be removed and curbing
replaced.
(Ord. 20-02, passed 1-28-2020)
§ 94.20 TEMPORARY SIDEWALK REPAIR.
   No sidewalk square shall be ordered or arranged to be repaired by way of
crack fillers, wedges, surface treatments or the like by a Sidewalk Inspector,
except as a temporary measure pending replacement. Sidewalk squares which, upon
inspection, are noted to have been temporarily repaired shall be ordered or
arranged to be replaced. However, where the only defect is a difference in
elevation due to settlement, it shall be permissible to remedy said condition
without replacing the sidewalk square.
(Ord. 20-02, passed 1-28-2020) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Whoever violates §
94.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine in the
maximum amount of $100 per structure.
(Ord. 82-16, passed - -1982)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Medical marijuana retail dispensaries, cultivators or processors
   
110.02   Obstruction of public roads by railroad
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 MEDICAL MARIJUANA RETAIL DISPENSARIES, CULTIVATORS OR PROCESSORS.
   The village prohibits the establishment of retail dispensaries, cultivators
and processors of adult use cannabis and medical marijuana within the
corporation limits of the village.
(Ord. 17-25, passed 7-11-2017; Ord. 23-38, passed 12-13-2023) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC ROADS BY RAILROAD.
   (A)   No railroad company shall obstruct, permit, or cause to be obstructed
a public street, road, or highway by permitting a railroad car, locomotive, or
other obstruction to remain upon or across a public street, road or highway for
longer than five minutes to the hinderance or inconvenience of travelers or a
person passing along or upon such street, road, or highway. No railroad company
shall fail, at the end of each five-minute period of obstruction of a public
street, road, or highway, to cause such a railroad, car, locomotive, or other
obstruction to be removed for sufficient time, not less than three minutes, to
allow the passage of persons and vehicles waiting to cross.
   (B)   This section does not apply to obstruction of a public street, road,
or highway by a continuously moving through train or caused by circumstances
wholly beyond the control of the railroad company. This section, however,
applies to other obstructions, including, without limitation, those caused by
stopped trains and trains engaged in switching, loading, or unloading
operations. For purposes of this section, an obstruction shall include those
occurrences where a railroad car or locomotive is stopped either short of or
beyond a crossing but within sufficient proximity thereof so as to cause the
crossing signals to be activated, in which case, such railroad company shall
provide sufficient personnel to assist with traffic control.
   (C)   Upon the filing of an affidavit or complaint for a violation of this
section, summons shall be issued to the railroad company pursuant to R.C. §
2935.10(B), which summons shall be served on the regular ticket or freight
agent of the railroad company in the village, county, or the designated
statutory agent of the railroad company, the Secretary of State when standing
as the agent of the railroad company, or the appropriate persons listed in R.C.
§ 2703.10.
(Ord. 97-15, passed 10-14-1997) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Whoever violates §
110.02 shall be guilty of a third degree misdemeanor.
(Ord. 97-15, passed 10-14-1997)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
   
111.09   Municipal policy on soliciting
   
111.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
111.11   Duty of solicitors
   
111.12   Uninvited soliciting prohibited
   
111.13   Time limit on soliciting
Statutory reference:
   Municipal power to regulate, see R.C. §§ 715.61, 715.63, and 715.64
   Revocation of licenses for conviction of certain fraud and theft offenses,
see R.C. § 2961.03
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description, and includes but is not limited to
wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the municipality and
who, in the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure,
vehicle, or any place within the municipality.
   PEDDLER. Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale,
or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the municipality.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the municipality.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the legislative authority.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the Clerk or other authorized official. This application shall
be signed by the applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a
partnership, or by the president if a corporation. The applicant may be
requested to provide information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the municipality;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered; and
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application;
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) of this section, or the person identified in division (A)(3)
has been convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each
offense and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) of this section:
      (1)   A description or photograph of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the municipality, credentials from the
person, if any, for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing
the applicant to act as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) of this
section, a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than 14 days
prior to the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of
contagious or communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, or general welfare. In
particular, the following tangible evidence will constitute valid reasons for
disapproval of an application:
      (1)   The applicant has been convicted within the last three years of any
felony, or convicted within the last three year of any misdemeanor involving a
sex offense, a drug trafficking offense, or any offense of violence against
persons or property;
      (2)   The applicant has made willful misrepresentations in the
application;
      (3)   The applicant has committed prior violations of ordinances
pertaining to itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
      (4)   The applicant has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   The applicant has a record of continual breaches of solicited
contracts.
§ 111.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the Clerk
or other designated official after notice and hearing, pursuant to the
standards in §
111.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 111.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection with
the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving a sex offense, a drug trafficking
offense, or any offense of violence against persons or property; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, or general welfare of the
public.
§ 111.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the legislative authority. The appeal
shall be taken by filing with the legislative authority, within 14 days after
notice of the decision has been mailed to such person’s last known address, a
written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The legislative
authority shall set the time and place for a hearing, and notice for such
hearing shall be given to such person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05.
   (B)   The order of the legislative authority after the hearing shall be
final.
§ 111.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the municipality shall be used to conduct the business
licensed, separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Clerk or other authorized official shall issue a license to each
peddler or solicitor licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the
words “Licensed Peddler” or “Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the
license, and the number of the license. The license shall be kept with the
licensee during such time as he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.09 MUNICIPAL POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the municipality that the
residents in the municipality shall make the determination of whether
solicitors shall be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
§ 111.10 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors to any residence
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows:
      NO SOLICITORS INVITED
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third of an inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the Police Chief may provide the cards to persons
requesting, at the cost thereof, if available.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 111.11 DUTY OF SOLICITORS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the municipality upon which a residence is located to first examine the
notice provided for in §
111.10 if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice. If the notice states “NO SOLICITORS INVITED,” then the solicitor,
whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.12 UNINVITED SOLICITING PROHIBITED.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
111.10 above.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.13 TIME LIMIT ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door of a
residence located thereon, or rap or knock upon any door, or create any sound
in any other manner calculated to attract the attention of the occupant of such
residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the occupant thereof
and engage in soliciting, prior to 9:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m.
Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
      
133.   SEX OFFENSES
      
134.   GAMBLING OFFENSES
      
135.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
      
136.   OFFENSES AGAINST JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
      
137.   WEAPONS CONTROL
      
138.   DRUG OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Application of Title XIII
   
130.02   Definitions
   
130.03   Classification of offenses
   
130.04   Common law offenses abrogated
   
130.05   Rules of construction
   
130.06   Limitation of criminal prosecutions
   
130.07   Requirements for criminal liability; voluntary intoxication
   
130.08   Culpable mental states
   
130.09   Organizational criminal liability
   
130.10   Personal accountability for organizational conduct
   
130.11   Attempt
   
130.12   Complicity
   
130.13   Presumption of innocence; proof of offense; affirmative defense
   
130.14   Battered woman syndrome
   
130.15   Delinquency adjudications deemed convictions
   
130.16   Criminal law jurisdiction
   
130.17   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property held by Police
Department
   
130.18   Imposing sentence for misdemeanor
   
130.19   Multiple sentences
   
130.20   Apprehension, detention, or arrest of persons on bond
   
130.21   Self defense: limitations on duty to retreat prior to using force
 
   
130.99   Penalty for Title XIII
Statutory reference:
   Mayor’s Court generally, see R.C. Chapter 1905
   Municipal Court generally, see R.C. Chapter 1901
   Trials, Magistrate Courts, see R.C. Chapter 2938
§ 130.01 APPLICATION OF TITLE XIII.
   (A)   Title XIII of this code of ordinances embodies and prescribes
penalties for offenses against the municipality not classifiable in previous
titles and chapters. The word “misdemeanors”, as used in this title, is not
exhaustive and does not imply that offenses found elsewhere in this code of
ordinances are not also misdemeanors and punishable as such.
   (B)   Each act or omission for which a fine, imprisonment, or both is
provided under this Title or elsewhere in this code, or each act or omission
which is declared a violation of this code, is unlawful and is hereby made a
misdemeanor. Upon conviction, the penalty or penalties so provided shall be
imposed by the court.
§ 130.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTRABAND. Any property that is illegal for a person to acquire or possess
under a statute, ordinance, or rule, or that a trier of fact lawfully
determines to be illegal to possess by reason of the property’s involvement in
an offense. The term includes but is not limited to all of the following:
      (1)   Any controlled substance, as defined in R.C. § 3719.01, or any
device or paraphernalia related thereto;
      (2)   Any unlawful gambling device or paraphernalia;
      (3)   Any dangerous ordnance or obscene material.
   DANGEROUS OFFENDER. A person who has committed an offense, whose history,
character and condition reveal a substantial risk that he or she will be a
danger to others, and whose conduct has been characterized by a pattern of
repetitive, compulsive or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to the
consequences.
   DEADLY FORCE. Any force that carries a substantial risk that it will
proximately result in the death of any person.
   FORCE. Any violence, compulsion, or constraint physically exerted by any
means upon or against a person or thing.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any of the following:
      (1)   A Sheriff, deputy sheriff, constable, police officer of a township
or joint police district, Marshal, deputy marshal, municipal police officer,
member of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under
R.C. § 3735.31(D) or state highway patrol trooper.
      (2)   An officer, agent, or employee of the state or any of its agencies,
instrumentalities, or political subdivisions, upon whom, by statute, a duty to
conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain laws is imposed and the
authority to arrest violators is conferred, within the limits of such statutory
duty and authority.
      (3)   The Mayor, in a capacity as chief conservator of the peace within
the municipality.
      (4)   A member of an auxiliary police force organized by the county,
township, or municipal law enforcement authorities, within the scope of the
member’s appointment or commission.
      (5)   A person lawfully called pursuant to R.C. § 311.07 to aid a sheriff
in keeping the peace, for the purposes and during the time when the person is
called.
      (6)   A person appointed by a Mayor pursuant to R.C. § 737.10 as a
special patrolling officer during a riot or emergency, for the purposes and
during the time when the person is appointed.
      (7)   A member of the organized militia of this state or the armed forces
of the United States, lawfully called to duty to aid civil authorities in
keeping the peace or protect against domestic violence.
      (8)   A prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, secret
service officer, or municipal prosecutor.
      (9)   A veterans’ home police officer appointed under R.C. § 5907.02.
      (10)   A member of a police force employed by a regional transit
authority under R.C. § 306.35(Y).
      (11)   A special police officer employed by a port authority under R.C. §
4582.04 or 4582.28.
      (12)   The House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms if the House of
Representatives Sergeant at Arms has arrest authority pursuant to R.C. §
101.311(E)(1) and an Assistant House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms.
      (13)   The Senate Sergeant at Arms and an Assistant Senate Sergeant at
Arms;
      (14)   A special police officer employed by a municipal corporation at a
municipal airport, or other municipal air navigation facility, that has
scheduled operations, as defined in 14 C.F.R. § 119.3, as amended, and that is
required to be under a security program and is governed by aviation security
rules of the Transportation Security Administration of the United States
Department of Transportation as provided in 49 C.F.R. parts 1542 and 1544, as
amended.
   NOT GUILTY BY REASON OF INSANITY. A person is “not guilty by reason of
insanity” relative to a charge of an offense only if the person proves, in the
manner specified in R.C. § 2901.05, that at the time of the commission of the
offense, he or she did not know, as a result of a severe mental disease or
defect, the wrongfulness of his or her acts.
   OFFENSE OF VIOLENCE.
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02, 2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.11,
2903.12, 2903.13, 2903.15, 2903.18, 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22, 2905.01,
2905.02, 2905.11, 2905.32, 2907.02, 2907.03, 2907.05, 2909.02, 2909.03,
2909.24, 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2917.01, 2917.02, 2917.03, 2917.31,
2917.321, 2919.25, 2921.03, 2921.04, 2921.34, or 2923.161, of division (A)(1)
of R.C. § 2903.34, of division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) of R.C. § 2911.12, or
of division (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3) or (B)(4) of R.C. § 2919.22, or felonious
sexual penetration in violation of former R.C. § 2907.12;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States, substantially equivalent to
any section, division or offense listed in division (1) of this definition;
      (3)   An offense, other than a traffic offense, under an existing or
former municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or of the United
States, committed purposely or knowingly, and involving physical harm to
persons or a risk of serious physical harm to persons;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition;
      (5)   A violation of division (C) of R.C. § 959.131.
   PERSON.
      (1)   (a)   Subject to division (2) of this definition, as used in any
section contained in Title XIII of this code that sets forth a criminal
offense, the term includes all of the following:
            1.   An individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership and association.
            2.   An unborn human who is viable.
         (b)   As used in any section contained in Title XIII of this code that
does not set forth a criminal offense, the term includes an individual,
corporation, business trust, estate, partnership and association.
         (c)   As used in division (1)(a)2. of this definition, “unborn human”
means an individual organism of the species Homo sapiens from fertilization
until live birth. “Viable” means the stage of development of a human fetus at
which there is a realistic probability of maintaining and nourishing of a life
outside the womb with or without temporary artificial life-sustaining support.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (1)(a) of this definition, in no case
shall the portion of the definition of the term “person” that is set forth in
division (1)(a)2. of this definition be applied or construed in any section
contained in Title XIII of this code that sets forth a criminal offense in any
of the following manners:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (2)(a) of this
definition, in a manner so that the offense prohibits or is construed as
prohibiting any pregnant woman or her physician from performing an abortion
with the consent of the pregnant woman, with the consent of the pregnant woman
implied by law in a medical emergency, or with the approval of one otherwise
authorized by law to consent to medical treatment on behalf of the pregnant
woman. An abortion that violates the conditions described in the immediately
preceding sentence may be punished as a violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02,
2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.05, 2903.06, 2903.08, 2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13,
2903.14, 2903.21 or 2903.22, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, as applicable. An abortion that does not violate the conditions
described in the second immediately preceding sentence but that does violate
R.C. § 2919.12, 2919.13(B), 2919.15, 2919.151, 2919.17 or 2919.18, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, may be punished as a violation of
such section, as applicable. Consent is sufficient under this division if it is
of the type otherwise adequate to permit medical treatment to the pregnant
woman, even if it does not comply with R.C. § 2919.12.
         (b)   In a manner so that the offense is applied or is construed as
applying to a woman based on an act or omission of the woman that occurs while
she is or was pregnant and that results in any of the following:
            1.   Her delivery of a stillborn baby;
            2.   Her causing, in any other manner, the death in utero of a
viable, unborn human that she is carrying;
            3.   Her causing the death of her child who is born alive but who
dies from one or more injuries that are sustained while the child is a viable,
unborn human;
            4.   Her causing her child who is born alive to sustain one or more
injuries while the child is a viable, unborn human;
            5.   Her causing, threatening to cause, or attempting to cause, in
any other manner, an injury, illness, or other psychological illness or
condition, regardless of its duration or gravity, to a viable, unborn human
that she is carrying.
   PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS. Any injury, illness, or other physiological
impairment, regardless of its gravity or duration.
   PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY. Any tangible or intangible damage to property
that, in any degree, results in loss to its value or interferes with its use or
enjoyment. The term does not include wear and tear occasioned by normal use.
   PRIVILEGE. An immunity, license, or right conferred by law, or bestowed by
express or implied grant, or arising out of status, position, office, or
relationship, or growing out of necessity.
   PROPERTY.
      (1)   Any property, real or personal, tangible or intangible, and any
interest or license in that property. The term includes but is not limited to
cable television service, other telecommunications service, telecommunications
devices, information service, computers, data, computer software, financial
instruments associated with computers, other documents associated with
computers, or copies of the documents, whether in machine or human-readable
form, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, patents, and property protected by
a trademark, copyright or patent. “Financial instruments associated with
computers” include but are not limited to checks, drafts, warrants, money
orders, notes of indebtedness, certificates of deposit, letters of credit,
bills of credit or debit cards, financial transaction authorization mechanisms,
marketable securities, or any computer system representations of any of them.
      (2)   As used in this definition, “trade secret” has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 1333.61, and “telecommunications service” and “information service”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (3)   As used in this definition and in the definition of “contraband” in
this section, “cable television service”, “computer”, “computer network”,
“computer software”, “computer system”, “data”, and “telecommunications device”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   REPEAT OFFENDER. A person who has a history of persistent criminal activity
and whose character and condition reveal a substantial risk that he or she will
commit another offense. It is prima facie evidence that a person is a repeat
offender if any of the following applies:
      (1)   Having been convicted of one or more offenses of violence, as
defined in R.C. § 2901.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent offense of
violence;
      (2)   Having been convicted of one or more sexually oriented offenses, as
defined in R.C. § 2950.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent sexually oriented
offense;
      (3)   Having been convicted of one or more theft offenses, as defined in
R.C. § 2913.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for one or more
of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent theft offense;
      (4)   Having been convicted of one or more felony drug abuse offenses, as
defined in R.C. § 2925.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent felony drug abuse
offense;
      (5)   Having been convicted of two or more felonies, and having been
imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such offense, he or she commits a
subsequent offense;
      (6)   Having been convicted of three or more offenses of any type or
degree other than traffic offenses, alcoholic intoxication offenses, or minor
misdemeanors, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such
offense, he or she commits a subsequent offense.
   RISK. A significant possibility, as contrasted with a remote possibility,
that a certain result may occur or that certain circumstances may exist.
   SCHOOL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL ACTIVITY. Any activity held under the auspices of a board of
education of a city, local, exempted village, joint vocational, or cooperative
education school district; a governing authority of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314; a governing board of an educational
service center; or the governing body of a nonpublic school for which the
Director of Education and Workforce prescribes minimum standards under R.C. §
3301.07.
   SCHOOL BUILDING. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL BUS. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   SCHOOL PREMISES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL SAFETY ZONE. Consists of a school, school building, school premises,
school activity, and school bus.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any mental illness or condition of such gravity as would normally
require hospitalization or prolonged psychiatric treatment;
      (2)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death;
      (3)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent incapacity, whether
partial or total, or that involves some temporary, substantial incapacity;
      (4)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent disfigurement, or
that involves some temporary, serious disfigurement;
      (5)   Any physical harm that involves acute pain of such duration as to
result in substantial suffering, or that involves any degree of prolonged or
intractable pain.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY. Any physical harm to property that does
either of the following:
      (1)   Results in substantial loss to the value of the property, or
requires a substantial amount of time, effort, or money to repair or replace;
      (2)   Temporarily prevents the use or enjoyment of the property, or
substantially interferes with its use or enjoyment for an extended period of
time.
   SUBSTANTIAL RISK. A strong possibility, as contrasted with a remote or
significant possibility, that a certain result may occur or that certain
circumstances may exist.
(R.C. §§ 2901.01, 2935.36(E))
§ 130.03 CLASSIFICATION OF OFFENSES.
   As used in this Title:
   (A)   Offenses include misdemeanors of the first, second, third, and fourth
degree, minor misdemeanors, and offenses not specifically classified.
   (B)   Regardless of the penalty that may be imposed, any offense
specifically classified as a misdemeanor is a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Any offense not specifically classified is a misdemeanor if
imprisonment for not more than one year may be imposed as a penalty.
   (D)   Any offense not specifically classified is a minor misdemeanor if the
only penalty that may be imposed is one of the following:
      (1)   For an offense committed prior to January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding $100;
      (2)   For an offense committed on or after January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding $150, community service under R.C. § 2929.27(D), or a financial
sanction other than a fine under R.C. § 2929.28.
(R.C. § 2901.02)
§ 130.04 COMMON LAW OFFENSES ABROGATED.
   (A)   No conduct constitutes a criminal offense against the municipality
unless it is defined as an offense in this code.
   (B)   An offense is defined when one or more sections of this code state a
positive prohibition or enjoin a specific duty, and provide a penalty for
violation of such prohibition or failure to meet such duty.
   (C)   This section does not affect the power of a court to punish for
contempt or to employ any sanction authorized by law to enforce an order, civil
judgment or decree.
(R.C. § 2901.03)
§ 130.05 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) or (D) of this section,
sections of this code defining offenses or penalties shall be strictly
construed against the municipality and liberally construed in favor of the
accused.
   (B)   Rules of criminal procedure and sections of this code providing for
criminal procedure shall be construed so as to effect the fair, impartial,
speedy, and sure administration of justice.
   (C)   Any provision of a section of this code that refers to a previous
conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of a section of this code, the
Ohio Revised Code or a division of a section of this code or the Ohio Revised
Code shall be construed to also refer to a previous conviction of or plea of
guilty to a substantially equivalent offense under an existing or former law of
this municipality, state, another state, or the United States or under an
existing or former municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Any provision of this code that refers to a section, or to a division
of a section, of this code that defines or specifies a criminal offense shall
be construed to also refer to an existing or former law of this state, another
state, or the United States, to an existing or former municipal ordinance, or
to an existing or former division of any such existing or former law or
ordinance that defines or specifies, or that defined or specified, a
substantially equivalent offense.
(R.C. § 2901.04)
§ 130.06 LIMITATION OF CRIMINAL PROSECUTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5)
of this section or as otherwise provided in this section, a prosecution shall
be barred unless it is commenced within the following periods after an offense
is committed:
         (a)   For a felony, six years;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor other than a minor misdemeanor, two years;
         (c)   For a minor misdemeanor, six months.
      (2)   There is no period of limitation for the prosecution of a violation
of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02 or for the prosecution of a conspiracy to
commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in committing a violation of R.C. §
2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (B) through (J) of this
section, a prosecution of any of the following offenses shall be barred unless
it is commenced within 20 years after the offense is committed:
         (a)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.03, 2903.04, 2905.01, 2905.32,
2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.21, 2909.02, 2909.22, 2909.23, 2909.24, 2909.26,
2909.27, 2909.28, 2909.29, 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12, or 2917.02, a
violation of R.C. § 2903.11 or 2903.12 if the victim is a peace officer, a
violation of R.C. § 2903.13 that is a felony, or a violation of former R.C. §
2907.12.
         (b)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing a violation set forth in division (A)(3)(a) of this section.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (D) to (L) of this
section, a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 or a
conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in committing a
violation of either section shall be barred unless it is commenced within 25
years after the offense is committed.
      (5)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (A)(5)(b) and (E)
to (I) of this section, a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2907.13 shall be
barred unless it is commenced within five years after the offense is committed.
         (b)   Prosecution that would otherwise be barred under division (A)(5)
(a) of this section may be commenced within five years after the date of the
discovery of the offense by either an aggrieved person or the aggrieved
person’s legal representative who is not a party to the offense.
         (c)   As used in division (A)(5)(b) of this section, “aggrieved
person” includes any of the following individuals with regard to a violation of
R.C. § 2907.13:
            1.   A patient who was the victim of the violation;
            2.   The spouse or surviving spouse of a patient who was the victim
of the violation;
            3.   Any child born as a result of the violation.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) of this section,
if the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this
section has expired, prosecution shall be commenced for an offense of which an
element is fraud or breach of fiduciary duty within one year after discovery of
the offense either by an aggrieved person or by the aggrieved person’s legal
representative who is not a party to the offense.
      (2)   If the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)(3)
of this section has expired, prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 2913.49
shall be commenced within five years after discovery of the offense either by
an aggrieved person or the aggrieved person’s legal representative who is not a
party to the offense.
   (C)   (1)   If the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)
(3) of this section has expired, prosecution shall be commenced for the
following offenses during the following specified periods of time:
         (a)   For an offense involving misconduct in office by a public
servant at any time while the accused remains a public servant, or within two
years thereafter;
         (b)   For an offense by a person who is not a public servant but whose
offense is directly related to the misconduct in office of a public servant, at
any time while that public servant remains a public servant, or within two
years thereafter.
      (2)   As used in this division:
         OFFENSE IS DIRECTLY RELATED TO THE MISCONDUCT IN OFFICE OF A PUBLIC
SERVANT. The phrase includes but is not limited to a violation of R.C. §
101.71, 101.91, 121.61 or 2921.13, 102.03(F) or (H), 2921.02(A), 2921.43(A) or
(B), or 3517.13(F) or (G), that is directly related to an offense involving
misconduct in office of a public servant, or a violation of any municipal
ordinance substantially equivalent to those Ohio Revised Code sections listed
in this division (C)(2).
         PUBLIC SERVANT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.01.
   (D)   (1)   If a DNA record made in connection with the criminal
investigation of the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 is
determined to match another DNA record that is of an identifiable person and if
the time of the determination is later than 25 years after the offense is
committed, prosecution of that person for a violation of the section may be
commenced within five years after the determination is complete.
      (2)   If a DNA record made in connection with the criminal investigation
of the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 is determined to
match another DNA record that is of an identifiable person and if the time of
the determination is within 25 years after the offense is committed,
prosecution of that person for a violation of the section may be commenced
within the longer of 25 years after the offense is committed or five years
after the determination is complete.
      (3)   As used in this division, DNA RECORD has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 109.573.
   (E)   An offense is committed when every element of the offense occurs. In
the case of an offense of which an element is a continuing course of conduct,
the period of limitation does not begin to run until such course of conduct or
the accused’s accountability for it terminates, whichever occurs first.
   (F)   A prosecution is commenced on the date an indictment is returned or an
information filed, or on the date a lawful arrest without a warrant is made, or
on the date a warrant, summons, citation, or other process is issued, whichever
occurs first. A prosecution is not commenced by the return of an indictment or
the filing of an information unless reasonable diligence is exercised to issue
and execute process on the same. A prosecution is not commenced upon issuance
of a warrant, summons, citation, or other process unless reasonable diligence
is exercised to execute the same.
   (G)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the corpus
delicti remains undiscovered.
   (H)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the
accused purposely avoids prosecution. Proof that the accused departed this
municipality or conceals the accused’s identity or whereabouts is prima facie
evidence of the accused’s purpose to avoid prosecution.
   (I)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time a prosecution
against the accused based on the same conduct is pending in this state, even
though the indictment, information, or process that commenced the prosecution
is quashed or the proceedings on the indictment, information, or process are
set aside or reversed on appeal.
   (J)   The period of limitation for a violation of this Title XIII or Title
XXIX of the Ohio Revised Code that involves a physical or mental wound, injury,
disability, or condition of a nature that reasonably indicates abuse or neglect
of a child under 18 years of age or of a child with a developmental disability
or physical impairment under 21 years of age shall not begin to run until
either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The victim of the offense reaches the age of majority.
      (2)   A public children services agency, or a municipal or county peace
officer that is not the parent or guardian of the child, in the county in which
the child resides or in which the abuse or neglect is occurring or has occurred
has been notified that abuse or neglect is known, suspected, or believed to
have occurred.
   (K)   As used in this section, PEACE OFFICER has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2935.01.
   (L)   (1)   The amendments to divisions (A) and (D) of this section that
took effect on July 16, 2015, apply to a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03
committed on and after July 16, 2015, and apply to a violation of either of
those sections committed prior to July 16, 2015, if prosecution for that
violation was not barred under this section as it existed on July 16, 2015.
      (2)   The amendment to division (A)(2) of this section that took effect
on April 4, 2023, applies to a conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or
complicity in committing a violation of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02 if the
conspiracy, attempt, or complicity is committed on or after April 4, 2023, and
applies to a conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing a violation of either of those sections if the conspiracy, attempt,
or complicity was committed prior to April 4, 2023, and prosecution for that
conspiracy, attempt, or complicity was not barred under this section as it
existed on the day prior to April 4, 2023.
(R.C. § 2901.13)
Statutory reference:
   Limitation for income tax violations, see R.C. § 718.12
§ 130.07 REQUIREMENTS FOR CRIMINAL LIABILITY; VOLUNTARY INTOXICATION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, a person is not
guilty of an offense unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person’s liability is based on conduct that includes either a
voluntary act, or an omission to perform an act or duty that the person is
capable of performing;
      (2)   The person has the requisite degree of culpability for each element
as to which a culpable mental state is specified by the language defining the
offense.
   (B)   When the language defining an offense does not specify any degree of
culpability, and plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict criminal
liability for the conduct described in the section, then culpability is not
required for a person to be guilty of the offense. The fact that one division
of a section plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict liability for an
offense defined in that division does not by itself plainly indicate a purpose
to impose strict criminal liability for an offense defined in other divisions
of the section that do not specify a degree of culpability.
   (C)   (1)   When language defining an element of an offense that is related
to knowledge or intent or to which mens rea could fairly be applied neither
specifies culpability nor plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict
liability, the element of the offense is established only if a person acts
recklessly.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to offenses defined
in R.C. Title XLV.
      (3)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not relieve the prosecution of
the burden of proving the culpable mental state required by any definition
incorporated into the offense.
   (D)   Voluntary intoxication may not be taken into consideration in
determining the existence of a mental state that is an element of a criminal
offense. Voluntary intoxication does not relieve a person of a duty to act if
failure to act constitutes a criminal offense. Evidence that a person was
voluntarily intoxicated may be admissible to show whether or not the person was
physically capable of performing the act with which the person is charged.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      CULPABILITY. Means purpose, knowledge, recklessness, or negligence, as
defined in R.C. § 2901.22.
      INTOXICATION. Includes but is not limited to intoxication resulting from
the ingestion of alcohol, a drug, or alcohol and a drug.
      INVOLUNTARY ACTS. Means reflexes, convulsions, body movements during
unconsciousness or sleep, and body movements that are not otherwise a product
of the actor’s volition are involuntary acts.
      POSSESSION. Means a voluntary act if the possessor knowingly procured or
received the thing possessed, or was aware of the possessor’s control of the
thing possessed for a sufficient time to have ended possession.
(R.C. § 2901.21)
§ 130.08 CULPABLE MENTAL STATES.
   (A)   A person acts purposely when it is the person’s specific intention to
cause a certain result, or, when the gist of the offense is a prohibition
against conduct of a certain nature, regardless of what the offender intends to
accomplish thereby, it is the offender’s specific intention to engage in
conduct of that nature.
   (B)   A person acts knowingly, regardless of purpose, when the person is
aware that the person’s conduct will probably cause a certain result or will
probably be of a certain nature. A person has knowledge of circumstances when
the person is aware that such circumstances probably exist. When knowledge of
the existence of a particular fact is an element of an offense, such knowledge
is established if a person subjectively believes that there is a high
probability of its existence and fails to make inquiry or acts with a conscious
purpose to avoid learning the fact.
   (C)   A person acts recklessly when, with heedless indifference to the
consequences, the person disregards a substantial and unjustifiable risk that
the person’s conduct is likely to cause a certain result or is likely to be of
a certain nature. A person is reckless with respect to circumstances when, with
heedless indifference to the consequences, the person disregards a substantial
and unjustifiable risk that such circumstances are likely to exist.
   (D)   A person acts negligently when, because of a substantial lapse from
due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that the person’s
conduct may cause a certain result or may be of a certain nature. A person is
negligent with respect to circumstances when, because of a substantial lapse
from due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that such
circumstances may exist.
   (E)   When the section defining an offense provides that negligence suffices
to establish an element thereof, then recklessness, knowledge, or purpose is
also sufficient culpability for such element. When recklessness suffices to
establish an element of an offense, then knowledge or purpose is also
sufficient culpability for such element. When knowledge suffices to establish
an element of an offense, then purpose is also sufficient culpability for such
element.
(R.C. § 2901.22)
§ 130.09 ORGANIZATIONAL CRIMINAL LIABILITY.
   (A)   An organization may be convicted of an offense under any of the
following circumstances:
      (1)   The offense is a minor misdemeanor committed by an officer, agent,
or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s office or employment, except that if the
section defining the offense designates the officers, agents, or employees for
whose conduct the organization is accountable or the circumstances under which
it is accountable, those provisions shall apply.
      (2)   A purpose to impose organizational liability plainly appears in the
section defining the offense, and the offense is committed by an officer,
agent, or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the
scope of the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s office or employment, except
that if the section defining the offense designates the officers, agents, or
employees for whose conduct the organization is accountable or the
circumstances under which it is accountable, those provisions shall apply.
      (3)   The offense consists of an omission to discharge a specific duty
imposed by law on the organization.
      (4)   If, acting with the kind of culpability otherwise required for the
commission of the offense, its commission was authorized, requested, commanded,
tolerated, or performed by the board of directors, trustees, partners, or by a
high managerial officer, agent, or employee acting in behalf of the
organization and within the scope of such a board’s or person’s office or
employment.
   (B)   If strict liability is imposed for the commission of an offense, a
purpose to impose organizational liability shall be presumed, unless the
contrary plainly appears.
   (C)   In a prosecution of an organization for an offense other than one for
which strict liability is imposed, it is a defense that the high managerial
officer, agent, or employee having supervisory responsibility over the subject
matter of the offense exercised due diligence to prevent its commission. This
defense is not available if it plainly appears inconsistent with the purpose of
the section defining the offense.
   (D)   As used in this section, ORGANIZATION means a corporation for profit
or not for profit, partnership, limited partnership, joint venture,
unincorporated nonprofit association, estate, trust, or other commercial or
legal entity. The term does not include an entity organized as or by a
governmental agency for the execution of a governmental program.
(R.C. § 2901.23)
§ 130.10 PERSONAL ACCOUNTABILITY FOR ORGANIZATIONAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   An officer, agent, or employee of an organization, as defined in R.C.
§ 2901.23, may be prosecuted for an offense committed by such organization, if
he or she acts with the kind of culpability required for the commission of the
offense, and any of the following apply:
      (1)   In the name of the organization or in its behalf, he or she engages
in conduct constituting the offense, or causes another to engage in such
conduct, or tolerates such conduct when it is of a type for which he or she has
direct responsibility;
      (2)   He or she has primary responsibility to discharge a duty imposed on
the organization by law, and such duty is not discharged.
   (B)   When a person is convicted of an offense by reason of this section, he
or she is subject to the same penalty as if he or she had acted in his or her
own behalf.
(R.C. § 2901.24)
 
§ 130.11 ATTEMPT.
   (A)   No person, purposely or knowingly, and when purpose or knowledge is
sufficient culpability for the commission of an offense, shall engage in
conduct that, if successful, would constitute or result in the offense.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that, in retrospect,
commission of the offense that was the object of the attempt was either
factually or legally impossible under the attendant circumstances, if that
offense could have been committed had the attendant circumstances been as the
actor believed them to be.
   (C)   No person who is convicted of committing a specific offense, of
complicity in the commission of an offense, or of conspiracy to commit an
offense, shall be convicted of an attempt to commit the same offense in
violation of this section.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
actor abandoned his or her effort to commit the offense or otherwise prevented
its commission, under circumstances manifesting a complete and voluntary
renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an attempt to commit an
offense. An attempt to commit aggravated murder, murder, or an offense for
which the maximum penalty is imprisonment for life is a felony of the first
degree, to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to commit a
drug abuse offense for which the penalty is determined by the amount or number
of unit doses of the controlled substance involved in the drug abuse offense is
an offense of the same degree as the drug abuse offense attempted would be if
that drug abuse offense had been committed and had involved an amount or number
of unit doses of the controlled substance that is within the next lower range
of controlled substance amounts than was involved in the attempt. An attempt to
commit any other offense is an offense of the next lesser degree than the
offense attempted. In the case of an attempt to commit an offense other than a
violation of R.C. Chapter 3734 that is not specifically classified, an attempt
is a misdemeanor of the first degree if the offense attempted is a felony, and
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the offense attempted is a misdemeanor.
In the case of an attempt to commit a violation of any provision of R.C.
Chapter 3734, other than R.C. § 3734.18, that relates to hazardous wastes, an
attempt is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to
commit a minor misdemeanor, or to engage in conspiracy, is not an offense under
this section.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
(R.C. § 2923.02)
Statutory reference:
   Conspiracy, see R.C. § 2923.01
   Solid and hazardous wastes, see R.C. Chapter 3734
§ 130.12 COMPLICITY.
   (A)   No person, acting with the kind of culpability required for the
commission of an offense, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Solicit or procure another to commit the offense;
      (2)   Aid or abet another in committing the offense;
      (3)   Conspire with another to commit the offense in violation of R.C. §
2923.01;
      (4)   Cause an innocent or irresponsible person to commit the offense.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that no person with
whom the accused was in complicity has been convicted as a principal offender.
   (C)   No person shall be convicted of complicity under this section unless
an offense is actually committed, but a person may be convicted of complicity
in an attempt to commit an offense in violation of R.C. § 2923.02 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   If an alleged accomplice of the defendant testifies against the
defendant in a case in which the defendant is charged with complicity in the
commission of or an attempt to commit an offense, an attempt to commit an
offense, or an offense, the court shall charge the jury in accordance with R.C.
§ 2923.03(D).
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that,
prior to the commission of or attempt to commit the offense, the actor
terminated his or her complicity, under circumstances manifesting a complete
and voluntary renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of complicity in the
commission of an offense, and shall be prosecuted and punished as if he or she
were a principal offender. A charge of complicity may be stated in terms of
this section, or in terms of the principal offense.
(R.C. § 2923.03)
Statutory reference:
   Conspiracy, see R.C. § 2923.01
§ 130.13 PRESUMPTION OF INNOCENCE; PROOF OF OFFENSE; AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE.
   (A)   Every person accused of an offense is presumed innocent until proven
guilty beyond a reasonable doubt, and the burden of proof for all elements of
the offense is upon the prosecution. The burden of going forward with the
evidence of an affirmative defense, and the burden of proof by a preponderance
of the evidence, for an affirmative defense other than self-defense, defense of
another, or defense of the accused’s residence presented as described in
division (B)(1) of this section, is upon the accused.
   (B)   (1)   A person is allowed to act in self-defense, defense of another,
or defense of that person’s residence. If, at the trial of a person who is
accused of an offense that involved the person’s use of force against another,
there is evidence presented that tends to support that the accused person used
the force in self-defense, defense of another, or defense of that person’s
residence, the prosecution must prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the
accused person did not use the force in self-defense, defense of another, or
defense of that person’s residence, as the case may be.
      (2)   Subject to division (B)(3) of this section, a person is presumed to
have acted in self-defense or defense of another when using defensive force
that is intended or likely to cause death or great bodily harm to another if
the person against whom the defensive force is used is in the process of
unlawfully and without privilege to do so entering, or has unlawfully and
without privilege to do so entered, the residence or vehicle occupied by the
person using the defensive force.
      (3)   The presumption set forth in division (B)(2) of this section does
not apply if either of the following is true:
         (a)   The person against whom the defensive force is used has a right
to be in, or is a lawful resident of, the residence or vehicle.
         (b)   The person who uses the defensive force uses it while in a
residence or vehicle and the person is unlawfully, and without privilege to be,
in that residence or vehicle.
      (4)   The presumption set forth in division (B)(2) of this section is a
rebuttable presumption and may be rebutted by a preponderance of the evidence,
provided that the prosecution’s burden of proof remains proof beyond a
reasonable doubt as described in divisions (A) and (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   As part of its charge to the jury in a criminal case, the court shall
read the definitions of “reasonable doubt” and “proof beyond a reasonable
doubt”, contained in division (E) of this section.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE. An affirmative defense is either of the following:
         (a)   A defense expressly designated as affirmative;
         (b)   A defense involving an excuse or justification peculiarly within
the knowledge of the accused, on which the accused can fairly be required to
adduce supporting evidence.
      DWELLING. Means a building or conveyance of any kind that has a roof over
it and that is designed to be occupied by people lodging in the building or
conveyance at night, regardless of whether the building or conveyance is
temporary or permanent or is mobile or immobile. As used in this division, a
building or conveyance includes but is not limited to an attached porch, and a
building or conveyance with a roof over it includes but is not limited to a
tent.
      RESIDENCE. Means a dwelling in which a person resides either temporarily
or permanently or is visiting as a guest.
      VEHICLE. Means a conveyance of any kind, whether or not motorized, that
is designed to transport people or property.
   (E)   “Reasonable doubt” is present when the jurors, after they have
carefully considered and compared all the evidence, cannot say they are firmly
convinced of the truth of the charge. It is a doubt based on reasonable and
common sense. Reasonable doubt is not mere possible doubt, because everything
relating to human affairs or depending on moral evidence is open to some
possible or imaginary doubt. “Proof beyond a reasonable doubt” is proof of such
character that an ordinary person would be willing to rely and act upon it in
the most important of the person's own affairs.
(R.C. § 2901.05)
§ 130.14 BATTERED WOMAN SYNDROME.
   (A)   The municipality hereby declares that it recognizes both of the
following, in relation to the “battered woman syndrome”: that the syndrome
currently is a matter of commonly accepted scientific knowledge, and that the
subject matter and details of the syndrome are not within the general
understanding or experience of a person who is a member of the general populace
and are not within the field of common knowledge.
   (B)   If a person is charged with an offense involving the use of force
against another and the person, as a defense to the offense charged, raises the
affirmative defense of self defense, the person may introduce expert testimony
of the “battered woman syndrome” and expert testimony that the person suffered
from that syndrome as evidence to establish the requisite belief of an imminent
danger of death or great bodily harm that is necessary, as an element of the
affirmative defense, to justify the person’s use of force in question. The
introduction of any expert testimony under this division shall be in accordance
with the Ohio Rules of Evidence.
(R.C. § 2901.06)
§ 130.15 DELINQUENCY ADJUDICATIONS DEEMED CONVICTIONS.
   (A)   If a person is alleged to have committed an offense and if the person
previously has been adjudicated a delinquent child or juvenile traffic offender
for a violation of a law or ordinance, except as provided in division (B) of
this section, the adjudication as a delinquent child or as a juvenile traffic
offender is a conviction for a violation of the law for purposes of determining
the offense with which the person should be charged and, if the person is
convicted of or pleads guilty to an offense, the sentence to be imposed upon
the person relative to the conviction or guilty plea.
   (B)   A previous adjudication of a person as a delinquent child or juvenile
traffic offender for a violation of a law or ordinance is not a conviction for
a violation of the law or ordinance for purposes of determining any of the
following:
      (1)   Whether the person is a repeat violent offender, as defined in R.C.
§ 2929.01, or whether the person should be sentenced as a repeat violent
offender under R.C. § 2929.14(B)(2) and R.C. § 2941.149;
      (2)    Whether the person is a violent career criminal as defined in R.C.
§ 2923.132, whether the person has committed unlawful use of a weapon by a
violent career criminal in violation of R.C. § 2923.132 or should be sentenced
for that offense under that section, or whether the person should be sentenced
under R.C. § 2929.14(K) as a violent career criminal who had a firearm on or
about the person’s person or under the person’s control while committing a
violent felony offense and displayed or brandished the firearm, indicated that
the offender possessed a firearm, or used the firearm to facilitate the
offense.
(R.C. § 2901.08)
§ 130.16 CRIMINAL LAW JURISDICTION.
   (A)   A person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in this
municipality if any of the following occur:
      (1)   The person commits an offense under the laws of this municipality,
any element of which takes place in this municipality;
      (2)   While in this municipality, the person attempts to commit, or is
guilty of complicity in the commission of, an offense in another jurisdiction,
which offense is an offense under both the laws of this municipality and the
other jurisdiction, or, while in this municipality, the person conspires to
commit an offense in another jurisdiction, which offense is an offense under
both the laws of this municipality and the other jurisdiction, and a
substantial overt act in furtherance of the conspiracy is undertaken in this
municipality by the person or another person involved in the conspiracy,
subsequent to the person’s entrance into the conspiracy. In any case in which a
person attempts to commit, is guilty of complicity in the commission of, or
conspires to commit an offense in another jurisdiction as described in this
division, the person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in this
municipality for the attempt, complicity, or conspiracy, and for any resulting
offense that is committed or completed in the other jurisdiction;
      (3)   While out of this municipality, the person conspires or attempts to
commit, or is guilty of complicity in the commission of, an offense in this
municipality;
      (4)   While out of this municipality, the person omits to perform a legal
duty imposed by the laws of this municipality, which omission affects a
legitimate interest of the municipality in protecting, governing or regulating
any person, property, thing, transaction, or activity in this municipality;
      (5)   While out of this municipality, the person unlawfully takes or
retains property and subsequently brings any of the unlawfully taken or
retained property into this municipality;
      (6)   While out of this municipality, the person unlawfully takes or
entices another person and subsequently brings the other person into this
municipality;
      (7)   The person, by means of a computer, computer system, computer
network, telecommunication, telecommunications device, telecommunications
service, or information service, causes or knowingly permits any writing, data,
image or other telecommunication to be disseminated or transmitted into this
municipality in violation of the law of this state or municipality.
   (B)   In homicide, the element referred to in division (A)(1) of this
section includes the act that causes death, the physical contact that causes
death, the death itself, or any other element that is set forth in the offense
in question. If any part of the body of a homicide victim is found in this
municipality, the death is presumed to have occurred within this municipality.
   (C)   (1)   This municipality includes the land and water within its
boundaries and the air space above that land and water, with respect to which
this municipality has either exclusive or concurrent legislative jurisdiction.
Where the boundary between this municipality and another jurisdiction is
disputed, the disputed territory is conclusively presumed to be within this
municipality for purposes of this section.
      (2)   The courts of common pleas of Adams, Athens, Belmont, Brown,
Clermont, Columbiana, Gallia, Hamilton, Jefferson, Lawrence, Meigs, Monroe,
Scioto, and Washington counties have jurisdiction beyond the north or northwest
shore of the Ohio River extending to the opposite shore line, between the
extended boundary lines of any adjacent counties or adjacent state. Each of
those courts of common pleas has concurrent jurisdiction on the Ohio River with
any adjacent court of common pleas that borders on that river and with any
court of Kentucky or of West Virginia that borders on the Ohio River and that
has jurisdiction on the Ohio River under the law of Kentucky or the law of West
Virginia, whichever is applicable, or under federal law.
   (D)   When an offense is committed under the laws of this municipality, and
it appears beyond a reasonable doubt that the offense or any element of the
offense took place either in this municipality or in another jurisdiction or
jurisdictions, but it cannot reasonably be determined in which it took place,
the offense or element is conclusively presumed to have taken place in this
municipality for purposes of this section.
   (E)   When a person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in
this municipality for an offense committed or completed outside this
municipality, the person is subject to all specifications for that offense that
would be applicable if the offense had been committed within this municipality.
   (F)   Any act, conduct, or element that is a basis of a person being subject
under this section to criminal prosecution and punishment in this municipality
need not be committed personally by the person as long as it is committed by
another person who is in complicity or conspiracy with the person.
   (G)   This section shall be liberally construed, consistent with
constitutional limitations, to allow this municipality the broadest possible
jurisdiction over offenses and persons committing offenses in, or affecting,
this municipality.
   (H)   For purposes of division (A)(2) of this section, an overt act is
substantial when it is of a character that manifests a purpose on the part of
the actor that the object of the conspiracy should be completed.
   (I)   As used in this section, COMPUTER, COMPUTER SYSTEM, COMPUTER NETWORK,
INFORMATION SERVICE, TELECOMMUNICATION, TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE,
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE, DATA and WRITING have the same meanings as in R.C.
§ 2913.01.
(R.C. § 2901.11)
Statutory reference:
   State criminal law jurisdiction, see R.C. § 2901.11
§ 130.17 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED OR FORFEITED PROPERTY HELD BY POLICE
DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Safekeeping of property in custody.
      (1)   (a)   Any property that has been lost, abandoned, stolen, seized
pursuant to a search warrant, or otherwise lawfully seized or forfeited and
that is in the custody of the Police Department shall be kept safely by the
Police Department, pending the time it no longer is needed as evidence or for
another lawful purpose, and shall be disposed of pursuant to this section or
R.C. §§ 2981.12 and 2981.13.
         (b)   This section does not apply to the custody and disposal of any
of the following:
            1.   Vehicles subject to forfeiture under R.C. Title 45, except as
provided in division (B)(1)(f) of this section;
            2.   Abandoned junk motor vehicles or other property of negligible
value;
            3.   Property held by a department of rehabilitation and correction
institution that is unclaimed, that does not have an identified owner, that the
owner agrees to dispose of, or that is identified by the department as having
little value;
            4.   Animals taken, and devices used in unlawfully taking animals,
under R.C. § 1531.20;
            5.   Controlled substances sold by a peace officer in the
performance of the officer’s official duties under R.C. § 3719.141;
            6.   Property recovered by a township law enforcement agency under
R.C. §§ 505.105 to 505.109;
            7.   Property held and disposed of under an ordinance of the
municipality or under R.C. §§ 737.29 to 737.33, except that if the municipality
has received notice of a citizens’ reward program as provided in division (B)
(5) of this section and disposes of property under an ordinance shall pay 25%
of any moneys acquired from any sale or auction to the citizens’ reward
program.
      (2)   (a)   The Police Department shall adopt and comply with a written
internal control policy that does all of the following:
            1.   Provides for keeping detailed records as to the amount of
property acquired by the Police Department and the date property was acquired;
            2.   Provides for keeping detailed records of the disposition of
the property, which shall include but not be limited to both of the following:
               a.   The manner in which it was disposed, the date of
disposition, detailed financial records concerning any property sold, and the
name of any person who received the property. The record shall not identify or
enable identification of the individual officer who seized any item of
property.
               b.   An itemized list of the specific expenditures made with
amounts that are gained from the sale of the property and that are retained by
the agency, including the specific amount expended on each expenditure, except
that the policy shall not provide for or permit the identification of any
specific expenditure that is made in an ongoing investigation.
            3.   Complies with R.C. § 2981.13 if the Police Department has a
Law Enforcement Trust Fund or similar fund created under that section.
         (b)   The records kept under the internal control policy shall be open
to public inspection during the Police Department’s regular business hours. The
policy adopted under this section is a public record open for inspection under
R.C. § 149.43.
      (3)   The Police Department, with custody of property to be disposed of
under this section or R.C. §§ 2981.12 or 2981.13, shall make a reasonable
effort to locate persons entitled to possession of the property, to notify them
of when and where it may be claimed, and to return the property to them at the
earliest possible time. In the absence of evidence identifying persons entitled
to possession, it is sufficient notice to advertise in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county and to briefly describe the nature of the property in
custody and inviting persons to view and establish their right to it.
      (4)   As used in this section:
         CITIZENS’ REWARD PROGRAM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 9.92.
         LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. Includes correctional institutions.
         TOWNSHIP LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. Means an organized police department
of a township, a township police district, a joint police district, or the
office of a township constable.
(R.C. § 2981.11)
   (B)   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property.
      (1)   Unclaimed or forfeited property in the custody of the Police
Department, other than property described in division (A)(1)(b) of this
section, shall be disposed of by order of any court of record that has
territorial jurisdiction over the municipality, as follows:
         (a)   Drugs shall be disposed of pursuant to R.C. § 3719.11 or placed
in the custody of the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States for
disposal or use for medical or scientific purposes under applicable federal
law.
         (b)   Firearms and dangerous ordnance suitable for police work may be
given to a law enforcement agency for that purpose. Firearms suitable for
sporting use or as museum pieces or collectors’ items may be sold at public
auction pursuant to division (B)(2) of this section. The Police Department may
sell other firearms and dangerous ordnance to a federally licensed firearms
dealer in a manner that the court considers proper. The Police Department shall
destroy any firearms or dangerous ordnance not given to a law enforcement
agency or sold or shall send them to the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation for destruction by the Bureau.
         (c)   Obscene materials shall be destroyed.
         (d)   Beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol seized from a person who
does not hold a permit issued under R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303 or otherwise
forfeited to the state for an offense under R.C. § 4301.45 or R.C. § 4301.53
shall be sold by the Division of Liquor Control if the Division determines that
it is fit for sale or shall be placed in the custody of the Investigations Unit
in the Ohio Department of Public Safety and be used for training relating to
law enforcement activities. The Ohio Department of Public Safety, with the
assistance of the Division of Liquor Control, shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 to provide for the distribution to state or local law
enforcement agencies upon their request. If any tax imposed under R.C. Title 43
has not been paid in relation to the beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol, any
moneys acquired from the sale shall first be used to pay the tax. All other
money collected under this division (B)(1)(d) shall be paid into the State
Treasury. Any beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol that the Division
determines to be unfit for sale shall be destroyed.
         (e)   Money received by an inmate of a correctional institution from
an unauthorized source or in an unauthorized manner shall be returned to the
sender, if known, or deposited in the Inmates’ Industrial and Entertainment
Fund of the institution if the sender is not known.
         (f)   1.   Any mobile instrumentality forfeited under R.C. Chapter
2981 may be given to the law enforcement agency that initially seized the
mobile instrumentality for use in performing its duties, if the agency wants
the mobile instrumentality. The agency shall take the mobile instrumentality
subject to any security interest or lien on the mobile instrumentality.
            2.   Vehicles and vehicle parts forfeited under R.C. §§ 4549.61 to
4549.63 may be given to a law enforcement agency for use in performing its
duties. Those parts may be incorporated into any other official vehicle. Parts
that do not bear vehicle identification numbers or derivatives of them may be
sold or disposed of as provided by rules of the Director of Public Safety.
Parts from which a vehicle identification number or derivative of it has been
removed, defaced, covered, altered, or destroyed and that are not suitable for
police work or incorporation into an official vehicle shall be destroyed and
sold as junk or scrap.
         (g)   Computers, computer networks, computer systems, and computer
software suitable for police work may be given to a law enforcement agency for
that purpose or disposed of under division (B)(2) of this section.
         (h)   Money seized in connection with a violation of R.C. § 2905.32,
2907.21, or 2907.22 shall be deposited in the Victims of Human Trafficking Fund
created by R.C. § 5101.87.
      (2)   Unclaimed or forfeited property that is not described in division
(B)(1) of this section or division (A)(1)(b) of this section, with court
approval, may be used by the law enforcement agency in possession of it. If it
is not used by the agency, it may be sold without appraisal at a public auction
to the highest bidder for cash or disposed of in another manner that the court
considers proper.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(5) of this section
and after compliance with division (B)(4) of this section when applicable, any
moneys acquired from the sale of property disposed of pursuant to this section
shall be placed in the General Revenue Fund of the state, or the General Fund
of the municipality.
      (4)   If the property was in the possession of the Police Department in
relation to a delinquent child proceeding in a juvenile court, 10% of any
moneys acquired from the sale of property disposed of under this section shall
be applied to one or more community addiction services providers, as defined in
R.C. § 5119.01. A juvenile court shall not specify a services provider, except
as provided in this division, unless the services provider is in the same
county as the court or in a contiguous county. If no services provider is
located in any of those counties, the juvenile court may specify a services
provider anywhere in Ohio. The remaining 90% of the proceeds or cash shall be
applied as provided in division (B)(3) of this section.
      (5)   (a)   If the Board of County Commissioners recognizes a citizens’
reward program under R.C. § 9.92, the Board shall notify the Police Department
of the recognition by filing a copy of its resolution conferring that
recognition with the Police Department. When the Board recognizes a citizens’
reward program and the county includes a part, but not all, of the territory of
the municipality, the Board shall so notify the Police Department of the
recognition of the citizens’ reward program only if the county contains the
highest percentage of the municipality’s population.
         (b)   Upon being so notified, the Police Department shall pay 25% of
any forfeited proceeds or cash derived from each sale of property disposed of
pursuant to this section to the citizens’ reward program for use exclusively to
pay rewards. No part of the funds may be used to pay expenses associated with
the program. If a citizens’ reward program that operates in more than one
county or in another state in addition to this state receives funds under this
section, the funds shall be used to pay rewards only for tips and information
to law enforcement agencies concerning offenses committed in the county from
which the funds were received.
      (6)   Any property forfeited under R.C. Chapter 2981 not be used to pay
any fine imposed upon a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty to an
underlying criminal offense or a different offense arising out of the same
facts and circumstances.
      (7)   Any moneys acquired from the sale of personal effects, tools, or
other property seized because the personal effects, tools, or other property
were used in the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2905.32, 2907.21, or
2907.22 or derived from the proceeds of the commission of a violation of R.C. §
2905.32, 2907.21, or 2907.22 and disposed of pursuant to this division (B)
shall be placed in the Victims of Human Trafficking Fund created by R.C. §
5101.87.
(R.C. § 2981.12)
   (C)   Disposition of contraband, proceeds, or instrumentalities. Except as
otherwise provided in R.C. § 2981.13, property ordered forfeited as contraband,
proceeds, or an instrumentality pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2981 shall be disposed
of, used, or sold pursuant to division (B) of this section or R.C. § 2981.12.
If the property is to be sold under division (B) of this section or R.C. §
2981.12, the prosecutor shall cause notice of the proposed sale to be given in
accordance with law.
(R.C. § 2981.13(A))
Statutory reference:
   Forfeiture of property generally, see R.C. Chapter 2981
§ 130.18 IMPOSING SENTENCE FOR MISDEMEANOR.
   (A)   (1)   Unless a mandatory jail term is required to be imposed by R.C. §
1547.99(G), 4510.14(B), or 4511.19(G), or any other provision of the Ohio
Revised Code, or any municipal ordinance, a court that imposes a sentence under
this chapter upon an offender for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor has
discretion to determine the most effective way to achieve the purposes and
principles of sentencing set forth in §
130.99(B).
      (2)   Unless a specific sanction is required to be imposed or is
precluded from being imposed by the section setting forth an offense or the
penalty for an offense or by any provision of §
130.99 or 133.99 of this code or R.C. §§ 2929.23 through 2929.28, a court that
imposes a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor may impose on the
offender any sanction or combination of sanctions under §
130.99(C) through (G). The court shall not impose a sentence that imposes an
unnecessary burden on local government resources.
   (B)   (1)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, the
court shall consider all of the following factors:
         (a)   The nature and circumstances of the offense or offenses;
         (b)   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense
or offenses indicate that the offender has a history of persistent criminal
activity and that the offender’s character and condition reveal a substantial
risk that the offender will commit another offense;
         (c)   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense
or offenses indicate that the offender’s history, character, and condition
reveal a substantial risk that the offender will be a danger to others and that
the offender’s conduct has been characterized by a pattern of repetitive,
compulsive, or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to the
consequences;
         (d)   Whether the victim’s youth, age, disability, or other factor
made the victim particularly vulnerable to the offense or made the impact of
the offense more serious;
         (e)   Whether the offender is likely to commit future crimes in
general, in addition to the circumstances described in divisions (B)(1)(b) and
(B)(1)(c) of this section;
         (f)   Whether the offender has an emotional, mental, or physical
condition that is traceable to the offender’s service in the armed forces of
the United States and that was a contributing factor in the offender’s
commission of the offense or offenses;
         (g)   The offender’s military service record.
      (2)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, in
addition to complying with division (B)(1) of this section, the court may
consider any other factors that are relevant to achieving the purposes and
principles of sentencing set forth in §
130.99(B).
   (C)   Before imposing a jail term as a sentence for a misdemeanor, a court
shall consider the appropriateness of imposing a community control sanction or
a combination of community control sanctions under §
130.99(D), (E), (F), and (G). A court may impose the longest jail term
authorized under §
130.99(C) only upon offenders who commit the worst forms of the offense or upon
offenders whose conduct and response to prior sanctions for prior offenses
demonstrate that the imposition of the longest jail term is necessary to deter
the offender from committing a future criminal offense.
   (D)   (1)   A sentencing court shall consider any relevant oral and written
statement made by the victim, the victim’s representative, the victim’s
attorney, if applicable, the defendant, the defense attorney, and the
prosecuting authority regarding sentencing for a misdemeanor. This division
does not create any rights to notice other than those rights authorized by R.C.
Chapter 2930.
      (2)   At the time of sentencing for a misdemeanor or as soon as possible
after sentencing, the court shall notify the victim of the offense of the
victim’s right to file an application for an award of reparations pursuant to
R.C. §§ 2743.51 through 2743.72.
(R.C. § 2929.22)
§ 130.19 MULTIPLE SENTENCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, R.C. § 2929.14(C),
or R.C. § 2971.03(D) or (E), a prison term, jail term, or sentence of
imprisonment shall be served concurrently with any other prison term, jail
term, or sentence of imprisonment imposed by a court of this municipality, this
state, another state, or the United States. Except as provided in division (B)
(2) of this section, a jail term or sentence of imprisonment for misdemeanor
shall be served concurrently with a prison term or sentence of imprisonment for
felony served in a state or federal correctional institution.
   (B)   (1)   A jail term or sentence of imprisonment for a misdemeanor shall
be served consecutively to any other prison term, jail term, or sentence of
imprisonment when the trial court specifies that it is to be served
consecutively or when it is imposed for a misdemeanor violation of R.C. §
2907.322, 2921.34 or 2923.131. When consecutive sentences are imposed for
misdemeanors under this division, the term to be served is the aggregate of the
consecutive terms imposed, except that the aggregate term to be served shall
not exceed 18 months.
      (2)   A jail term or sentence of imprisonment imposed for a misdemeanor
violation of R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.14, 4510.16, 4510.21, or 4511.19, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be served consecutively to
a prison term that is imposed for a felony violation of R.C. § 2903.06,
2903.07, 2903.08 or 4511.19 or a felony violation of R.C. § 2903.04 involving
the operation of a motor vehicle by the offender and that is served in a state
correctional institution when the trial court specifies that it is to be served
consecutively. When consecutive jail terms or sentences of imprisonment and
prison terms are imposed for one or more misdemeanors and one or more felonies
under this division, the term to be served is the aggregate of the consecutive
terms imposed, and the offender shall serve all terms imposed for a felony
before serving any term imposed for a misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2929.41)
§ 130.20 APPREHENSION, DETENTION, OR ARREST OF PERSON ON BOND.
   (A)   No person, other than a law enforcement officer, shall apprehend,
detain, or arrest a principal on bond, wherever issued, unless that person
meets all of the following criteria:
      (1)   The person is any of the following:
         (a)   Qualified, licensed, and appointed as a surety bail bond agent
under R.C. §§ 3905.83 through 3905.95;
         (b)   Licensed as a surety bail bond agent by the state where the bond
was written;
         (c)   Licensed as a private investigator under R.C. Chapter 4749;
         (d)   Licensed as a private investigator by the state where the bond
was written;
         (e)   An off-duty peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 2921.51.
      (2)   The person, prior to apprehending, detaining, or arresting the
principal, has entered into a written contract with the surety or with a
licensed surety bail bond agent appointed by the surety, which contract sets
forth the name of the principal who is to be apprehended, detained, or
arrested. For purposes of this division (A)(2), SURETY has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 3905.83.
      (3)   The person, prior to apprehending, detaining, or arresting the
principal, has notified the local law enforcement agency having jurisdiction
over the area in which such activities will be performed and has provided any
form or identification or other information requested by the law enforcement
agency.
   (B)   No person shall represent the person’s self to be a bail enforcement
agent or bounty hunter, or claim any similar title, in this municipality.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal bail bond agent
practices.
      (1)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of division (A) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of division (B) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.27)
 § 130.21 SELF DEFENSE: LIMITATIONS ON DUTY TO RETREAT PRIOR TO USING FORCE.
   (A)   As used in this section, RESIDENCE has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2901.05.
   (B)   For purposes of any section of this code that sets forth a criminal
offense, a person has no duty to retreat before using force in self-defense,
defense of another, or defense of that person’s residence if that person is in
a place in which the person lawfully has a right to be.
   (C)   A trier of fact shall not consider the possibility of retreat as a
factor in determining whether or not a person who used force in self-defense,
defense of another, or defense of that person’s residence reasonably believed
that the force was necessary to prevent injury, loss, or risk to life or
safety.
(R.C. § 2901.09)
§ 130.99 PENALTY FOR TITLE XIII.
   (A)   Generally. Except where otherwise specifically classified within the
body of the section of a chapter of this title, a violation of such section
shall be deemed a misdemeanor punishable upon conviction by a fine of not more
than $500, imprisonment of not more than six months, or both.
(R.C. § 715.67)
   (B)   Considerations in misdemeanor sentencing.
      (1)   A court that sentences an offender for a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, or of any
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised Code, shall be guided
by the overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing. The overriding purposes
of misdemeanor sentencing are to protect the public from future crime by the
offender and others and to punish the offender. To achieve those purposes, the
sentencing court shall consider the impact of the offense upon the victim and
the need for changing the offender’s behavior, rehabilitating the defender, and
making restitution to the victim of the offense, the public, or the victim and
the public.
      (2)   A sentence imposed for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation
of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a violation of a municipal ordinance
that is subject to division (B)(1) of this section shall be reasonably
calculated to achieve the two overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing set
forth in division (B)(1) of this section, commensurate with and not demeaning
to the seriousness of the offender’s conduct and its impact upon the victim,
and consistent with sentences imposed for similar offenses committed by similar
offenders.
      (3)   A court that imposes a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor
or minor misdemeanor violation of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a
violation of a municipal ordinance that is subject to division (B)(1) of this
section shall not base the sentence upon the race, ethnic background, gender,
or religion of the offender.
      (4)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) of this section shall not apply to any
offense that is disposed of by a traffic violations bureau of any court
pursuant to Traffic Rule 13 and shall not apply to any violation of any
provision of the Ohio Revised Code that is a minor misdemeanor and that is
disposed of without a court appearance. Divisions (B)(1) through (B)(3) of this
section do not affect any penalties established by the municipality for a
violation of its ordinances that are not substantially equivalent to a
misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised
Code.
(R.C. § 2929.21)
     (C)   Misdemeanor jail terms.
      (1)   Except as provided in §
130.18 or
133.99 of this code or R.C. § 2929.22 or 2929.23 or division (C)(5) of this
section and unless another term is required or authorized pursuant to law, if
the sentencing court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor
elects or is required to impose a jail term on the offender pursuant to this
chapter, the court shall impose a definite jail term that shall be one of the
following:
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than 180 days;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than 90 days;
         (c)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than 60 days;
         (d)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than 30 days.
      (2)   (a)   A court that sentences an offender to a jail term under
division (C) of this section may permit the offender to serve the sentence in
intermittent confinement or may authorize a limited release of the offender as
provided in division (E)(2) of this section. The court retains jurisdiction
over every offender sentenced to jail to modify the jail sentence imposed at
any time, but the court shall not reduce any mandatory jail term.
         (b)   1.   If a prosecutor, as defined in R.C. § 2935.01, has filed a
notice with the court that the prosecutor wants to be notified about a
particular case and if the court is considering modifying the jail sentence of
the offender in that case, the court shall notify the prosecutor that the court
is considering modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case. The
prosecutor may request a hearing regarding the court’s consideration of
modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, and, if the
prosecutor requests a hearing, the court shall notify the eligible offender of
the hearing.
            2.   If the prosecutor requests a hearing regarding the court’s
consideration of modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, the
court shall hold the hearing before considering whether or not to release the
offender from the offender’s jail sentence.
      (3)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under division (C)
of this section and the court assigns the offender to a county jail that has
established a county jail industry program pursuant to R.C. § 5147.30, the
court shall specify, as part of the sentence, whether the offender may be
considered for participation in the program. During the offender’s term in the
county jail, the court retains jurisdiction to modify its specification
regarding the offender’s participation in the county jail industry program.
      (4)   If a person sentenced to a jail term pursuant to division (C) of
this section, the court may impose as part of the sentence pursuant to R.C. §
2929.28 a reimbursement sanction, and, if the local detention facility in which
the term is to be served is covered by a policy adopted pursuant to R.C. §
307.93, 341.14, 341.19, 341.21, 341.23, 753.02, 753.04, 753.16, 2301.56, or
2947.19 and R.C. § 2929.37, both of the following apply:
         (a)   The court shall specify both of the following as part of the
sentence:
            1.   If the person is presented with an itemized bill pursuant to
R.C. § 2929.37 for payment of the costs of confinement, the person is required
to pay the bill in accordance with that section.
            2.   If the person does not dispute the bill described in division
(C)(4)(a)1. of this section and does not pay the bill by the times specified in
R.C. § 2929.37, the clerk of the court may issue a certificate of judgment
against the person as described in that section.
         (b)   The sentence automatically includes any certificate of judgment
issued as described in division (C)(4)(a)2. of this section.
      (5)   (a)   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
misdemeanor violation of R.C. § 2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241, or 2907.25, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and to a specification of the
type described in R.C. § 2941.1421 and if the court imposes a jail term on the
offender for the misdemeanor violation, the court may impose upon the offender
an additional definite jail term as follows:
            1.   Subject to division (C)(5)(a)2. of this section, an additional
definite jail term of not more than 60 days;
            2.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one or more misdemeanor or felony violations of R.C. § 2907.22,
2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241, or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and also was convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1421 regarding one or more
of those violations, an additional definite jail term of not more than 120
days.
         (b)   In lieu of imposing an additional definite jail term under
division (C)(5)(a) of this section, the court may directly impose on the
offender a sanction that requires the offender to wear a real-time processing,
continual tracking electronic monitoring device during the period of time
specified by the court. The period of time specified by the court shall equal
the duration of an additional jail term that the court could have imposed upon
the offender under division (C)(5)(a) of this section. A sanction imposed under
this division shall commence on the date specified by the court, provided that
the sanction shall not commence until after the offender has served the jail
term imposed for the misdemeanor violation of R.C. § 2907.23, 2907.24,
2907.241, or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
any residential sanction imposed for the violation under division (E) of this
section or R.C. § 2929.26. A sanction imposed under this division shall be
considered to be a community control sanction for purposes of division (D) of
this section or R.C. § 2929.25, and all provisions of this code and the Ohio
Revised Code that pertain to community control sanctions shall apply to a
sanction imposed under this division, except to the extent that they would by
their nature be clearly inapplicable. The offender shall pay all costs
associated with a sanction imposed under this division, including the cost of
the use of the monitoring device.
      (6)   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor
violation of R.C. § 2903.13 and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1423 that charges that the
victim of the violation was a woman whom the offender knew was pregnant at the
time of the violation, the court shall impose on the offender a mandatory jail
term that is a definite term of at least 30 days.
      (7)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under this division
(C), the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender and the jail
term. Upon motion of either party or upon the court’s own motion, the court, in
the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may substitute
one or more community control sanctions under division (E) or (F) of this
section for any jail days that are not mandatory jail days.
(R.C. § 2929.24)
   (D)   Misdemeanor community control sanctions.
      (1)   (a)   Except as provided in §§
130.18 and
133.99 of this code or R.C. §§ 2929.22 and 2929.23 or when a jail term is
required by law, in sentencing an offender for a misdemeanor, other than a
minor misdemeanor, the sentencing court may do either of the following:
            1.   Directly impose a sentence that consists of one or more
community control sanctions authorized by divisions (E), (F), or (G) of this
section. The court may impose any other conditions of release under a community
control sanction that the court considers appropriate. If the court imposes a
jail term upon the offender, the court may impose any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions in addition to the jail
term.
            2.   Impose a jail term under division (C) of this section from the
range of jail terms authorized under that division for the offense, suspend all
or a portion of the jail term imposed, and place the offender under a community
control sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
divisions (E), (F), or (G) of this section.
         (b)   The duration of all community control sanctions imposed upon an
offender and in effect for an offender at any time shall not exceed five years.
         (c)   At sentencing, if a court directly imposes a community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (D)
(1)(a)1. of this section, the court shall state the duration of the community
control sanctions imposed and shall notify the offender that if any of the
conditions of the community control sanctions are violated the court may do any
of the following:
            1.   Impose a longer time under the same community control sanction
if the total time under all of the offender’s community control sanctions does
not exceed the five-year limit specified in division (D)(1)(b) of this section;
            2.   Impose a more restrictive community control sanction under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, but the court is not required to
impose any particular sanction or sanctions;
            3.   Impose a definite jail term from the range of jail terms
authorized for the offense under division (C) of this section.
      (2)   If a court sentences an offender to any community control sanction
or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (D)(1)(a)1.
of this section, the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender
and the period of community control for the duration of the period of community
control. Upon the motion of either party or on the court’s own motion, the
court, in the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may
modify the community control sanctions or conditions of release previously
imposed, substitute a community control sanction or condition of release for
another community control sanction or condition of release previously imposed,
or impose an additional community control sanction or condition of release.
      (3)   (a)   If a court sentences an offender to any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, the court shall place the offender
under the general control and supervision of the court or of a department of
probation in the jurisdiction that serves the court for purposes of reporting
to the court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. If
the offender resides in another jurisdiction and a department of probation has
been established to serve the municipal court or county court in that
jurisdiction, the sentencing court may request the municipal court or the
county court to receive the offender into the general control and supervision
of that department of probation for purposes of reporting to the sentencing
court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. The
sentencing court retains jurisdiction over any offender whom it sentences for
the duration of the sanction or sanctions imposed.
         (b)   The sentencing court shall require as a condition of any
community control sanction that the offender abide by the law and not leave the
state without the permission of the court or the offender’s probation officer.
In the interests of doing justice, rehabilitating the offender, and ensuring
the offender’s good behavior, the court may impose additional requirements on
the offender. The offender’s compliance with the additional requirements also
shall be a condition of the community control sanction imposed upon the
offender.
      (4)   (a)   If the court imposing sentence upon an offender sentences the
offender to any community control sanction or combination of community control
sanctions authorized under division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, and the
offender violates any of the conditions of the sanctions, the public or private
person or entity that supervises or administers the program or activity that
comprises the sanction shall report the violation directly to the sentencing
court or to the department of probation or probation officer with general
control and supervision over the offender. If the public or private person or
entity reports the violation to the department of probation or probation
officer, the department or officer shall report the violation to the sentencing
court.
         (b)   Except as provided in division (D)(4)(c) of this section, if an
offender violates any condition of a community control sanction, the sentencing
court may impose upon the violator one or more of the following penalties:
            1.   A longer time under the same community control sanction if the
total time under all of the community control sanctions imposed on the violator
does not exceed the five- year limit specified in division (D)(1)(b) of this
section;
            2.   A more restrictive community control sanction;
            3.   A combination of community control sanctions, including a jail
term.
         (c)   If an offender was acting pursuant to R.C. § 2925.11(B)(2)(b),
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or a related provision
under R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14, or R.C. § 2925.141, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and in so doing violated the conditions of a
community control sanction based on a minor drug possession offense, as defined
in R.C. § 2925.11, or violated R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1), or R.C. §
2925.141, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the sentencing
court shall not impose any of the penalties described in division (D)(4)(b) of
this section based on the violation.
         (d)   If the court imposes a jail term upon a violator pursuant to
division (D)(4)(b) of this section, the total time spent in jail for the
misdemeanor offense and the violation of a condition of the community control
sanction shall not exceed the maximum jail term available for the offense for
which the sanction that was violated was imposed. The court may reduce the
longer period of time that the violator is required to spend under the longer
sanction or the more restrictive sanction imposed under division (D)(4)(b) of
this section by all or part of the time the violator successfully spent under
the sanction that was initially imposed.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if an offender, for
a significant period of time, fulfills the conditions of a community control
sanction imposed pursuant to division (E), (F), or (G) of this section in an
exemplary manner, the court may reduce the period of time under the community
control sanction or impose a less restrictive community control sanction.
Fulfilling the conditions of a community control sanction does not relieve the
offender of a duty to make restitution under division (G) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.25)
   (E)   Community residential sanction.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any community residential sanction or combination of
community residential sanctions under this division (E). Community residential
sanctions include but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   A term of up to 180 days in a halfway house or a term in a
halfway house not to exceed the longest jail term available for the offense,
whichever is shorter, if the political subdivision that would have
responsibility for paying the costs of confining the offender in a jail has
entered into a contract with the halfway house for use of the facility for
misdemeanor offenders;
         (b)   If the offender is an eligible offender, as defined in R.C. §
307.932, a term in a community alternative sentencing center or district
community alternative sentencing center established and operated in accordance
with that section, in the circumstances specified in that section, with one of
the conditions of the sanction being that the offender successfully complete
the portion of the sentence to be served in the center.
      (2)   A sentence to a community residential sanction under division (E)
(1)(b) of this section shall be in accordance with R.C. § 307.932. In all other
cases, the court that sentences an offender to a community residential sanction
under this division (E) may do either or both of the following:
         (a)   Permit the offender to serve the offender’s sentence in
intermittent confinement, overnight, on weekends or at any other time or times
that will allow the offender to continue at the offender’s occupation or care
for the offender’s family;
         (b)   Authorize the offender to be released so that the offender may
seek or maintain employment, receive education or training, receive treatment,
perform community service, or otherwise fulfill an obligation imposed by law or
by the court. A release pursuant to this division shall be only for the
duration of time that is needed to fulfill the purpose of the release and for
travel that reasonably is necessary to fulfill the purposes of release.
      (3)   The court may order that a reasonable portion of the income earned
by the offender upon a release pursuant to division (E)(2) of this section be
applied to any financial sanction imposed under division (G) of this section.
      (4)   No court shall sentence any person to a prison term for a
misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor or to a jail term for a minor misdemeanor.
      (5)   If a court sentences a person who has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a misdemeanor to a community residential sanction as described in
division (E)(1) of this section, at the time of reception and at other times
the person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community
alternative sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing
center, or other place at which the offender will serve the residential
sanction determines to be appropriate, the person in charge of the operation of
the halfway house, community alternative sentencing center, district community
alternative sentencing center, or other place may cause the convicted offender
to be examined and tested for tuberculosis, HIV infection, hepatitis, including
but not limited to hepatitis A, B, and C, and other contagious diseases. The
person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community alternative
sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing center, or other
place at which the offender will serve the residential sanction may cause a
convicted offender in the halfway house, community alternative sentencing
center, district community alternative sentencing center, or other place who
refuses to be tested or treated for tuberculosis, HIV infection, hepatitis,
including but not limited to hepatitis A, B, and C, or another contagious
disease to be tested and treated involuntarily.
      (6)   The municipality may enter into a contract with a halfway house for
use of the halfway house to house misdemeanor offenders under a sanction
imposed under division (E)(1)(a) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.26)
   (F)   Nonresidential sanction where jail term is not mandatory.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any nonresidential sanction or combination of
nonresidential sanctions authorized under this division. Nonresidential
sanctions include but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   A term of day reporting;
         (b)   A term of house arrest with electronic monitoring or continuous
alcohol monitoring or both electronic monitoring and continuous alcohol
monitoring, a term of electronic monitoring or continuous alcohol monitoring
without house arrest, or a term of house arrest without electronic monitoring
or continuous alcohol monitoring;
         (c)   A term of community service of up to 500 hours for misdemeanor
of the first degree or 200 hours for a misdemeanor of the second, third, or
fourth degree;
         (d)   A term in a drug treatment program with a level of security for
the offender as determined necessary by the court;
         (e)   A term of intensive probation supervision;
         (f)   A term of basic probation supervision;
         (g)   A term of monitored time;
         (h)   A term of drug and alcohol use monitoring, including random drug
testing;
         (i)   A curfew term;
         (j)   A requirement that the offender obtain employment;
         (k)   A requirement that the offender obtain education or training;
         (l)   Provided the court obtains the prior approval of the victim, a
requirement that the offender participate in victim-offender mediation;
         (m)   If authorized by law, suspension of the offender’s privilege to
operate a motor vehicle, immobilization or forfeiture of the offender’s motor
vehicle, a requirement that the offender obtain a valid motor vehicle
operator’s license, or any other related sanction;
         (n)   A requirement that the offender obtain counseling if the offense
is a violation of R.C. § 2919.25 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance or a violation of R.C. § 2903.13 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance involving a person who was a family or household member at
the time of the violation, if the offender committed the offense in the
vicinity of one or more children who are not victims of the offense, and if the
offender or the victim of the offense is a parent, guardian, custodian, or
person in loco parentis of one or more of those children. This division does
not limit the court in requiring that the offender obtain counseling for any
offense or in any circumstance not specified in this division.
      (2)   If the court imposes a term of community service pursuant to
division (F)(1)(c) of this section, the offender may request that the court
modify the sentence to authorize the offender to make a reasonable
contribution, as determined by the court, to the general fund of the county,
municipality, or other local entity that provides funding to the court. The
court may grant the request if the offender demonstrates a change in
circumstances from the date the court imposes the sentence or that the
modification would otherwise be in the interests of justice. If the court
grants the request, the offender shall make a reasonable contribution to the
court, and the clerk of the court shall deposit that contribution into the
general fund of the county, municipality, or other local entity that provides
funding to the court. If more than one entity provides funding to the court,
the clerk shall deposit a percentage of the reasonable contribution equal to
the percentage of funding the entity provides to the court in that entity’s
general fund.
      (3)   In addition to the sanctions authorized under division (F)(1) of
this section, the court imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a
minor misdemeanor, upon an offender who is not required to serve a mandatory
jail term may impose any other sanction that is intended to discourage the
offender or other persons from committing a similar offense if the sanction is
reasonably related to the overriding purposes and principles of misdemeanor
sentencing.
      (4)   The court imposing a sentence for a minor misdemeanor may impose a
term of community service in lieu of all or part of a fine. The term of
community service imposed for a minor misdemeanor shall not exceed 30 hours.
After imposing a term of community service, the court may modify the sentence
to authorize a reasonable contribution, as determined by the court, to the
appropriate general fund as provided in division (F)(2) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.27)
   (G)   Financial sanctions.
      (1)   In addition to imposing court costs pursuant to R.C. § 2947.23, the
court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor, including a minor
misdemeanor, may sentence the offender to any financial sanction or combination
of financial sanctions authorized under this division (G) and, if the offender
is being sentenced for a criminal offense as defined in R.C. § 2930.01, shall
sentence the offender to make restitution pursuant to this division (G) and
R.C. § 2929.281. If the court, in its discretion or as required by this
division (G), imposes one or more financial sanctions, the financial sanctions
that may be imposed pursuant to this division (G) include, but are not limited
to, the following:
         (a)   Restitution.
            1.   Unless the misdemeanor offense could be disposed of by the
traffic violations bureau serving the court under Traffic Rule 13, restitution
by the offender to the victim of the offender’s crime or the victim’s estate,
in an amount based on the victim’s economic loss. The court may not impose
restitution as a sanction pursuant to this division if the offense could be
disposed of by the traffic violations bureau serving the court under Traffic
Rule 13. If the court requires restitution, the court shall order that the
restitution be made to the victim in open court or to the adult probation
department that serves the jurisdiction or the clerk of the court on behalf of
the victim.
            2.   The court shall determine the amount of restitution to be paid
by the offender. The victim, victim’s representative, victim’s attorney, if
applicable, the prosecutor or the prosecutor’s designee, and the offender may
provide information relevant to the determination of the amount of restitution.
The amount the court orders as restitution shall not exceed the amount of the
economic loss suffered by the victim as a direct and proximate result of the
commission of the offense. If the court imposes restitution for the cost of
accounting or auditing done to determine the extent of economic loss, the court
may order restitution for any amount of the victim’s costs of accounting or
auditing provided that the amount of restitution is reasonable and does not
exceed the value of property or services stolen or damaged as a result of the
offense. If the court decides to or is required to impose restitution, the
court shall hold an evidentiary hearing on restitution if the offender, victim,
victim’s representative, victim’s attorney, if applicable, or victim’s estate
disputes the amount of restitution. The court shall determine the amount of
full restitution by a preponderance of the evidence.
            3.   All restitution payments shall be credited against any
recovery of economic loss in a civil action brought by the victim or the
victim’s estate against the offender. No person may introduce evidence of an
award of restitution under this division (G) in a civil action for purposes of
imposing liability against an insurer under R.C. § 3937.18.
            4.   The court may order that the offender pay a surcharge, of not
more than 5% of the amount of the restitution otherwise ordered, to the entity
responsible for collecting and processing restitution payments.
            5.   The victim, victim’s attorney, if applicable, or the attorney
for the victim’s estate may request that the prosecutor in the case file a
motion, or the offender may file a motion, for modification of the payment
terms of any restitution ordered. If the court grants the motion, it may modify
the payment terms as it determines appropriate but shall not reduce the amount
of restitution ordered, except as provided in R.C. § 2929.281(A).
         (b)   Fines. A fine of the type described in divisions (G)(1)(b)1. and
(G)(1)(b)2. of this section payable to the appropriate entity as required by
law:
            1.   A fine in the following amount:
               a.   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than
$1,000;
               b.   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $750;
               c.   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $500;
               d.   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $250;
               e.   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than $150.
            2.   A state fine or cost as defined in R.C. § 2949.111.
         (c)   Reimbursement.
            1.   Reimbursement by the offender of any or all of the costs of
sanctions incurred by the government, including but not limited to the
following:
               a.   All or part of the costs of implementing any community
control sanction, including a supervision fee under R.C. § 2951.021 and the
costs of global positioning system device monitoring;
               b.   All or part of the costs of confinement in a jail or other
residential facility, including but not limited to a per diem fee for room and
board, the costs of medical and dental treatment, and the costs of repairing
property damaged by the offender while confined;
               c.   All or part of the cost of purchasing and using an
immobilizing or disabling device, including a certified ignition interlock
device, or a remote alcohol monitoring device that a court orders an offender
to use under R.C. § 4510.13.
            2.   The amount of reimbursement under division (G)(1)(c)1. of this
section shall not exceed the total amount of reimbursement the offender is able
to pay and shall not exceed the actual cost of the sanctions. The court may
collect any amount of reimbursement the offender is required to pay under that
division. If the court does not order reimbursement under that division,
confinement costs may be assessed pursuant to a repayment policy adopted under
R.C. § 2929.37. In addition, the offender may be required to pay the fees
specified in R.C. § 2929.38 in accordance with that section.   
      (2)   (a)   If the court determines a hearing is necessary, the court may
hold a hearing to determine whether the offender is able to pay the financial
sanction imposed pursuant to this division (G) or court costs or is likely in
the future to be able to pay the sanction or costs.
         (b)   If the court determines that the offender is indigent and unable
to pay the financial sanction or court costs, the court shall consider imposing
and may impose a term of community service under division (F)(1) of this
section in lieu of imposing a financial sanction or court costs. If the court
does not determine that the offender is indigent, the court may impose a term
of community service under division (F)(1) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this division (G) and in
addition to imposing court costs. The court may order community service for a
minor misdemeanor pursuant to division (F)(4) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this section and in addition to
imposing court costs. If a person fails to pay a financial sanction or court
costs, the court may order community service in lieu of the financial sanction
or court costs.
      (3)   (a)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the
offender pursuant to division (G)(1)(c) of this section to pay the costs
incurred by a county pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (E), (F),
or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine offenders
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this section to the county
treasurer. The county treasurer shall deposit the reimbursements in the
county’s General Fund. The county shall use the amounts deposited in the fund
to pay the costs incurred by the county pursuant to any sanction imposed under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to
confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this
section.
         (b)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the offender
pursuant to division (G)(1)(c) of this section to pay the costs incurred by a
municipal corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (E), (F),
or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine offenders
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this section to the
treasurer of the municipal corporation. The treasurer shall deposit the
reimbursements in the municipal corporation’s General Fund. The municipal
corporation shall use the amounts deposited in the fund to pay the costs
incurred by the municipal corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to
confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this
section.
         (c)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed pursuant to
division (G)(1)(c) of this section for the costs incurred by a private provider
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E), (F), or (G) of this section
to the provider.
      (4)   (a)   In addition to any other fine that is or may be imposed under
this section, the court imposing sentence upon an offender for misdemeanor
domestic violence or menacing by stalking may impose a fine of not less than
$70 nor more than $500, which shall, except as provided in divisions (G)(4)(b)
and (G)(4)(c) of this section, be transmitted to the Treasurer of Ohio to be
credited to the address confidentiality program fund created by R.C. § 111.48.
         (b)   A court that imposes a fine under division (G)(4)(a) of this
section may retain up to 25% of amounts collected in satisfaction of the fine
to cover administrative costs.
         (c)   A court that imposes a fine under division (G)(4)(a) of this
section may assign up to 25% of amounts collected in satisfaction of the fine
to reimburse the prosecuting attorney for costs associated with prosecution of
the offense.
      (5)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (G)(5), a
financial sanction imposed under division (G)(1) of this section is a judgment
in favor of the state or the political subdivision that operates the court that
imposed the financial sanction, and the offender subject to the financial
sanction is the judgment debtor. A financial sanction of reimbursement imposed
pursuant to division (G)(1)(c)1.a. of this section upon an offender is a
judgment in favor of the entity administering the community control sanction,
and the offender subject to the financial sanction is the judgment debtor. A
financial sanction of reimbursement imposed pursuant to division (G)(1)(c)1.b.
of this section upon an offender confined in a jail or other residential
facility is a judgment in favor of the entity operating the jail or other
residential facility, and the offender subject to the financial sanction is the
judgment debtor. A financial sanction of restitution imposed pursuant to
division (G)(1)(a) of this section is an order in favor of the victim of the
offender’s criminal act that can be collected through a certificate of judgment
as described in division (G)(5)(b)1. of this section, through execution as
described in division (G)(5)(b)2. of this section or through an order as
described in division (G)(5)(b)3. of this section and the offender shall be
considered for purposes of the collection as a judgment debtor.
         (b)   Once a financial sanction is imposed as a judgment or order
under this division, the victim, private provider, state, or political
subdivision may do any of the following:
            1.   Obtain from the clerk of the court in which the judgment was
entered, at no charge, a certificate of judgment that shall be in the same
manner and form as a certificate of judgment issued in a civil action;
            2.   Obtain execution of the judgment or order through any
available procedure, including any of the procedures identified in R.C. §
2929.18(D)(1) and (D)(2) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
            3.   Obtain an order for the assignment of wages of the judgment
debtor under R.C. § 1321.33 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (6)   The civil remedies authorized under division (G)(5) of this section
for the collection of the financial sanction supplement, but do not preclude,
enforcement of the criminal sentence.
      (7)   Each court imposing a financial sanction upon an offender under
this division (G) may designate the clerk of the court or another person to
collect the financial sanction. The clerk, or another person authorized by law
or the court to collect the financial sanction may do the following:
         (a)   Enter into contracts with one or more public agencies or private
vendors for the collection of amounts due under the sanction. Before entering
into a contract for the collection of amounts due from an offender pursuant to
any financial sanction imposed pursuant to this division (G), a court shall
comply with R.C. §§ 307.86 through 307.92.
         (b)   Permit payment of all or any portion of the sanction in
installments, by financial transaction device if the court is a county court or
a municipal court operated by a county, or by any other reasonable method, in
any time, and on any terms that the court considers just. If the court is a
county court or a municipal court operated by a county, the acceptance of
payments by any financial transaction device shall be governed by the policy
adopted by the board of county commissioners of the county pursuant to R.C. §
301.28. If the court is a municipal court not operated by a county, the clerk
may pay any fee associated with processing an electronic transfer out of public
money or may charge the fee to the offender.
         (c)   To defray administrative costs, charge a reasonable fee to an
offender who elects a payment plan rather than a lump sum payment of any
financial sanction.
      (8)   No financial sanction imposed under this division (G) shall
preclude a victim from bringing a civil action against the offender.
      (9)   If the court imposes restitution, fines, fees, or incarceration
costs on a business or corporation, it is the duty of the person authorized to
make disbursements from assets of the business or corporation to pay the
restitution, fines, fees, or incarceration costs from those assets.
(R.C. § 2929.28)
   (H)   Organizational penalties.
      (1)   Regardless of the other penalties provided in this section, an
organization convicted of an offense pursuant to §
130.09 shall be fined by the court as follows:
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than $5,000;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $4,000;
         (c)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $3,000;
         (d)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $2,000;
         (e)   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than $1,000;
         (f)   For a misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more than
$2,000;
         (g)   For a minor misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more
than $1,000.
      (2)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the section defining the offense or penalty plainly indicates a
purpose to impose the penalty provided for violation upon organizations, then
such penalty shall be imposed in lieu of the penalty provided in this section.
      (3)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the penalty provided includes a higher fine than that provided
in this section, then the penalty imposed shall be pursuant to the penalty
provided for violation of the section defining the offense.
      (4)   This section does not prevent the imposition of available civil
sanctions against an organization convicted of an offense pursuant to §
130.09, either in addition to or in lieu of a fine imposed pursuant to this
section.
(R.C. § 2929.31)
Cross-reference:
    Sentencing for sexually oriented offenses; sexual predators; registration,
see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
    Citation issuance and limitations on arrest for minor misdemeanors, see
R.C. § 2935.26
    Crime Victim’s Reparations Fund, see R.C. § 2929.32
    Habitual sex offender and sexual predator registration, see R.C. Chapter
2950
    Reimbursement for costs of confinement, see R.C. §§ 2929.36 et seq.
    Reports to health care licensing boards of criminal offenses, see R.C. §
2929.42
    Restitution, see R.C. § 2929.281
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Arson; determining property value or amount of physical harm
   
131.03   Criminal damaging or endangering; vehicular vandalism
   
131.04   Criminal mischief
   
131.05   Damaging or endangering aircraft or airport operations
   
131.06   Criminal trespass; aggravated trespass
   
131.07   Tampering with coin machines
   
131.08   Theft
   
131.09   Unauthorized use of a vehicle
   
131.10   Unauthorized use of property, including telecommunication property and
computers; possession of municipal property
   
131.11   Passing bad checks
   
131.12   Misuse of credit cards
   
131.13   Making or using slugs
   
131.14   Prima facie evidence of purpose to defraud
   
131.15   Tampering with records
   
131.16   Securing writings by deception
   
131.17   Defrauding creditors
   
131.18   Receiving stolen property
   
131.19   Value of stolen property
   
131.20   Degree of offense when certain property involved
   
131.21   Injuring vines, bushes, trees, or crops
   
131.22   Detention and arrest of shoplifters and those committing motion
picture piracy; protection of institutional property
   
131.23   Insurance fraud; workers’ compensation fraud; Medicaid fraud
   
131.24   Injury to property by hunters
   
131.25   Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental
services; evidence of lack of capacity to consent
   
131.26   Forgery of identification cards
   
131.27   Criminal simulation
   
131.28   Personating an officer
   
131.29   Trademark counterfeiting
   
131.30   Diminishing or interfering with forfeitable property
   
131.31   Recording credit card, telephone or Social Security numbers
   
131.32   Prosecutions for theft of utilities
   
131.33   Motion picture piracy
   
131.34   Railroad vandalism; criminal trespass; interference with operation of
train; grade crossing device vandalism
   
131.35   Desecration
Statutory reference:
   Cable television service devices, unauthorized sale or possession, felony,
see R.C. § 2913.041
   Deceptive acts or practices in connection with consumer transactions, see
O.A.C. Chapter 109:4-3
   Disrupting public services, felony, see R.C. § 2909.04
   E-mail advertisements, civil offenses and felony forgery offense, see R.C. §
2307.64
   E-mail spam, civil offenses and felony offenses, see R.C. § 2913.421
   Food stamps, illegal use, see R.C. § 2913.46
   Telecommunications: fraud and unlawful use of a device, felony offenses, see
R.C. §§ 2913.05 and 2913.06
   Terrorism involving agricultural products or equipment, see R.C. § 901.511
§ 131.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE DUTY SERVICE MEMBER. Any member of the armed forces of the United
States performing active duty under Title 10 of the United States Code.
   ANHYDROUS AMMONIA. A compound formed by the combination of two gaseous
elements, nitrogen and hydrogen, in the manner described below. Anhydrous
ammonia is one part nitrogen to three parts hydrogen (NH3). Anhydrous ammonia
by weight is fourteen parts nitrogen to three parts hydrogen, which is
approximately 82% nitrogen to 18% hydrogen.
   ASSISTANCE DOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
   CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE. Any services provided by or through the facilities
of any cable television system or other similar closed circuit coaxial cable
communications system, or any microwave or similar transmission service used in
connection with any cable television system or other similar closed circuit
coaxial cable communications system.
   COIN MACHINE. Any mechanical or electronic device designed to do both of the
following:
      (1)   Receive a coin or bill, or token made for that purpose;
      (2)   In return for the insertion or deposit of a coin, bill, or token,
automatically dispense property, provide a service, or grant a license.
   COMPUTER. An electronic device that performs logical, arithmetic, and memory
functions by the manipulation of electronic or magnetic impulses. The term
includes but is not limited to all input, output, processing, storage, computer
program, or communication facilities that are connected, or related, in a
computer system or network to an electronic device of that nature.
   COMPUTER CONTAMINANT. Means a computer program that is designed to modify,
damage, destroy, disable, deny or degrade access to, allow unauthorized access
to, functionally impair, record, or transmit information within a computer,
computer system, or computer network without the express or implied consent of
the owner or other person authorized to give consent and that is of a type or
kind described in divisions (1) through (4) of this definition or of a type or
kind similar to a type or kind described in divisions (1) through (4) of this
definition:
      (1)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “viruses” and
“worms” that are self-replicating or self-propagating and that are designed to
contaminate other computer programs, compromise computer security, consume
computer resources, modify, destroy, record, or transmit data, or disrupt the
normal operation of the computer, computer system, or computer network;
      (2)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “Trojans” or “Trojan
horses” that are not self-replicating or self-propagating and that are designed
to compromise computer security, consume computer resources, modify, destroy,
record, or transmit data, or disrupt the normal operation of the computer,
computer system, or computer network;
      (3)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “zombies” that are
designed to use a computer without the knowledge and consent of the owner, or
other person authorized to give consent, and that are designed to send large
quantities of data to a targeted computer network for the purpose of degrading
the targeted computer’s or network’s performance, or denying access through the
network to the targeted computer or network, resulting in what is commonly
known as “denial of service” or “distributed denial of service” attacks;
      (4)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “trap doors”, “back
doors”, or “root kits” that are designed to bypass standard authentication
software and that are designed to allow access or use of a computer without the
knowledge or consent of the owner, or other person authorized to give consent.
   COMPUTER HACKING.
      (1)   The term means any of the following:
         (a)   Gaining access or attempting to gain access to all or part of a
computer, computer system, or a computer network without express or implied
authorization with the intent to defraud or with intent to commit a crime;
         (b)   Misusing computer or network services including but not limited
to mail transfer programs, file transfer programs, proxy servers, and web
servers by performing functions not authorized by the owner of the computer,
computer system, or computer network or other person authorized to give
consent. As used in this division, “misuse of computer and network services”
includes but is not limited to the unauthorized use of any of the following:
            1.   Mail transfer programs to send mail to persons other than the
authorized users of that computer or computer network;
            2.   File transfer program services or proxy servers to access
other computers, computer systems, or computer networks;
            3.   Web servers to redirect users to other web pages or web
servers.
         (c)   1.   Subject to division (1)(c)2. of this definition, using a
group of computer programs commonly known as “port scanners” or “probes” to
intentionally access any computer, computer system, or computer network without
the permission of the owner of the computer, computer system, or computer
network or other person authorized to give consent. The group of computer
programs referred to in this division includes but is not limited to those
computer programs that use a computer network to access a computer, computer
system, or another computer network to determine any of the following: the
presence or types of computers or computer systems on a network; the computer
network’s facilities and capabilities; the availability of computer or network
services; the presence or versions of computer software including but not
limited to operating systems, computer services, or computer contaminants; the
presence of a known computer software deficiency that can be used to gain
unauthorized access to a computer, computer system, or computer network; or any
other information about a computer, computer system, or computer network not
necessary for the normal and lawful operation of the computer initiating the
access.
            2.   The group of computer programs referred to in division (1)
(c)1. of this definition does not include standard computer software used for
the normal operation, administration, management, and test of a computer,
computer system, or computer network including but not limited to domain name
services, mail transfer services, and other operating system services, computer
programs commonly called “ping”, “tcpdump”, and “traceroute” and other network
monitoring and management computer software, and computer programs commonly
knows as “nslookup” and “whois” and other systems administration computer
software.
         (d)   The intentional use of a computer, computer system, or a
computer network in a manner that exceeds any right or permission granted by
the owner of the computer, computer system, or computer network or other person
authorized to give consent.
      (2)   The term does not include the introduction of a computer
contaminant, as defined in this section, into a computer, computer system,
computer program, or computer network.
   COMPUTER NETWORK. A set of related and remotely-connected computers and
communication facilities that includes more than one computer system that has
the capability to transmit among the connected computers and communication
facilities through the use of computer facilities.
   COMPUTER PROGRAM. An ordered set of data representing coded instructions or
statements that, when executed by a computer, causes the computer to process
data.
   COMPUTER SERVICES. Includes but is not limited to the use of a computer
system, computer network, computer program, data that is prepared for computer
use, or data that is contained within a computer system or computer network.
   COMPUTER SOFTWARE. Computer programs, procedures, and other documentation
associated with the operation of a computer system.
   COMPUTER SYSTEM. A computer and related devices, whether connected or
unconnected, including but not limited to data input, output, and storage
devices, data communications links, and computer programs and data that make
the system capable of performing specified special purpose data processing
tasks.
   COUNTERFEIT TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. A telecommunications device that,
alone or with another telecommunications device, has been altered, constructed,
manufactured, or programmed to acquire, intercept, receive, or otherwise
facilitate the use of a telecommunications service or information service
without the authority or consent of the provider of the telecommunications
service or information service. The phrase includes but is not limited to a
clone telephone, clone microchip, tumbler telephone, or tumbler microchip; a
wireless scanning device capable of acquiring, intercepting, receiving, or
otherwise facilitating the use of telecommunications service or information
service without immediate detection; or a device, equipment, hardware, or
software designed for, or capable of, altering or changing the electronic
serial number in a wireless telephone.
   CREATE A SUBSTANTIAL RISK OF SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO ANY PERSON. Includes
the creation of a substantial risk of serious physical harm to any emergency
personnel.
   CREDIT CARD. Includes but is not limited to a card, code, device, or other
means of access to a customer’s account for the purpose of obtaining money,
property, labor, or services on credit, or for initiating an electronic fund
transfer at a point-of-sale terminal, an automated teller machine, or a cash
dispensing machine. It also includes a county procurement card issued under
R.C. § 301.29.
   DANGEROUS DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DANGEROUS ORDNANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
   DATA. A representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts, or
instructions that are being or have been prepared in a formalized manner and
that are intended for use in a computer, computer system, or computer network.
   DECEPTION. To knowingly deceive another or cause another to be deceived by
any false or misleading representation, by withholding information, by
preventing another from acquiring information, or by any other conduct, act, or
omission that creates, confirms, or perpetuates a false impression in another,
including a false impression as to law, value, state of mind, or other
objective or subjective fact.
   DEFRAUD. To knowingly obtain, by deception, some benefit for oneself or
another, or to knowingly cause, by deception, some detriment to another.
   DEPRIVE. To do any of the following:
      (1)   To withhold property of another permanently, or for a period that
appropriates a substantial portion of its value or use, or with purpose to
restore it only upon payment of a reward or other consideration;
      (2)   To dispose of property so as to make it unlikely that the owner
will recover it;
      (3)   To accept, use, or appropriate money, property, or services, with
purpose not to give proper consideration in return for the money, property, or
services, and without reasonable justification or excuse for not giving proper
consideration.
   DISABLED ADULT. A person who is 18 years of age or older and has some
impairment of body or mind that makes the person unable to work at any
substantially remunerative employment that the person otherwise would be able
to perform and that will, with reasonable probability, continue for a period of
at least 12 months without any present indication of recovery from the
impairment, or who is 18 years of age or older and has been certified as
permanently and totally disabled by an agency of this state or the United
States that has the function of so classifying persons.
   DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   ELDERLY PERSON. A person who is 65 years of age or older.
   ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER. Has the same meaning as in 92 Stat. 3728, 15
U.S.C. § 1693a, as amended.
   EMERGENCY PERSONNEL. Means any of the following persons:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 2935.01;
      (2)   A member of a fire department or other firefighting agency of a
municipal corporation, township, township fire district, joint fire district,
other political subdivision, or combination of political subdivisions;
      (3)   A member of a private fire company, as defined in R.C. § 9.60, or a
volunteer firefighter;
      (4)    A member of a joint ambulance district or joint emergency medical
services district;
      (5)   An emergency medical technician-basic, emergency medical
technician- intermediate, emergency medical technician-paramedic, ambulance
operator, or other member of an emergency medical service that is owned or
operated by a political subdivision or a private entity;
      (6)   The State Fire Marshal, the Chief Deputy State Fire Marshal, or an
assistant state fire marshal;
      (7)   A fire prevention officer of a political subdivision or an arson,
fire, or similar investigator of a political subdivision.
   FEDERALLY-LICENSED FIREARMS DEALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5502.63.
   FIREARM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
   FORGE. To fabricate or create, in whole or in part and by any means, any
spurious writing, or to make, execute, alter, complete, reproduce, or otherwise
purport to authenticate any writing, when the writing in fact is not
authenticated by that conduct.
   GAIN ACCESS. To approach, instruct, communicate with, store data in,
retrieve data from, or otherwise make use of any resources of a computer,
computer system, or computer network, or any cable service or cable system both
as defined in R.C. § 2913.04.
   INFORMATION SERVICE.
      (1)   Subject to division (2) of this definition, the offering of a
capability for generating, acquiring, storing, transforming, processing,
retrieving, utilizing, or making available information via telecommunications,
including but not limited to electronic publishing.
      (2)   The term does not include any use of a capability of a type
described in division (1) of this definition for the management, control, or
operation of a telecommunications system or the management of a
telecommunications service.
   INTERNET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 341.42.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   OCCUPIED STRUCTURE. Means any house, building, outbuilding, watercraft,
aircraft, railroad car, truck, trailer, tent, or other structure, vehicle, or
shelter, or any portion thereof, to which any of the following applies:
      (1)   It is maintained as a permanent or temporary dwelling, even though
it is temporarily unoccupied and whether nor not any person is actually
present;
      (2)   At the time, it is occupied as the permanent or temporary
habitation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present;
      (3)   At the time, it is specially adapted for the overnight
accommodation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present;
      (4)   At the time, any person is present or likely to be present in it.
   OWNER. Unless the context requires a different meaning, any person, other
than the actor, who is the owner of, who has possession or control of, or who
has any license or interest in property or services, even though the ownership,
possession, control, license, or interest is unlawful.
   POLICE DOG OR HORSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.321.
   POLITICAL SUBDIVISION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2744.01.
   RENTED PROPERTY. Personal property in which the right of possession and use
of the property is for a short and possibly indeterminate term in return for
consideration; the rentee generally controls the duration of possession of the
property within any applicable minimum or maximum term; and the amount of
consideration is generally determined by the duration of possession of the
property.
   SERVICES. Includes labor, personal services, professional services, rental
services, public utility services including wireless service as defined in R.C.
§ 128.01(F)(1), common carrier services, and food, drink, transportation,
entertainment, and cable television services and, for purposes of R.C. §
2913.04 or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, includes cable
services as defined in that section.
   SLUG. An object that, by virtue of its size, shape, composition, or other
quality, is capable of being inserted or deposited in a coin machine as an
improper substitute for a genuine coin, bill, or token made for that purpose.
   STATE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2744.01.
   TELECOMMUNICATION. The origination, emission, dissemination, transmission,
or reception of data, images, signals, sounds, or other intelligence or
equivalence or intelligence of any nature over any communications system by any
method, including but not limited to a fiber optic, electronic, magnetic,
optical, digital or analog method.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Any instrument, equipment, machine, or other
device that facilitates telecommunication, including but not limited to a
computer, computer network, computer chip, computer circuit, scanner,
telephone, cellular telephone, pager, personal communications device,
transponder, receiver, radio, modem, or device that enables the use of a modem.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. The providing, allowing, facilitating, or
generating of any form of telecommunication through the use of a
telecommunications device over a telecommunications system.
   THEFT OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12, 2911.13,
2911.31, 2911.32, 2913.02, 2913.03, 2913.04, 2913.041, 2913.11, 2913.21,
2913.31, 2913.32, 2913.33, 2913.34, 2913.40, 2913.42, 2913.43, 2913.44,
2913.45, 2913.47, 2913.48, former R.C. § 2913.47 or 2913.48, or R.C. § 2913.51,
2915.05, or 2921.41;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
section listed in division (1) of this definition, or a violation of R.C. §
2913.41, 2913.81 or 2915.06 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or the United States involving robbery, burglary,
breaking and entering, theft, embezzlement, wrongful conversion, forgery,
counterfeiting, deceit, or fraud;
      (4)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing any offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   UTTER. To issue, publish, transfer, use, put or send into circulation,
deliver, or display.
   WRITING. Any computer software, document, letter, memorandum, note, paper,
plate, data, film, or other thing having in or upon it any written, type-
written, or printed matter, and any token, stamp, seal, credit card, badge,
trademark, label, or other symbol of value, right, privilege, license, or
identification.
(R.C. §§ 2909.01, 2913.01)
§ 131.02 ARSON; DETERMINING PROPERTY VALUE OR AMOUNT OF PHYSICAL HARM.
   (A)   No person, by means of fire or explosion, shall knowingly do any of
the following:
      (1)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
property of another without the other person’s consent;
      (2)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
property of the offender or another, with purpose to defraud;
      (3)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to the
statehouse or a courthouse, school building, or other building or structure
that is owned or controlled by the state, any political subdivision, or any
department, agency, or instrumentality of the state or a political subdivision,
and that is used for public purposes;
      (4)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm, through the
offer or the acceptance of an agreement for hire or other consideration, to any
property of another without the other person’s consent or to any property of
the offender or another with purpose to defraud;
      (5)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any park,
preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over land, forest, timberland,
greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is owned or controlled by
another person, the state, or a political subdivision without the consent of
the other person, the state, or the political subdivision;
      (6)   With purpose to defraud, cause, or create a substantial risk of,
physical harm to any park, preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over
land, forest, timberland, greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is
owned or controlled by the offender, another person, the state, or a political
subdivision.
   (B)   No person, by means of fire or explosion, shall knowingly do any of
the following:
      (1)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
structure of another that is not an occupied structure;
      (2)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm, through the
offer or the acceptance of an agreement for hire or other consideration, to any
structure of another that is not an occupied structure;
      (3)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
structure that is not an occupied structure and that is in or on any park,
preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over land, forest, timberland,
greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is owned or controlled by
another person, the state, or a political subdivision.
   (C)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(1)
or (B)(2) of this section that the defendant acted with the consent of the
other person.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(3) of
this section that the defendant acted with the consent of the other person, the
state, or the political subdivision.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of arson.
      (2)   A violation of division (A)(1) or (B)(1) of this section is one of
the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(2)(b) of this
section, a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         (b)   If the value of the property or the amount of the physical harm
involved is $1,000 or more, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (3)   A violation of division (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), (A)(5), (A)(6), (B)
(2) or (B)(3) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2909.03)
   (E)   Determining property value or amount of physical harm.
      (1)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or amount of physical harm involved in a violation of division (A)(1)
or (B)(1) of this section:
         (a)   If the property is an heirloom, memento, collector’s item,
antique, museum piece, manuscript, document, record, or other thing that is
either irreplaceable or is replaceable only on the expenditure of substantial
time, effort, or money, the value of the property or the amount of physical
harm involved is the amount that would compensate the owner for its loss.
         (b)   If the property is not covered under division (B)(1)(a) of this
section, and the physical harm is such that the property can be restored
substantially to its former condition, the amount of physical harm involved is
the reasonable cost of restoring the property.
         (c)   If the property is not covered under division (B)(1)(a) of this
section, and the physical harm is such that the property cannot be restored
substantially to its former condition, the value of the property, in the case
of personal property, is the cost of replacing the property with new property
of like kind and quality, and in the case of real property or real property
fixtures, is the difference in the fair market value of the property
immediately before and immediately after the offense.
      (2)   As used in this section, FAIR MARKET VALUE has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 2913.61.
      (3)   Prima facie evidence of the value of property, as provided in R.C.
§ 2913.61(D), may be used to establish the value of property pursuant to this
section.
(R.C. § 2909.11(B) - (D))
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated arson, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.02
   Arson offender registration, see R.C. §§ 2909.13, 2909.14 and 2909.15
   Convicted arsonist to make restitution to public agency, see R.C. § 2929.71
§ 131.03 CRIMINAL DAMAGING OR ENDANGERING; VEHICULAR VANDALISM.
   (A)   Criminal damaging or endangering.
      (1)   No person shall cause or create a substantial risk of physical harm
to any property of another without the other person’s consent:
         (a)   Knowingly, by any means; or
         (b)   Recklessly, by means of fire, explosion, flood, poison gas,
poison, radioactive material, caustic or corrosive material, or other
inherently dangerous agency or substance.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of criminal damaging
or endangering, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If violation of this
division (A) creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging
or endangering is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the property involved
in a violation of this division (A) is an aircraft, an aircraft engine,
propeller, appliance, spare part, or any other equipment or implement used or
intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and if the violation
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging or endangering
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the property
involved in a violation of this division (A) is an aircraft, an aircraft
engine, propeller, appliance, spare part, or any other equipment or implement
used or intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and if the
violation creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person or if the
property involved in a violation of this division (A) is an occupied aircraft,
criminal damaging or endangering is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2909.06)
   (B)   Vehicular vandalism.
      (1)   As used in this division (B):
         ALLEY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
         HIGHWAY. Means any highway as defined in R.C. § 4511.01 or any lane,
road, street, alley, bridge, or overpass.
         STREET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
         VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
         VESSEL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1546.01.
         WATERS IN THIS STATE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1546.01.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any
object at, onto, or in the path of any of the following:
         (a)   Any vehicle on a highway;
         (b)   Any boat or vessel on any of the waters in this state.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of vehicular
vandalism. Except as otherwise provided in this division (B)(3), vehicular
vandalism is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation of this
division (B) creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person or the
violation of this division (B) causes serious physical harm to property,
vehicular vandalism is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
If the violation of this division (B) causes physical harm to any person or
serious physical harm to any person, vehicular vandalism is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.09)
Statutory reference:
   Disrupting public services, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.04
   Vandalism, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.05
§ 131.04 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with the either of the following:
         (a)   The property of another;
         (b)   One’s own residential real property with the purpose to decrease
the value of or enjoyment of the residential real property, if both of the
following apply:
            1.   The residential real property is subject to a mortgage.
            2.   The person has been served with a summons and complaint in a
pending residential mortgage loan foreclosure action relating to that real
property. As used in this division, “pending” includes the time between
judgment entry and confirmation of sale.
      (2)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of property of
another, employ a tear gas device, stink bomb, smoke generator, or other device
releasing a substance that is harmful or offensive to persons exposed, or that
tends to cause public alarm;
      (3)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with a bench mark, triangulation
station, boundary marker, or other survey station, monument, or marker;
      (4)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with any safety device, the property of
another, or the property of the offender when required or placed for the safety
of others, so as to destroy or diminish its effectiveness or availability for
its intended purpose;
      (5)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of the property
of another, set a fire on the land of another or place personal property that
has been set on fire on the land of another, which fire or personal property is
outside and apart from any building, other structure, or personal property that
is on that land;
      (6)   Without privilege to do so, and with intent to impair the
functioning of any computer, computer system, computer network, computer
software, or computer program, knowingly do any of the following:
         (a)   In any manner or by any means, including but not limited to
computer hacking, alter, damage, destroy, or modify a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software, or computer program or data
contained in a computer, computer system, computer network, computer software,
or computer program;
         (b)   Introduce a computer contaminant into a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software, or computer program.
      (7)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly destroy or improperly tamper
with a critical infrastructure facility.
   (B)   As used in this section:
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2911.21.
      IMPROPERLY TAMPER. Means to change the physical location or the physical
condition of the property.
      SAFETY DEVICE. Means any fire extinguisher, fire hose, or fire axe, or
any fire escape, emergency exit, or emergency escape equipment, or any life
line, life-saving ring, life preserver, or life boat or raft, or any alarm,
light, flare, signal, sign, or notice intended to warn of danger or emergency,
or intended for other safety purposes, or any guard railing or safety
barricade, or any traffic sign or signal, or any railroad grade crossing sign,
signal, or gate, or any first aid or survival equipment, or any other device,
apparatus, or equipment intended for protecting or preserving the safety of
persons or property.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal mischief,
and shall be punished as provided in division (C)(2), (C)(3), or (C)(4) of this
section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the third degree. Except as otherwise provided
in this division, if the violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section creates a risk of physical harm to any person,
criminal mischief committed in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3),
(A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
property involved in the violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section is an aircraft, an aircraft engine, propeller,
appliance, spare part, fuel, lubricant, hydraulic fluid, any other equipment,
implement, or material used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft, or any cargo carried or intended to be carried in an aircraft and if
the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or if the
aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief committed in
violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the value of the computer, computer system, computer
network, computer software, computer program, or data involved in the violation
of division (A)(6) of this section or the loss to the victim resulting from the
violation is $1,000 or more, or if the computer, computer system, computer
network, computer software, computer program, or data involved in the violation
of division (A)(6) is used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft and the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or
if the aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Criminal mischief committed in violation of division (A)(7) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.07)
§ 131.05 DAMAGING OR ENDANGERING AIRCRAFT OR AIRPORT OPERATIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AIR GUN. Means a hand pistol or rifle that propels its projectile by
means of releasing compressed air, carbon dioxide, or other gas.
      AIRPORT OPERATIONAL SURFACE. Means any surface of land or water that is
developed, posted, or marked so as to give an observer reasonable notice that
the surface is designed and developed for the purpose of storing, parking,
taxiing, or operating aircraft, or any surface of land or water that is
actually being used for any of those purposes.
      FIREARM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
      SPRING-OPERATED GUN. Means a hand pistol or rifle that propels a
projectile not less than four or more than five millimeters in diameter by
means of a spring.
   (B)   No person shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly throw an object at, or drop an object upon, any moving
aircraft.
      (2)   Knowingly shoot with a bow and arrow, or knowingly discharge a
firearm, air gun, or spring-operated gun, at or toward any aircraft.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly or recklessly shoot with a bow and arrow, or
shall knowingly or recklessly discharge a firearm, air gun, or spring-operated
gun, upon or over any airport operational surface. This division does not apply
to the following:
      (1)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or of the
United States, or a law enforcement officer, authorized to discharge firearms
and acting within the scope of his or her duties.
      (2)   A person who, with the consent of the owner or operator of the
airport operational surface or the authorized agent of either, is lawfully
engaged in any hunting or sporting activity or is otherwise lawfully
discharging a firearm.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of endangering
aircraft, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation creates any risk
of physical harm to any person, or if the aircraft that is the subject of the
violation is occupied, endangering aircraft is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of endangering
airport operations, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the violation
creates a risk of physical harm to any person or substantial risk of serious
harm to any person, endangering airport operations is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. In addition to any other penalty or sanction
imposed for the violation, the hunting license or permit of a person who
violates division (C) of this section while hunting shall be suspended or
revoked pursuant to R.C. § 1533.68.
(R.C. § 2909.08(A) - (E))
§ 131.06 CRIMINAL TRESPASS; AGGRAVATED TRESPASS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another;
      (2)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, the
use of which is lawfully restricted to certain persons, purposes, modes, or
hours, when the offender knows the offender is in violation of any such
restriction or is reckless in that regard;
      (3)   Recklessly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, as
to which notice against unauthorized access or presence is given by actual
communication to the offender, or in a manner prescribed by law, or by posting
in a manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential
intruders, or by fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to restrict
access;
      (4)   Being on the land or premises of another, negligently fail or
refuse to leave upon being notified by signage posted in a conspicuous place or
otherwise being notified to do so by the owner or occupant, or the agent or
servant of either;
      (5)   Knowingly enter or remain on a critical infrastructure facility.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the land or
premises involved was owned, controlled, or in custody of a public agency.
   (C)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the offender was
authorized to enter or remain on the land or premises involved, when the
authorization was secured by deception.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal trespass.
Criminal trespass in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Criminal trespass in
violation of division (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28, if the person, in committing the
violation of this section, used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-
purpose vehicle, the court shall impose a fine of two times the usual amount
imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to two or more violations of this section, R.C. § 2911.21 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and the offender, in committing each violation,
used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle, the court,
in addition to or independent of all other penalties imposed for the violation,
may impound the certificate of registration of that snowmobile or off-highway
motorcycle or the certificate of registration and license plate of that all-
purpose vehicle for not less than 60 days. In such a case, R.C. § 4519.47
applies.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, if the
offender, in committing the violation of this section, used an all-purpose
vehicle, the Clerk of the Court shall pay the fine imposed pursuant to this
section to the State Recreational Vehicle Fund created by R.C. § 4519.11.
   (F)   As used in divisions (A) through (E) of this section:
      ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLE, OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE, and SNOWMOBILE. Have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4519.01.
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Means:
         (a)   One of the following, if completely enclosed by a fence or other
physical barrier that is obviously designed to exclude intruders, or if clearly
marked with signs that are reasonably likely to come to the attention of
potential intruders and that indicate entry is forbidden without site
authorization:
            1.   A petroleum or alumina refinery;
            2.   An electric generating facility, substation, switching
station, electrical control center, or electric transmission and distribution
lines and associated equipment;
            3.   A chemical, polymer, or rubber manufacturing facility;
            4.   A water intake structure, water treatment facility, waste
water facility, drainage facility, water management facility, or any similar
water or sewage treatment system and its water and sewage piping;
            5.   A natural gas company facility or interstate natural gas
pipeline, including a pipeline interconnection, a natural gas compressor
station and associated facilities, city gate or town border station, metering
station, above-ground piping, regulator station, valve site, delivery station,
fabricated assembly, or any other part of a natural gas storage facility
involved in the gathering, storage, transmission, or distribution of gas;
            6.   A telecommunications central switching office or remote
switching facility or an equivalent network facility that serves a similar
purpose;
            7.   Wireline or wireless telecommunications infrastructure,
including telecommunications towers and telephone poles and lines, including
fiber optic lines;
            8.   A port, trucking terminal, or other freight transportation
facility;
            9.   A gas processing plant, including a plant used in the
processing, treatment, or fractionation of natural gas or natural gas liquids;
            10.   A transmission facility used by a federally licensed radio or
television station;
            11.   A steel-making facility that uses an electric arc furnace to
make steel;
            12.   A facility identified and regulated by the United States
Department of Homeland Security’s Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards
Program under 6 C.F.R. part 27;
            13.   A dam that is regulated by the state or federal government;
            14.   A crude oil or refined products storage and distribution
facility, including valve sites, pipeline interconnections, pump station,
metering station, below- or above-ground pipeline, or piping and truck loading
or off-loading facility;
            15.   A video service network and broadband infrastructure,
including associated buildings and facilities, video service headends, towers,
utility poles, and utility lines such as fiber optic lines. As used in this
division, “video service network” has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
            16.   Any above-ground portion of an oil, gas, hazardous liquid or
chemical pipeline, tank, or other storage facility;
            17.   Any above-ground portion of a well, well pad, or production
operation;
            18.   A laydown area or construction site for pipe and other
equipment intended for use on an interstate or intrastate natural gas or crude
oil pipeline;
            19.   Any mining operation, including any processing equipment,
batching operation, or support facility for that mining operation.
         (b)   With respect to a video service network or broadband or wireless
telecommunications infrastructure, the above-ground portion of a facility
installed in a public right-of- way on a utility pole or in a conduit;
         (c)   Any railroad property;
         (d)   An electronic asset of any of the following:
            1.   An electric light company that is a public utility under R.C.
§ 4905.02;
            2.   An electric cooperative, as defined in R.C. § 4928.01;
            3.   A municipal electric utility, as defined in R.C. § 4928.01;
            4.   A natural gas company that is a public utility under R.C. §
4905.02;
            5.   A telephone company that is a public utility under R.C. §
4905.02;
            6.   A video service provider, including a cable operator, as those
terms are defined in R.C. § 1332.21.
      ELECTRONIC ASSET. Includes, but is not limited to, the hardware,
software, and data of a programmable electronic device; all communications,
operations, and customer data networks; and the contents of those data
networks.
      LAND or PREMISES. Includes any land, building, structure, or place
belonging to, controlled by, or in custody of another, and any separate
enclosure or room, or portion thereof.
      PRODUCTION OPERATION, WELL, and WELL PAD. Have the same meanings as in
R.C. § 1509.01.
(R.C. § 2911.21)
   (G)   Aggravated trespass.
      (1)   (a)   No person shall enter or remain on the land or premises of
another with purpose to commit on that land or those premises a misdemeanor,
the elements of which involve causing physical harm to another person or
causing another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to
that person.
         (b)   No person shall enter or remain on a critical infrastructure
facility with purpose to destroy or tamper with the facility.
      (2)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of aggravated trespass.
Aggravated trespass in violation of division (G)(1)(a) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Aggravated trespass in violation of division
(G)(1)(b) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (3)   As used in this division (G), CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 2911.21.
(R.C. § 2911.211)
   (H)   Criminal trespass on a place of public amusement.
      (1)   As used in this division (H), PLACE OF PUBLIC AMUSEMENT means a
stadium, theater, or other facility, whether licensed or not, at which a live
performance, sporting event, or other activity takes place for entertainment of
the public and to which access is made available to the public, regardless of
whether admission is charged.
      (2)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly enter or
remain on any restricted portion of a place of public amusement and, as a
result of that conduct, interrupt or cause the delay of the live performance,
sporting event, or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement
after a printed written notice has been given as provided in division (H)(4)(a)
of this section that the general public is restricted from access to that
restricted portion of the place of public amusement. A restricted portion of a
place of public amusement may include but is not limited to a playing field, an
athletic surface, or a stage located at the place of public amusement.
      (3)   An owner or lessee of a place of public amusement, an agent of the
owner or lessee, or a performer or participant at a place of public amusement
may use reasonable force to restrain and remove a person from a restricted
portion of the place of public amusement if the person enters or remains on the
restricted portion of the place of public amusement and, as a result of that
conduct, interrupts or causes the delay of the live performance, sporting
event, or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement. This
division does not provide immunity from criminal liability for any use of force
beyond reasonable force by an owner or lessee of a place of public amusement,
an agent of either the owner or lessee, or a performer or participant at a
place of public amusement.
      (4)   (a)   Notice has been given that the general public is restricted
from access to a portion of a place of public amusement if a printed written
notice of the restricted access has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at
the entrance to that portion of the place of public amusement. If a printed
written notice is posted or exhibited as described in this division regarding a
portion of a place of public amusement, in addition to that posting or
exhibition, notice that the general public is restricted from access to that
portion of the place of public amusement also may be given, but is not required
to be given, by either of the following means:
            1.   By notifying the person personally, either orally or in
writing, that access to that portion of the place of public amusement is
restricted;
            2.   By broadcasting over the public address system of the place of
public amusement an oral warning that access to that portion of the place of
public amusement is restricted.
         (b)   If notice that the general public is restricted from access to a
portion of a place of public amusement is provided by the posting or exhibition
of a printed written notice as described in division (H)(4)(a) of this section,
the municipality, in a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (H)(2)
of this section, is not required to prove that the defendant received actual
notice that the general public is restricted from access to a portion of a
place of public amusement.
      (5)   (a)   Whoever violates division (H)(2) of this section is guilty of
criminal trespass on a place of public amusement, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
         (b)   In addition to any jail term, fine, or other sentence, penalty,
or sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to division (H)(5)(a) of this
section, a court may require an offender who violates this section to perform
not less than 30 and not more than 120 hours of supervised community service
work.
(R.C. § 2911.23)
Cross-reference:
   Violation of protection orders, see §
135.23
§ 131.07 TAMPERING WITH COIN MACHINES.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to commit theft or to defraud, shall knowingly
enter, force an entrance into, tamper with, or insert any part of an instrument
into any coin machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with coin
machines, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of this section or of any theft offense as
defined in R.C. § 2913.01, tampering with coin machines is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2911.32)
§ 131.08 THEFT.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to deprive the owner of property or services,
shall knowingly obtain or exert control over either the property or services in
any of the following ways:
      (1)   Without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give
consent;
      (2)   Beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of the owner or
person authorized to give consent;
      (3)   By deception;
      (4)   By threat;
      (5)   By intimidation.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of theft. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, a violation of this section is misdemeanor theft, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If any of the following criteria are met, then
a violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law:
      (1)   If the value of the property or services is $1,000 or more;
      (2)   If the property stolen is any of the property listed in R.C. §
2913.71;
      (3)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person, disabled adult,
active duty service member, or spouse of an active duty service member;
      (4)   If the property stolen is a firearm or dangerous ordnance;
      (5)   If the property stolen is a motor vehicle;
      (6)   If the property stolen is any dangerous drug, or if the offender
previously has been convicted of a felony drug abuse offense;
      (7)   If the property stolen is a police dog or horse or an assistance
dog and the offender knows or should know that the property stolen is a police
dog or horse or an assistance dog;
      (8)   If the property stolen is anhydrous ammonia; or
      (9)    If the property stolen is a special purchase article as defined in
R.C. § 4737.04 or is a bulk merchandise container as defined in R.C. §
4737.012.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties described in division (B) of this
section, if the offender committed the violation by causing a motor vehicle to
leave the premises of an establishment at which gasoline is offered for retail
sale without the offender making full payment for gasoline that was dispensed
into the fuel tank of the motor vehicle or into another container, the court
may do one of the following:
      (1)   Unless division (C)(2) of this section applies, suspend for not
more than six months the offenders driver’s license, probationary driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or
nonresident operating privilege;
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s license, probationary driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or nonresident
operating privilege has previously been suspended pursuant to division (C)(1)
of this section, or any other substantially equivalent state or local law,
impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s license, permit, or privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7), provided that the suspension
shall be at least six months;
      (3)   The court, in lieu of suspending the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, probationary driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or nonresident operating privilege pursuant to division (C)
(1) or (C)(2) of this section, instead may require the offender to perform
community service for a number of hours determined by the court.
   (D)   In addition to the penalties described in division (B) of this
section, if the offender committed the violation by stealing rented property or
rental services, the court may order that the offender make restitution
pursuant to R.C. § 2929.18 or R.C. § 2929.28. Restitution may include, but is
not limited to, the cost of repairing or replacing the stolen property, or the
cost of repairing the stolen property and any loss of revenue resulting from
deprivation of the property due to theft of rental services that is less than
or equal to the actual value of the property at the time it was rented.
Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental services shall
be determined pursuant to the provisions of R.C. § 2913.72.
   (E)   The sentencing court that suspends an offender’s license, permit, or
nonresident operating privilege under division (C) of this section may grant
the offender limited driving privileges during the period of the suspension in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 4510.
(R.C. § 2913.02)
Statutory reference:
   Felony theft provisions, see R.C. § 2913.02(B)
§ 131.09 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF A VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorcycle, motorboat, or other motor-propelled vehicle without the consent of
the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorboat, or other motor-propelled vehicle without the consent of the owner or
person authorized to give consent, and either remove it from this state, or
keep possession of it for more than 48 hours.
   (C)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section:
      (1)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor, though mistaken,
reasonably believed that he or she was authorized to use or operate the
property.
      (2)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor reasonably believed
that the owner or person empowered to give consent would authorize the actor to
use or operate the property.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unauthorized use of a
vehicle.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (D)(1), a violation
of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled adult and if the victim
incurs a loss as a result of the violation, a violation of division (A) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.03)
Statutory reference:
   Theft offense involving a motor vehicle, offender to pay towing and storage
fees, see R.C. § 2913.82
§ 131.10 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PROPERTY, INCLUDING TELECOMMUNICATION PROPERTY AND
COMPUTERS; POSSESSION OF MUNICIPAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly use or operate the property of another
without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (B)   No person, in any manner and by any means, including but not limited
to computer hacking, shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
or cause access to be gained to any computer, computer system, computer
network, cable service, cable system, telecommunications device,
telecommunications service, or information service without the consent of, or
beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of, the owner of the
computer, computer system, computer network, cable service, cable system,
telecommunications device, telecommunications service, or information service
or other person authorized to give consent.
   (C)   Except as permitted under R.C. § 5503.101, no person shall knowingly
gain access to, attempt to gain access to, cause access to be granted to, or
disseminate information gained from access to the law enforcement automated
database system created pursuant to R.C. § 5503.10 without the consent of, or
beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of, the chair of the Law
Enforcement Automated Data System Steering Committee.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
cause access to be granted to, or disseminate information gained from access to
the Ohio law enforcement gateway established and operated pursuant to R.C. §
109.57(C)(1) without the consent of, or beyond the scope of the express or
implied consent of, the Superintendent of the Bureau of Criminal Identification
and Investigation.
   (E)   The affirmative defenses contained in R.C. § 2913.03(C) are
affirmative defenses to a charge under this section.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of property. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
unauthorized use of property is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (1)   If unauthorized use of property is committed for the purpose of
devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to obtain property or services,
unauthorized use of property is whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided below, unauthorized use of property
is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the value of the property or services or the loss to the
victim is $1,000 or more, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (2)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, unauthorized use of property is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of computer, cable, or telecommunication property, a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (H)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of the law enforcement automated database system, a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of the Ohio law enforcement gateway, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      CABLE OPERATOR. Means any person or group of persons that does either of
the following:
         (a)   Provides cable service over a cable system and directly through
one or more affiliates owns a significant interest in that cable system;
         (b)   Otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any
arrangement, the management and operation of a cable system.
      CABLE SERVICE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming or
of information that a cable operator makes available to all subscribers
generally;
         (b)   Subscriber interaction, if any, that is required for the
selection or use of video programming or of information that a cable operator
makes available to all subscribers generally, both as described in division (a)
of this definition;
         (c)   Any cable television service.
      CABLE SYSTEM. Means any facility, consisting of a set of closed
transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception, and control
equipment that is designed to provide cable service that includes video
programming and that is provided to multiple subscribers within a community.
The term does not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any facility that serves only to retransmit the television
signals of one or more television broadcast stations;
         (b)   Any facility that serves subscribers without using any public
right-of-way;
         (c)   Any facility of a common carrier that, under 47 U.S.C. § 522(7)
(c), is excluded from the term “cable system” as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(7);
         (d)   Any open video system that complies with 47 U.S.C. § 573;
         (e)   Any facility of any electric utility used solely for operating
its electric utility system.
(R.C. § 2913.04)
   (K)   Possession of municipal property.
      (1)   No person shall, without being authorized, have in his or her
control or possession any equipment, tools, implements or other property
belonging to the municipality.
(R.C. § 5589.12)
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (K) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
Statutory reference:
   Telecommunications: fraud and unlawful use of a device, felony offenses, see
R.C. §§ 2913.05 and 2913.06
§ 131.11 PASSING BAD CHECKS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CHECK. Includes any form of debit from a demand deposit account,
including but not limited to any of the following:
         (a)   A check, bill of exchange, draft, order of withdrawal, or
similar negotiable or non-negotiable instrument;
         (b)   An electronic check, electronic transaction, debit card
transaction, check card transaction, substitute check, web check, or any form
of automated clearing house transaction.
      ISSUE A CHECK. Means causing any form of debit from a demand deposit
account.
   (B)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall issue or transfer or cause
to be issued or transferred a check or other negotiable instrument, knowing
that it will be dishonored or knowing that a person has ordered or will order
stop payment on the check or other negotiable instrument.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, a person who issues or transfers a check
or other negotiable instrument is presumed to know that it will be dishonored
if either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The drawer has no account with the drawee at the time of issue or
the stated date, whichever is later.
      (2)   The check or other negotiable instrument was properly refused
payment for insufficient funds upon presentment within 30 days after issue or
the stated date, whichever is later, and the liability of the drawer, indorser,
or any party who may be liable thereon is not discharged by payment or
satisfaction within ten days after receiving notice of dishonor.
   (D)   In determining the value of the payment for purposes of division (E)
of this section, the court may aggregate all checks and other negotiable
instruments that the offender issued or transferred or caused to be issued or
transferred in violation of division (B) of this section within a period of 180
consecutive days.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of passing bad checks. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, passing bad checks is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the check or checks or other negotiable instrument or
instruments are issued or transferred to a single vendor or single other person
for the payment of $1,000 or more, or if the check or checks or other
negotiable instrument or instruments are issued or transferred to multiple
vendors or persons for the payment of $1,500 or more, passing bad checks is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.11)
§ 131.12 MISUSE OF CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Practice deception for the purpose of procuring the issuance of a
credit card, when a credit card is issued in actual reliance thereon;
      (2)   Knowingly buy or sell a credit card from or to a person other than
the issuer;
      (3)   As an officer, employee, or appointee of a political subdivision or
as a public servant as defined under R.C. § 2921.01, knowingly misuse a credit
card account held by a political subdivision.
   (B)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Obtain control over a credit card as security for a debt;
      (2)   Obtain property or services by the use of a credit card, in one or
more transactions, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the card
has expired or been revoked, or was obtained, is retained, or is being used in
violation of law;
      (3)   Furnish property or services upon presentation of a credit card,
knowing that the card is being used in violation of law;
      (4)   Represent or cause to be represented to the issuer of a credit card
that property or services have been furnished, knowing that the representation
is false.
   (C)   No person, with purpose to violate this section, shall receive,
possess, control, or dispose of a credit card.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misuse of credit cards.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section, a
violation of division (A), (B)(1), or (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division or division (D)(3) of
this section, a violation of division (B)(2), (B)(3), or (B)(4) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the cumulative retail value of the
property and services involved in one or more violations of division (B)(2),
(B)(3), or (B)(4) of this section which violations involve one or more credit
card accounts and occur within a period of 90 consecutive days commencing on
the date of the first violation, is $1,000 or more, misuse of credit cards is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, and if the offense involves a violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of
this section, misuse of credit cards is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.21)
§ 131.13 MAKING OR USING SLUGS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Insert or deposit a slug in a coin machine, with purpose to
defraud;
      (2)   Make, possess, or dispose of a slug, with purpose of enabling
another to defraud by inserting or depositing it in a coin machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or using slugs, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2913.33)
§ 131.14 PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE OF PURPOSE TO DEFRAUD.
   In a prosecution of a person for a theft offense that alleges that the
person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she was facilitating a
fraud, hired or rented an aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat,
sailboat, camper, trailer, horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, kept
or operated any of the same that has been hired or rented, or engaged
accommodations at a hotel, motel, inn, campground, or other hostelry, it is
prima facie evidence of purpose to defraud if the person did any of the
following:
   (A)   Used deception to induce the rental agency to furnish the person with
the aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat, sailboat, camper, trailer,
horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, or used deception to induce the
hostelry to furnish the person with accommodations;
   (B)   Hired or rented any aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat,
sailboat, camper, trailer, horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, or
engaged accommodations, knowing that he or she is without sufficient means to
pay the hire or rental;
   (C)   Absconded without paying the hire or rental;
   (D)   Knowingly failed to pay the hire or rental as required by the contract
of hire or rental, without reasonable excuse for the failure;
   (E)   Knowingly failed to return hired or rented property as required by the
contract of hire or rental, without reasonable excuse for the failure.
(R.C. § 2913.41)
§ 131.15 TAMPERING WITH RECORDS.
   (A)   No person, knowing that he or she has no privilege to do so, and with
purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is facilitating a fraud, shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Falsify, destroy, remove, conceal, alter, deface, or mutilate any
writing, computer software, data, or record;
      (2)   Utter any writing or record, knowing it to have been tampered with
as provided in division (A)(1) of this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with records.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if the
offense does not involve data or computer software, tampering with records is
whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   If division (B)(1)(b) of this section does not apply, it is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the writing or record is a will unrevoked at the time of the
offense, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if the
offense involves a violation of division (A) of this section involving data or
computer software, tampering with records is whichever of the following is
applicable:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this
section, it is a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         (b)   If the value of the data or computer software involved in the
offense or the loss to the victim is $1,000 or more or if the offense is
committed for the purpose of devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to
obtain property or services and the value of the property or services or the
loss to the victim is $7,500 or more, it is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the writing, data, computer software, or record is kept by or
belongs to a local, state, or federal governmental entity, it is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.42)
§ 131.16 SECURING WRITINGS BY DECEPTION.
   (A)   No person, by deception, shall cause another to execute any writing
that disposes of or encumbers property, or by which a pecuniary obligation is
incurred.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of securing writings by
deception. Except as otherwise provided in this division, securing writings by
deception is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property or
the obligation involved is $1,000 or more, securing writings by deception is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate to state law. If the victim of the
offense is an elderly person, disabled adult, active duty service member, or
spouse of an active duty service member, securing writings by deception is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.43)
§ 131.17 DEFRAUDING CREDITORS.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud one or more of his or her
creditors, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Remove, conceal, destroy, encumber, convey, or otherwise deal with
any of his or her property;
      (2)   Misrepresent or refuse to disclose to a fiduciary appointed to
administer or manage his or her affairs or estate, the existence, amount, or
location of any of his or her property, or any other information regarding the
property which he or she is legally required to furnish to the fiduciary.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of defrauding creditors.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, defrauding creditors is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property involved is
$1,000 or more, defrauding creditors is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.45)
§ 131.18 RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall receive, retain, or dispose of property of another
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the property has been
obtained through commission of a theft offense.
   (B)   It is not a defense to a charge of receiving stolen property in
violation of this section that the property was obtained by means other than
through the commission of a theft offense if the property was explicitly
represented to the accused person as being obtained through the commission of a
theft offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of receiving stolen property.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, receiving stolen property is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If any of the following criteria are met, then
a violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law:
      (1)   The value of the property involved is $1,000 or more;
      (2)   The property involved is any of the property listed in R.C. §
2913.71;
      (3)   The property involved is a firearm or dangerous ordnance, as
defined in R.C. § 2923.11;
      (4)   The property involved is a motor vehicle as defined in R.C. §
4501.01;
      (5)   The property involved is any dangerous drug, as defined in R.C. §
4729.01; or
      (6)   The property involved in violation of this section is a special
purchase article as defined in R.C. § 4737.04 or a bulk merchandise container
as defined in R.C. § 4737.012.
(R.C. § 2913.51)
§ 131.19 VALUE OF STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (A)   If more than one item of property or services is involved in a theft
offense or in a violation of R.C. § 1716.14(A) involving a victim who is an
elderly person or disabled adult, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, the value of the property or services involved for the purpose of
determining the value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value
of all property or services involved in the offense.
   (B)   (1)   When a series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02, or a series of
violations of, attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or
complicity in violations of R.C. § 1716.14(A), R.C. § 2913.02, 2913.03, or
2913.04, R.C. § 2913.21(B)(1) or (B)(2), or R.C. § 2913.31 or 2913.43 involving
a victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, is committed by the
offender in the offender’s same employment, capacity, or relationship to
another, all of those offenses shall be tried as a single offense. When a
series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02, or a series of violations of, attempts
to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations
of R.C. § 2913.02 or 2913.43 involving a victim who is an active duty service
member or spouse of an active duty service member, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, is committed by the
offender in the offender’s same employment, capacity, or relationship to
another, all of those offenses shall be tried as a single offense. The value of
the property or services involved in the series of offenses for the purpose of
determining the value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value
of all property and services involved in all offenses in the series.
      (2)   If an offender commits a series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02
that involves a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims, all of
the offenses may be tried as a single offense. If an offender is being tried
for the commission of a series of violations of, attempts to commit a violation
of, conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations of R.C. § 1716.14(A),
R.C. § 2913.02, 2913.03, or 2913.04, R.C. § 2913.21(B)(1) or (B)(2), or R.C. §
2913.31 or 2913.43, whether committed against one victim or more than one
victim, involving a victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, pursuant
to a scheme or course of conduct, all of those offenses may be tried as a
single offense. If an offender is being tried for the commission of a series of
violations of, attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or
complicity in violations of R.C. § 2913.02 or 2913.43, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, whether committed
against one victim or more than one victim, involving a victim who is an active
duty service member or spouse of an active duty service member pursuant to a
scheme or course of conduct, all of those offenses may be tried as a single
offense. If the offenses are tried as a single offense, the value of the
property or services involved for the purpose of determining the value as
required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property and
services involved in all of the offenses in the course of conduct.
      (3)   When a series of two or more offenses under R.C. § 2913.40,
2913.48, or 2921.41 is committed by the offender in the offender’s same
employment, capacity, or relationship to another, all of those offenses may be
tried as a single offense. If the offenses are tried as a single offense, the
value of the property or services involved for the purpose of determining the
value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property
and services involved in all of the offenses in the series of two or more
offenses.
      (4)   In prosecuting a single offense under division (B)(1), (B)(2) or
(B)(3) of this section, it is not necessary to separately allege and prove each
offense in the series. Rather, it is sufficient to allege and prove that the
offender, within a given span of time, committed one or more theft offenses or
violations of R.C. § 2913.40, 2913.48, or 2921.41 in the offender’s same
employment, capacity, or relationship to another as described in division (B)
(1) or (B)(3) of this section, or committed one or more theft offenses that
involve a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims or a scheme or
course of conduct as described in division (B)(2) of this section. While it is
not necessary to separately allege and prove each offense in the series in
order to prosecute a single offense under division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of
this section, it remains necessary in prosecuting them as a single offense to
prove the aggregate value of the property or services in order to meet the
requisite statutory offense level sought by the prosecution.
   (C)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   The value of an heirloom, memento, collector’s item, antique,
museum piece, manuscript, document, record, or other thing that has intrinsic
worth to its owner and that either is irreplaceable or is replaceable only on
the expenditure of substantial time, effort, or money, is the amount which
would compensate the owner for its loss.
      (2)   The value of personal effects and household goods, and of
materials, supplies, equipment, and fixtures used in the profession, business,
trade, occupation, or avocation of its owner, which property is not covered
under division (C)(1) of this section, and which retains substantial utility
for its purpose regardless of its age or condition, is the cost of replacing
such property with new property of like kind and quality.
      (3)   The value of any real or personal property that is not covered
under division (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section, and the value of services, is
the fair market value of the property or services. As used in this section,
FAIR MARKET VALUE is the money consideration which a buyer would give and a
seller would accept for property or services, assuming that the buyer is
willing to buy and the seller is willing to sell, that both are fully informed
as to all facts material to the transaction, and that neither is under any
compulsion to act.
   (D)   Without limitation on the evidence which may be used to establish the
value of property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   When the property involved is personal property held for sale at
wholesale or retail, the price at which the property was held for sale is prima
facie evidence of its value.
      (2)   When the property involved is a security or commodity traded on an
exchange, the closing price or, if there is no closing price, the asked price,
given in the latest marked quotation prior to the offense, is prima facie
evidence of the value of the security or commodity.
      (3)   When the property involved is livestock, poultry, or raw
agricultural products for which a local market price is available, the latest
local market price prior to the offense is prima facie evidence of the value of
the livestock, poultry, or products.
      (4)   When the property involved is a negotiable instrument, the face
value is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (5)   When the property involved is a warehouse receipt, bill of lading,
pawn ticket, claim check, or other instrument entitling the holder or bearer to
receive property, the face value or, if there is no face value, the value of
the property covered by the instrument less any payment necessary to receive
the property, is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (6)   When the property involved is a ticket of admission, ticket for
transportation, coupon, token, or other instrument entitling the holder or
bearer to receive property or services, the face value or, if there is no face
value, the value of the property or services which may be received by the
instrument is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (7)   When the services involved are gas, electricity, water, telephone,
transportation, shipping, or other services for which the rate is established
by law, the duly established rate is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services.
      (8)   When the services involved are services for which the rate is not
established by law, and the offender has been notified prior to the offense of
the rate for the services, either in writing, or orally, or by posting in a
manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential offenders,
the rate contained in the notice is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services.
(R.C. § 2913.61(B) - (E))
§ 131.20 DEGREE OF OFFENSE WHEN CERTAIN PROPERTY INVOLVED.
   Regardless of the value of the property involved, and regardless of whether
the offender previously has been convicted of a theft offense, a violation of §
131.08 or §
131.18 is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the property
involved is any of the following:
   (A)   A credit card;
   (B)   A printed form for a check or other negotiable instrument, that on its
face identifies the drawer or maker for whose use it is designed or identifies
the account on which it is to be drawn, and that has not been executed by the
drawer or maker or on which the amount is blank;
   (C)   A motor vehicle identification license plate as prescribed by R.C. §
4503.22, a temporary motor vehicle license registration as prescribed by R.C. §
4503.182, or any comparable temporary motor vehicle license registration as
prescribed by the applicable law of another state or the United States;
   (D)   A blank form for a certificate of title or a manufacturer’s or
importer’s certificate to a motor vehicle, as prescribed by R.C. § 4505.07;
   (E)   A blank form for any license listed in R.C. § 4507.01.
(R.C. § 2913.71)
§ 131.21 INJURING VINES, BUSHES, TREES, OR CROPS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall recklessly cut down,
destroy, girdle, or otherwise injure a vine, bush, shrub, sapling, tree, or
crop standing or growing on the land of another or upon public land.
   (B)   In addition to the penalty provided in division (C) of this section,
whoever violates this section is liable in treble damages for the injury
caused.
(R.C. § 901.51)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 901.99(A))
§ 131.22 DETENTION AND ARREST OF SHOPLIFTERS AND THOSE COMMITTING MOTION
PICTURE PIRACY; PROTECTION OF INSTITUTIONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ARCHIVAL INSTITUTION. Means any public or private building, structure, or
shelter in which are stored historical documents, devices, records,
manuscripts, or items of public interest, which historical materials are stored
to preserve the materials or the information in the materials, to disseminate
the information contained in the materials, or to make the materials available
for public inspection or for inspection by certain persons who have a
particular interest in, use for, or knowledge concerning the materials.
      AUDIOVISUAL RECORDING FUNCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2913.07.
      FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.07.
      MUSEUM. Means any public or private nonprofit institution that is
permanently organized for primarily educational or aesthetic purposes, owns or
borrows objects or items of public interest, and cares for and exhibits to the
public the objects or items.
      PRETRIAL DIVERSION PROGRAM. Means a rehabilitative, educational program
designed to reduce recidivism and promote personal responsibility that is at
least four hours in length and that has been approved by any court in this
state.
   (B)   A merchant, or an employee or agent of a merchant, who has probable
cause to believe that things offered for sale by a mercantile establishment
have been unlawfully taken by a person, may, for the purposes set forth in
division (D) below, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable
length of time within the mercantile establishment or its immediate vicinity.
   (C)   Any officer, employee, or agent of a library, museum, or archival
institution may, for the purposes set forth in division (D) below or for the
purpose of conducting a reasonable investigation of a belief that the person
has acted in a manner described in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) below, detain a
person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of time within, or in the
immediate vicinity of, the library, museum, or archival institution, if the
officer, employee, or agent has probable cause to believe that the person has:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly moved, defaced, damaged,
destroyed, or otherwise improperly tampered with property owned by or in the
custody of the library, museum, or archival institution; or
      (2)   With purpose to deprive the library, museum, or archival
institution of property owned by it or in its custody, knowingly obtained or
exerted control over the property without the consent of the owner or person
authorized to give consent, beyond the scope of the express or implied consent
of the owner or person authorized to give consent, by deception, or by threat.
   (D)   An officer, agent, or employee of a library, museum, or archival
institution pursuant to division (C) above or a merchant or an employee or
agent of a merchant pursuant to division (B) above may detain another person
for any of the following purposes:
      (1)   To recover the property that is the subject of the unlawful taking,
criminal mischief, or theft;
      (2)   To cause an arrest to be made by a peace officer;
      (3)   To obtain a warrant of arrest;
      (4)   To offer the person, if the person is suspected of the unlawful
taking, criminal mischief, or theft and notwithstanding any other provision of
this Code or the Ohio Revised Code, an opportunity to complete a pretrial
diversion program and to inform the person of the other legal remedies
available to the library, museum, archival institution, or merchant.
   (E)   The owner or lessee of a facility in which a motion picture is being
shown, or the owner’s or lessee’s employee or agent, who has probable cause to
believe that a person is or has been operating an audiovisual recording
function of a device in violation of R.C. § 2917.07 may, for the purpose of
causing an arrest to be made by a peace officer or of obtaining an arrest
warrant, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of
time within the facility or its immediate vicinity.
   (F)   The officer, agent, or employee of the library, museum, or archival
institution, the merchant or an employee or agent of a merchant, or the owner,
lessee, employee, or agent of the facility acting under divisions (B), (C) or
(E) above shall not search the person detained, search or seize any property
belonging to the person detained without the person’s consent, or use undue
restraint upon the person detained.
   (G)   Any peace officer may arrest without a warrant any person that the
officer has probable cause to believe has committed any act described in
divisions (C)(1) or (C)(2) above, that the officer has probable cause to
believe has committed an unlawful taking in a mercantile establishment, or that
the officer has reasonable cause to believe has committed an act prohibited by
R.C. § 2913.07. An arrest under this division shall be made within a reasonable
time after the commission of the act or unlawful taking.
(R.C. § 2935.041)
Statutory reference:
   Arrest without a warrant generally, see R.C. § 2935.03
   Probable cause, see R.C. § 2933.22
§ 131.23 INSURANCE FRAUD; WORKERS’ COMPENSATION FRAUD; MEDICAID FRAUD.
   (A)   Insurance fraud.
      (1)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   Present to, or cause to be presented to, an insurer any written
or oral statement that is part of, or in support of, an application for
insurance, a claim for payment pursuant to a policy, or a claim for any other
benefit pursuant to a policy, knowing that the statement, or any part of the
statement, is false or deceptive;
         (b)   Assist, aid, abet, solicit, procure, or conspire with another to
prepare or make any written or oral statement that is intended to be presented
to an insurer as part of, or in support of, an application for insurance, a
claim for payment pursuant to a policy, or a claim for any other benefit
pursuant to a policy, knowing that the statement, or any part of the statement,
is false or deceptive.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of insurance fraud.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, insurance fraud is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the amount of the claim that is false or deceptive is
$1,000 or more, insurance fraud is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   This division (A) shall not be construed to abrogate, waive, or
modify R.C. § 2317.02(A).
      (4)   As used in this division (A):
         DATA. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01 and additionally
includes any other representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts,
or instructions that are being or have been prepared in a formalized manner.
         DECEPTIVE. Means that a statement, in whole or in part, would cause
another to be deceived because it contains a misleading representation,
withholds information, prevents the acquisition of information, or by any other
conduct, act, or omission creates, confirms, or perpetuates a false impression,
including but not limited to a false impression as to law, value, state of
mind, or other objective or subjective fact.
         INSURER. Means any person that is authorized to engage in the business
of insurance in this state under R.C. Title 39, the Ohio Fair Plan Underwriting
Association created under R.C. § 3929.43, any health insuring corporation, and
any legal entity that is self-insured and provides benefits to its employees or
members.
         POLICY. Means a policy, certificate, contract, or plan that is issued
by an insurer.
         STATEMENT. Includes but is not limited to any notice, letter, or
memorandum; proof of loss; bill of lading; receipt for payment; invoice,
account, or other financial statement; estimate of property damage; bill for
services; diagnosis or prognosis; prescription; hospital, medical, or dental
chart or other record; x-ray, photograph, videotape, or movie film; test
result; other evidence of loss, injury, or expense; computer-generated
document; and data in any form.
(R.C. § 2913.47)
   (B)   Workers’ compensation fraud.
      (1)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Receive workers’ compensation benefits to which the person is
not entitled;
         (b)   Make or present or cause to be made or presented a false or
misleading statement with the purpose to secure payment for goods or services
rendered under R.C. Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127, or 4131 or to secure workers’
compensation benefits;
         (c)   Alter, falsify, destroy, conceal, or remove any record or
document that is necessary to fully establish the validity of any claim filed
with, or necessary to establish the nature and validity of all goods and
services for which reimbursement or payment was received or is requested from
the Bureau of Workers’ Compensation, or a self-insuring employer under R.C.
Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127, or 4131;
         (d)   Enter into an agreement or conspiracy to defraud the Bureau of
Workers’ Compensation or a self-insuring employer by making or presenting or
causing to be made or presented a false claim for workers’ compensation
benefits;
         (e)   Make or present or cause to be made or presented a false
statement concerning manual codes, classification or employees, payroll, paid
compensation, or number of personnel, when information of that nature is
necessary to determine the actual workers’ compensation premium or assessment
owed to the Bureau by an employer;
         (f)   Alter, forge, or create a workers’ compensation certificate or
falsely show current or correct workers’ compensation coverage;
         (g)   Fail to secure or maintain workers’ compensation coverage as
required by R.C. Chapter 4123 with the intent to defraud the Bureau of Workers’
Compensation.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of workers’
compensation fraud. Except as otherwise provided in this division, workers’
compensation fraud is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of
premiums and assessments unpaid pursuant to actions described in divisions (B)
(1)(e), (B)(1)(f), or (B)(1)(g) of this section, or goods, services, property,
or money stolen is $1,000 or more, workers’ compensation fraud is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Upon application of the governmental body that conducted the
investigation and prosecution of a violation of this division (B), the court
shall order the person who is convicted of the violation to pay the
governmental body its costs of investigating and prosecuting the case. These
costs are in addition to any other costs or penalty provided under federal,
state or local law.
      (4)   The remedies and penalties provided in this division (B) are not
exclusive remedies and penalties and do not preclude the use of any other
criminal or civil remedy or penalty for any act that is in violation of this
division (B).
      (5)   As used in this division (B):
         CLAIM. Means any attempt to cause the Bureau of Workers’ Compensation,
an independent third party with whom the administrator or an employer contracts
under R.C. § 4121.44, or a self-insuring employer to make payment or
reimbursement for workers’ compensation benefits.
         EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4123.01.
         EMPLOYER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4123.01.
         EMPLOYMENT. Means participating in any trade, occupation, business,
service, or profession for substantial gainful remuneration.
         FALSE. Means wholly or partially untrue or deceptive.
         GOODS. Includes but is not limited to medical supplies, appliances,
rehabilitative equipment, and any other apparatus or furnishing provided or
used in the care, treatment, or rehabilitation of a claimant for workers’
compensation benefits.
         RECORDS. Means any medical, professional, financial, or business
record relating to the treatment or care of any person, to goods or services
provided to any person, or to rates paid for goods or services provided to any
person, or any record that the administrator of workers’ compensation requires
pursuant to rule.
         REMUNERATION. Includes but is not limited to wages, commissions,
rebates, and any other reward or consideration.
         SELF-INSURING EMPLOYER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4123.01.
         SERVICES. Includes but is not limited to any service provided by any
health care provider to a claimant for workers’ compensation benefits and any
and all services provided by the Bureau as part of workers’ compensation
insurance coverage.
         STATEMENT. Includes but is not limited to any oral, written,
electronic, electronic impulse, or magnetic communication notice, letter,
memorandum, receipt for payment, invoice, account, financial statement, or bill
for services; a diagnosis, prognosis, prescription, hospital, medical, or
dental chart or other record; and a computer generated document.
         WORKERS’ COMPENSATION BENEFITS. Means any compensation or benefits
payable under R.C. Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127, or 4131.
(R.C. § 2913.48)
   (C)   Medicaid fraud.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a false or
misleading statement or representation for use in obtaining reimbursement from
the Medicaid program.
      (2)   No person, with purpose to commit fraud or knowing that the person
is facilitating a fraud, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   Contrary to the terms of the person’s provider agreement,
charge, solicit, accept or receive for goods or services that the person
provides under the Medicaid program any property, money or other consideration
in addition to the amount of reimbursement under the Medicaid program and the
person’s provider agreement for the goods or services and any cost-sharing
expenses authorized by R.C. § 5162.20 or rules adopted by the Medicaid Director
regarding the Medicaid program.
         (b)   Solicit, offer or receive any remuneration, other than any cost-
sharing expenses authorized by R.C. § 5162.20 or rules adopted by the Medicaid
Director regarding the Medicaid program, in cash or in kind, including but not
limited to a kickback or rebate, in connection with the furnishing of goods or
services for which whole or partial reimbursement is or may be made under the
Medicaid program.
      (3)   No person, having submitted a claim for or provided goods or
services under the Medicaid program, shall do either of the following for a
period of at least six years after a reimbursement pursuant to that claim, or a
reimbursement for those goods or services, is received under the Medicaid
program:
         (a)   Knowingly alter, falsify, destroy, conceal or remove any records
that are necessary to fully disclose the nature of all goods or services for
which the claim was submitted, or for which reimbursement was received, by the
person; or
         (b)   Knowingly alter, falsify, destroy, conceal or remove any records
that are necessary to disclose fully all income and expenditures upon which
rates of reimbursements were based for the person.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (C) is guilty of Medicaid fraud.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, Medicaid fraud is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the value of the property, services or funds obtained
in violation of this section is $1,000 or more, Medicaid fraud is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate State law.
      (5)   Upon application of the governmental agency, office or other entity
that conducted the investigation and prosecution in a case under this section,
the court shall order any person who is convicted of a violation of this
section for receiving any reimbursement for furnishing goods or services under
the Medicaid program to which the person is not entitled to pay to the
applicant its cost of investigating and prosecuting the case. The costs of
investigation and prosecution that a defendant is ordered to pay pursuant to
this division shall be in addition to any other penalties for the receipt of
that reimbursement that are provided in this section, R.C. § 2913.40 or
5164.35, or any other provision of law.
      (6)   The provisions of this section are not intended to be exclusive
remedies and do not preclude the use of any other criminal or civil remedy for
any act that is in violation of this section.
      (7)   As used in this division (C):
         PROVIDER. Means any person who has signed a provider agreement with
the Department of Medicaid to provide goods or services pursuant to the
Medicaid program or any person who has signed an agreement with a party to such
a provider agreement under which the person agrees to provide goods or services
that are reimbursable under the Medicaid program.
         PROVIDER AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
         RECIPIENT. Means any individual who receives goods or services from a
provider under the Medicaid program.
         RECORDS. Means any medical, professional, financial or business
records relating to the treatment or care of any recipient, to goods or
services provided to any recipient, or to rates paid for goods or services
provided to any recipient, and any records that are required by the rules of
the Medicaid Director to be kept for the Medicaid program.
         STATEMENT or REPRESENTATION. Means any oral, written, electronic,
electronic impulse or magnetic communication that is used to identify an item
of goods or a service for which reimbursement may be made under the Medicaid
program or that states income and expense and is or may be used to determine a
rate of reimbursement under the Medicaid program.
(R.C. § 2913.40)
   (D)   Medicaid eligibility fraud.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following in an application
for enrollment in the Medicaid program or in a document that requires a
disclosure of assets for the purpose of determining eligibility for the
Medicaid program:
         (a)   Make or cause to be made a false or misleading statement;
         (b)   Conceal an interest in property;
         (c)   1.   Except as provided in division (D)(1)(c)2. of this section,
fail to disclose a transfer of property that occurred during the period
beginning 36 months before submission of the application or document and ending
on the date the application or document was submitted;
            2.   Fail to disclose a transfer of property that occurred during
the period beginning 60 months before submission of the application or document
and ending on the date the application or document was submitted and that was
made to an irrevocable trust a portion of which is not distributable to the
applicant for or recipient of Medicaid or to a revocable trust.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates this division (D) is guilty of Medicaid
eligibility fraud. Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation
of this division (D) is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the
Medicaid services paid as a result of the violation is $1,000 or more, a
violation of this division (D) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
         (b)   In addition to imposing a sentence under division (D)(2)(a) of
this section, the court shall order that a person who is guilty of Medicaid
eligibility fraud make restitution in the full amount of any Medicaid services
paid on behalf of an applicant for or recipient of Medicaid for which the
applicant or recipient was not eligible, plus interest at the rate applicable
to judgments on unreimbursed amounts from the date on which the Medicaid
services were paid to the date on which restitution is made.
         (c)   The remedies and penalties provided in this division (D) are not
exclusive and do not preclude the use of any other criminal or civil remedy for
any act that is in violation of this division (D).
      (3)   This division (D) does not apply to a person who fully disclosed in
an application for Medicaid or in a document that requires a disclosure of
assets for the purpose of determining eligibility for Medicaid all of the
interests in property of the applicant for or recipient of Medicaid, all
transfers of property by the applicant for or recipient of Medicaid, and the
circumstances of all those transfers.
      (4)   Any amounts of Medicaid services recovered as restitution under
this division (D) and any interest on those amounts shall be credited to the
General Revenue Fund, and any applicable federal share shall be returned to the
appropriate agency or department of the United States.
      (5)   As used in this division (D):
         MEDICAID SERVICES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
         PROPERTY. Means any real or personal property or other asset in which
a person has any legal title or interest.
(R.C. § 2913.401)
§ 131.24 INJURY TO PROPERTY BY HUNTERS.
   (A)   No person in the act of hunting, pursuing, taking, or killing a wild
animal shall act in a negligent, careless, or reckless manner so as to injure
property.
(R.C. § 1533.171(A))
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 1533.99(C))
Statutory reference:
   Violation, license revocation, see R.C. § 1533.171(B) through (E)
§ 131.25 EVIDENCE OF INTENT TO COMMIT THEFT OF RENTED PROPERTY OR RENTAL
SERVICES; EVIDENCE OF LACK OF CAPACITY TO CONSENT.
   (A)   Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental
services.
      (1)   As used in this division (A):
         RENTER. Means a person who owns rented property.
         RENTEE. Means a person who pays consideration to a renter for the use
of rented property.
      (2)   Each of the following shall be considered evidence of intent to
commit theft of rented property or rental services:
         (a)   At the time of entering into the rental contract, the rentee
presented the renter with identification that was materially false, fictitious,
or not current with respect to name, address, place of employment, or other
relevant information.
         (b)   After receiving a notice demanding the return of the rented
property as provided in division (A)(3) of this section, the rentee neither
returned the rented property nor made arrangements acceptable with the renter
to return the rented property.
      (3)   To establish that a rentee has an intent to commit theft of rented
property or rental services under division (A)(2)(b) above, a renter may issue
a notice to a rentee demanding the return of the rented property. The renter
shall mail the notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
rentee at the address the rentee gave when the rental contract was executed, or
to the rentee at the last address the rentee or the rentee’s agent furnished in
writing to the renter.
      (4)   A demand for the return of the rented property is not a
prerequisite for the prosecution of a rentee for theft of rented property or
rental services. The evidence specified in division (A)(2) above does not
constitute the only evidence that may be considered as evidence of intent to
commit theft of rented property or rental services.
(R.C. § 2913.72)
   (B)   Evidence of lack of capacity to consent.
      (1)   In a prosecution for any alleged violation of §
131.08 through
131.20,
131.23,
131.25 through
131.29, or
132.11, if the lack of consent of the victim is an element of the provision
that allegedly was violated, evidence that, at the time of the alleged
violation, the victim lacked the capacity to give consent is admissible to show
that the victim did not give consent.
      (2)   As used in this section, LACKS THE CAPACITY TO CONSENT means being
impaired for any reason to the extent that the person lacks sufficient
understanding or capacity to make and carry out reasonable decisions concerning
the person or the person’s resources.
(R.C. § 2913.73)
§ 131.26 FORGERY OF IDENTIFICATION CARDS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do either of the following:
      (1)   Forge an identification card.
      (2)   Sell or otherwise distribute a card that purports to be an
identification card, knowing it was forged.
   (B)   As used in this section, IDENTIFICATION CARD means a card that
includes personal information or characteristics of an individual, a purpose of
which is to establish the identity of the bearer described on the card, whether
the words “identity”, “identification”, “identification card”, or other similar
words appear on the card.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of forging
identification cards or selling or distributing forged identification cards.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, forging identification cards or
selling or distributing forged identification cards is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of
division (A) of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, forging identification cards or selling or distributing
forged identification cards is a misdemeanor of the first degree and, in
addition, the court shall impose upon the offender a fine not less than $250.
      (2)    If the victim of a violation of this section is an elderly person,
R.C. § 2913.31(C)(2)(b) applies and the offense shall be prosecuted under R.C.
§ 2913.31.
(R.C. § 2913.31(B), (C)(2))
Statutory reference:
   Forgery, felony provisions, see R.C. § 2913.31(A) and (C)(1)
   Forgery of originating address or other routing information in connection
with the transmission of an electronic mail advertisement, felony provisions,
see R.C. § 2307.64
§ 131.27 CRIMINAL SIMULATION.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud, or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Make or alter any object so that it appears to have value because
of antiquity, rarity, curiosity, source, or authorship, which it does not in
fact possess.
      (2)   Practice deception in making, retouching, editing, or reproducing
any photograph, movie film, video tape, phonograph record, or recording tape.
      (3)   Falsely or fraudulently make, simulate, forge, alter, or
counterfeit any wrapper, label, stamp, cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor
Control Commission under R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, falsely or fraudulently
cause to be made, simulated, forged, altered, or counterfeited any wrapper,
label, stamp, cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor Control Commission under
R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, or use more than once any wrapper, label, stamp,
cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor Control Commission under R.C. Chapters
4301 and 4303.
      (4)   Offer, or possess with the purpose to offer, any object that the
person knows to have been simulated as provided in divisions (A)(1), (A)(2) or
(A)(3) of this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal simulation. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, criminal simulation is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the loss to the victim is $1,000 or more, criminal
simulation is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.32)
§ 131.28 PERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is
facilitating a fraud, or with purpose to induce another to purchase property or
services, shall personate a law enforcement officer, or an inspector,
investigator, or agent of any governmental agency.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of personating an officer, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2913.44)
Cross-reference:
   Impersonating an officer (non-fraud offense), see §
132.12
§ 131.29 TRADEMARK COUNTERFEITING.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Attach, affix, or otherwise use a counterfeit mark in connection
with the manufacture of goods or services, whether or not the goods or services
are intended for sale or resale.
      (2)   Possess, sell, or offer for sale tools, machines, instruments,
materials, articles, or other items of personal property with the knowledge
that they are designed for the production or reproduction of counterfeit marks.
      (3)   Purchase or otherwise acquire goods, and keep or otherwise have the
goods in the person’s possession, with the knowledge that a counterfeit mark is
attached to, affixed to, or otherwise used in connection with the goods and
with the intent to sell or otherwise dispose of the goods.
      (4)   Sell, offer for sale, or otherwise dispose of goods with the
knowledge that a counterfeit mark is attached to, affixed to, or otherwise used
in connection with the goods.
      (5)   Sell, offer for sale, or otherwise provide services with the
knowledge that a counterfeit mark is used in connection with that sale, offer
for sale, or other provision of the services.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of trademark counterfeiting.
      (1)   A violation of division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)    Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of
division (A)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
circumstances of the violation indicate that the tools, machines, instruments,
materials, articles, or other items of personal property involved in the
violation were intended for use in the commission of a felony, a violation of
division (A)(2) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of
division (A)(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the cumulative sales price of the goods or services to which or in
connection with which the counterfeit mark is attached, affixed or otherwise
used in the offense is $1,000 or more, a violation of division (A)(3), (A)(4)
or (A)(5) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   A defendant may assert as an affirmative defense to a charge of a
violation of this section defenses, affirmative defenses, and limitations on
remedies that would be available in a civil, criminal or administrative action
or proceeding under the Lanham Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 1051 through 1127, as
amended, the Trademark Counterfeiting Act of 1984, being 18 U.S.C. § 2320, as
amended, R.C. Chapter 1329 or another section of the Ohio Revised Code, or
common law.
   (D)   (1)   Law enforcement officers may seize pursuant to Criminal Rule 41,
R.C. Chapter 2933, or R.C. Chapter 2981 either of the following:
         (a)   Goods to which or in connection with which a person attached,
affixed, otherwise used, or intended to attach, affix or otherwise use a
counterfeit mark in violation of this section.
         (b)   Tools, machines, instruments, materials, articles, vehicles or
other items of personal property that are possessed, sold, offered for sale, or
used in a violation of this section or in an attempt to commit or complicity in
the commission of a violation of this section.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of R.C. Chapter 2981, if a
person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this section, an
attempt to violate this section, or complicity in a violation of this section,
the court involved shall declare that the goods described in division (D)(1)(a)
of this section and the personal property described in division (D)(1)(b) of
this section are contraband and are forfeited. Prior to the court’s entry of
judgment under Criminal Rule 32, the owner of a registered trademark or service
mark that is the subject to the counterfeit mark may recommend a manner in
which the forfeited goods and forfeited personal property should be disposed
of. If that owner makes a timely recommendation of a manner of disposition, the
court is not bound by the recommendation. If that owner makes a timely
recommendation of a manner of disposition, the court may include in its entry
of judgment an order that requires appropriate persons to dispose of the
forfeited goods and forfeited personal property in the recommended manner. If
the owner fails to make a timely recommendation of a manner of disposition or
if that owner makes a timely recommendation of a manner of disposition but the
court determines to not follow the recommendation, the court shall include in
its entry of judgement an order that requires the law enforcement agency that
employs the law enforcement officer who seized the forfeited goods or the
forfeited personal property to destroy them or cause their destruction.
   (E)   This section does not affect the rights of an owner of a trademark or
service mark, or the enforcement in a civil action or in administrative
proceedings of the rights of an owner or a trademark or service mark under the
Lanham Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 1051 through 1127, as amended, the Trademark
Counterfeiting Act of 1984, being 18 U.S.C. § 2320, as amended, R.C. Chapter
1329, or another section of the Ohio Revised Code, or common law.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      COUNTERFEIT MARK.
         (a)   Except as provided in division (b) of this definition, the term
means a spurious trademark or a spurious service mark that satisfies both of
the following:
            1.   It is identical with or substantially indistinguishable from a
mark that is registered on the principal register in the United States Patent
and Trademark Office for the same goods or services as the goods or services to
which or in connection with which the spurious trademark or spurious service
mark is attached, affixed, or otherwise used, or from a mark that is registered
with the Secretary of State pursuant to R.C. §§ 1329.54 through 1329.67 for the
same goods or services as the goods or services to which or in connection with
which the spurious trademark or spurious service mark is attached, affixed, or
otherwise used, and the owner of the registration uses that registered
trademark, whether or not the offender knows that the mark is registered in a
manner described in this division (a)1.
            2.   Its use is likely to cause confusion or mistake or to deceive
other persons.
         (b)   The term does not include a mark or other designation that is
attached to, affixed to, or otherwise used in connection with goods or services
if the holder of the right to use the mark or other designation authorizes the
manufacturer, producer, or vendor of those goods or services to attach, affix,
or otherwise use the mark or other designation in connection with those goods
or services at the time of their manufacture, production or sale.
      CUMULATIVE SALES PRICE. Means the product of the lowest single unit sales
price charged or sought to be charged by an offender for goods to which or in
connection with which a counterfeit mark is attached, affixed, or otherwise
used or of the lowest single service transaction price charged or sought to be
charged by an offender for services in connection with which a counterfeit mark
is used, multiplied by the total number of those goods or services, whether or
not units of goods are sold or are in an offender’s possession, custody or
control.
      REGISTERED TRADEMARK OR SERVICE MARK. Means a trademark or service mark
that is registered in a manner described in division (a) of the definition of
“counterfeit mark”.
      SERVICE MARK. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1329.54.
      TRADEMARK. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1329.54.
(R.C. § 2913.34)
§ 131.30 DIMINISHING OR INTERFERING WITH FORFEITABLE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall destroy, damage, remove, or transfer property that is
subject to forfeiture or otherwise take any action in regard to property that
is subject to forfeiture with purpose to do any of the following:
      (1)   Prevent or impair the state’s or political subdivision’s lawful
authority to take the property into its custody or control under R.C. Chapter
2981 or to continue holding the property under its lawful custody or control;
      (2)   Impair or defeat the court’s continuing jurisdiction over the
person and property;
      (3)   Devalue property that the person knows, or has reasonable cause to
believe, is subject to forfeiture proceedings under R.C. Chapter 2981.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference with or
diminishing forfeitable property. Except as otherwise provided in this division
(B), interference with or diminishing forfeitable property is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the value of the property is $1,000 or more, interference
with or diminishing forfeitable property is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2981.07)
§ 131.31 RECORDING CREDIT CARD, TELEPHONE OR SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBERS.
   (A)   No person shall record or cause to be recorded either of the
following:
      (1)   A credit card account number of the other party to a transaction,
when a check, bill of exchange or other draft is presented for payment; or
      (2)   The telephone number or Social Security account number of the other
party to a transaction, when payment is made by credit card charge agreement,
check, bill of exchange or other draft.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a transaction, if all
of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The credit card account number, Social Security account number or
telephone number is recorded for a legitimate business purpose, including
collection purposes.
      (2)   The other party to the transaction consents to the recording of the
credit card account number, Social Security account number or telephone number.
      (3)   The credit card account number, Social Security account number or
telephone number that is recorded during the course of the transaction is not
disclosed to any third party for any purposes other than collection purposes
and is not used to market goods or services unrelated to the goods or services
purchased in the transaction.
   (C)   Nothing in this section prohibits the recording of the number of a
credit card account when given in lieu of a deposit to secure payment in the
event of default, loss, damage or other occurrence, or requires a person to
accept a check presented for payment, if the other party to the transaction
refuses to consent to the recording of the number of the party’s Social
Security account or license to operate a motor vehicle.
(R.C. § 1349.17)
   (D)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 1349.99(A))
§ 131.32 PROSECUTIONS FOR THEFT OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   In a prosecution for a theft offense, as defined in R.C. § 2913.01,
that involves alleged tampering with a gas, electric, steam or water meter,
conduit or attachment of a utility that has been disconnected by the utility,
proof that a meter, conduit or attachment of a utility has been tampered with
is prima facie evidence that the person who is obligated to pay for the service
rendered through the meter, conduit or attachment, and who is in possession or
control of the meter, conduit or attachment at the time the tampering occurred
has caused the tampering with intent to commit a theft offense.
   (B)   In a prosecution for a theft offense, as defined in R.C. § 2913.01,
that involves the alleged reconnection of a gas, electric, steam or water
meter, conduit or attachment of a utility that has been disconnected by the
utility, proof that a meter, conduit or attachment disconnected by a utility
has been reconnected without the consent of the utility is prima facie evidence
that the person in possession or control of the meter, conduit or attachment at
the time of the reconnection has reconnected the meter, conduit or attachment
with intent to commit a theft offense.
   (C)   As used in this section:
      TAMPER. Means to interfere with, damage or bypass a utility meter,
conduit or attachment with the intent to impede the correct registration of a
meter or the proper functions of a conduit or attachment so as to reduce the
amount of utility service that is registered on the meter.
      UTILITY. Means any electric light company, gas company, natural gas
company, pipe- line company, water-works company or heating or cooling company,
as defined in R.C. § 4905.03(C), (D), (E), (F), (G), or (H), its lessees,
trustees or receivers, or any similar utility owned or operated by a political
subdivision.
(R.C. § 4933.18)
   (D)   Each electric light company, gas company, natural gas company,
pipeline company, waterworks company or heating or cooling company, as defined
by R.C. § 4905.03(C), (D), (E), (F), (G), or (H), or its lessees, trustees or
receivers, and each similar utility owned or operated by a political
subdivision, shall notify its customers, on an annual basis, that tampering
with or bypassing a meter constitutes a theft offense that could result in the
imposition of criminal sanctions.
(R.C. § 4933.19)
§ 131.33 MOTION PICTURE PIRACY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AUDIOVISUAL RECORDING FUNCTION. Means the capability of a device to
record or transmit a motion picture or any part of a motion picture by means of
any technology existing on, or developed after, March 9, 2004.
      FACILITY. Means a movie theater.
   (B)   No person, without the written consent of the owner or lessee of the
facility and of the licensor of the motion picture, shall knowingly operate an
audiovisual recording function of a device in a facility in which the motion
picture is being shown.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of motion
picture piracy, a misdemeanor of the first degree on the first offense and a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
   (D)   This section does not prohibit or restrict a lawfully authorized
investigative, law enforcement, protective, or intelligence gathering employee
or agent of the government of this state or a political subdivision of this
state, or of the federal government, when acting in an official capacity, from
operating an audiovisual recording function of a device in any facility in
which a motion picture is being shown.
   (E)   Division (B) of this section does not limit or affect the application
of any other prohibition in this code or the Ohio Revised Code. Any act that is
a violation of both division (B) of this section and another provision of this
code or the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, under the
other provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code, or under both this
section and the other provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 2913.07)
§ 131.34 RAILROAD VANDALISM; CRIMINAL TRESPASS; INTERFERENCE WITH OPERATION OF
TRAIN; GRADE CROSSING DEVICE VANDALISM.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any object
at, onto, or in the path of, any railroad rail, railroad track, locomotive,
engine, railroad car, or other vehicle of a railroad company while such vehicle
is on a railroad track.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall climb upon or into any
locomotive, engine, railroad car, or other vehicle of a railroad company when
it is on a railroad track.
   (C)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall disrupt, delay, or
prevent the operation of any train or other vehicle of a railroad company while
such vehicle is on a railroad track.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of railroad
vandalism. Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of criminal
trespass on a locomotive, engine, railroad car, or other railroad vehicle.
Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of interference with
the operation of a train. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
railroad vandalism; criminal trespass on a locomotive, engine, railroad car, or
other railroad vehicle; and interference with the operation of a train each is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation of division (A), (B), or
(C) of this section causes serious physical harm to property or creates a
substantial risk of physical harm to any person, causes physical harm to any
person, or causes serious physical harm to any person, the violation is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.10)
   (E)   No person shall knowingly deface, damage, obstruct, remove, or
otherwise impair the operation of any railroad grade crossing warning signal or
other protective device, including any gate, bell, light, crossbuck, stop sign,
yield sign, advance warning sign, or advance pavement marking.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of railroad
grade crossing device vandalism. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
railroad grade crossing device vandalism is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the violation of division (E) of this section causes serious physical harm
to property or creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person,
causes physical harm to any person, or causes serious physical harm to any
person, railroad grade crossing device vandalism is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.101)
§ 131.35 DESECRATION.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall purposely deface, damage,
pollute, or otherwise physically mistreat any of the following:
      (1)   Any public monument;
      (2)   Any historical or commemorative marker, or any structure, Indian
mound or earthwork, cemetery, thing, or site of great historical or
archaeological interest;
      (3)   A place of worship, its furnishings, or religious artifacts or
sacred texts within the place of worship or within the grounds upon which the
place of worship is located;
      (4)   A work of art or museum piece;
      (5)   Any other object of reverence or sacred devotion.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of desecration. A violation of
division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the second degree. A violation of division (A)(3) of this section is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   As used in this section, “cemetery” means any place of burial and
includes burial sites that contain American Indian burial objects placed with
or containing American Indian human remains.
(R.C. § 2927.11)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
   
132.01   Riot
   
132.02   Failure to disperse
   
132.03   Justifiable use of force to suppress riot
   
132.04   Disorderly conduct
   
132.05   Disturbing a lawful meeting
   
132.06   Misconduct at an emergency
   
132.07   Telecommunications harassment
   
132.08   Inducing panic
   
132.09   Making false alarms
   
132.10   Inciting to violence
   
132.11   Unlawful display of law enforcement emblem
   
132.12   Impersonating a peace officer
   
132.13   Safety of crowds attending live entertainment performances
   
132.14   Misconduct involving a public transportation system
   
132.15   Impeding public passage of an emergency service responder
Cross-reference:
   Personating an officer (fraud offense), see §
131.28
Statutory reference:
   Misuse of “Block Parent” or “McGruff House” symbol, see R.C. § 2917.46
§ 132.01 RIOT.
   (A)   No person shall participate with four or more others in a course of
disorderly conduct in violation of R.C. § 2917.11 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance:
      (1)   With purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of a
misdemeanor, other than disorderly conduct;
      (2)   With purpose to intimidate a public official or employee into
taking or refraining from official action, or with purpose to hinder, impede,
or obstruct a function of government;
      (3)   With purpose to hinder, impede, or obstruct the orderly process of
administration or instruction at an educational institution, or to interfere
with or disrupt lawful activities carried on at the institution.
   (B)   No person shall participate with four or more others with purpose to
do an act with unlawful force or violence, even though the act might otherwise
be lawful.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of riot, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 2917.03)
   (D)   For the purposes of prosecuting violations of this section, the
prosecution is not required to allege or prove that the offender expressly
agreed with four or more others to commit any act that constitutes a violation
this section prior to or while committing those acts.
(R.C. § 2917.031)
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated riot, felony provisions, see R.C. § 2917.02
§ 132.02 FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
   (A)   Where five or more persons are participating in a course of disorderly
conduct in violation of R.C. § 2917.11 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, and there are other persons in the vicinity whose presence creates
the likelihood of physical harm to persons or property or of serious public
inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm, a law enforcement officer or other public
official may order the participants and the other persons to disperse. No
person shall knowingly fail to obey the order.
   (B)   Nothing in this section requires persons to disperse who are peaceably
assembled for a lawful purpose.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to disperse.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3) of this section,
failure to disperse is a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Failure to disperse is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the
failure to obey the order described in division (A) of this section creates the
likelihood of physical harm to persons or is committed at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
(R.C. § 2917.04)
§ 132.03 JUSTIFIABLE USE OF FORCE TO SUPPRESS RIOT.
   A law enforcement officer or firefighter engaged in suppressing a riot or in
protecting persons or property during a riot:
   (A)   Is justified in using force, other than deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters;
   (B)   Is justified in using force, including deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters whose conduct is creating a substantial risk of
serious physical harm to persons.
(R.C. § 2917.05)
§ 132.04 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly cause inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm to
another, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Engaging in fighting, in threatening harm to persons or property,
or in violent or turbulent behavior;
      (2)   Making unreasonable noise or an offensively coarse utterance,
gesture, or display, or communicating unwarranted and grossly abusive language
to any person;
      (3)   Insulting, taunting, or challenging another, under circumstances in
which that conduct is likely to provoke a violent response;
      (4)   Hindering or preventing the movement of persons on a public street,
road, highway, or right-of-way, or to, from, within, or upon public or private
property, so as to interfere with the rights of others, and by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender;
      (5)   Creating a condition that is physically offensive to persons or
that presents a risk of physical harm to persons or property, by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender.
   (B)   No person while voluntarily intoxicated shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   In a public place or in the presence of two or more persons, engage
in conduct likely to be offensive or to cause inconvenience, annoyance, or
alarm to persons of ordinary sensibilities, which conduct the offender, if he
or she were not intoxicated, should know is likely to have such effect on
others;
      (2)   Engage in conduct or create a condition that presents a risk of
physical harm to himself, herself or another, or to the property of another.
   (C)   Violation of any statute or ordinance of which an element is operating
a motor vehicle, locomotive, watercraft, aircraft, or other vehicle while under
the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse is not a violation of division
(B) of this section.
   (D)   If a person appears to an ordinary observer to be intoxicated, it is
probable cause to believe that the person is voluntarily intoxicated for
purposes of division (B) of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disorderly conduct.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (E)(2) and (E)(3) of this
section, disorderly conduct is a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Disorderly conduct is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if any of
the following applies:
         (a)   The offender persists in disorderly conduct after reasonable
warning or request to desist.
         (b)   The offense is committed in the vicinity of a school or in a
school safety zone.
         (c)   The offense is committed in the presence of any law enforcement
officer, firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services
person, or other authorized person who is engaged in the person’s duties at the
scene of a fire, accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
         (d)   The offense is committed in the presence of any emergency
facility person who is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to three or more violations of division (B) of this section, R.C. § 2917.11(B),
or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation
of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SCHOOL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2925.01.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency medical
services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
(R.C. § 2917.11)
§ 132.05 DISTURBING A LAWFUL MEETING.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to prevent or disrupt a lawful meeting,
procession, or gathering, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Do any act which obstructs or interferes with the due conduct of
the meeting, procession, or gathering.
      (2)   Make any utterance, gesture, or display which outrages the
sensibilities of the group.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disturbing a lawful
meeting. Except as otherwise provided in this division, disturbing a lawful
meeting is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Disturbing a lawful meeting is a
misdemeanor of the first degree if either of the following applies:
      (1)   The violation is committed with the intent to disturb or disquiet
any assemblage of people met for religious worship at a tax-exempt place of
worship, regardless of whether the conduct is within the place at which the
assemblage is held or is on the property on which that place is located and
disturbs the order and solemnity of the assemblage.
      (2)   The violation is committed with the intent to prevent, disrupt, or
interfere with a virtual meeting or gathering of people for religious worship,
through use of a computer, computer system, telecommunications device, or other
electronic device or system, or in any other manner.
   (C)   As used in this section:
      COMPUTER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      COMPUTER SYSTEM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      VIRTUAL MEETING OR GATHERING. A meeting or gathering by interactive video
conference or teleconference, or by a combination thereof.
(R.C. § 2917.12)
§ 132.06 MISCONDUCT AT AN EMERGENCY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Hamper the lawful operations of any law enforcement officer,
firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services person, or
other authorized person engaged in the person’s duties at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind;
      (2)   Hamper the lawful activities of any emergency facility person who
is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility;
      (3)   Fail to obey the lawful order of any law enforcement officer
engaged in the law enforcement officer’s duties at the scene of or in
connection with a fire, accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit access or deny
information to any news media representative in the lawful exercise of the news
media representative’s duties.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misconduct at an emergency.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If violation of this section creates a risk
of physical harm to persons or property, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      EMERGENCY FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency medical
services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
(R.C. § 2917.13)
§ 132.07 TELECOMMUNICATIONS HARASSMENT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a
telecommunication, or knowingly permit a telecommunication to be made from a
telecommunications device under the person’s control, to another, if the caller
does any of the following:
      (1)   Makes the telecommunication with purpose to harass, intimidate, or
abuse any person at the premises to which the telecommunication is made,
whether or not actual communication takes place between the caller and a
recipient;
      (2)   Describes, suggests, requests, or proposes that the caller, the
recipient of the telecommunication, or any other person engage in sexual
activity, and the recipient or another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made has requested, in a previous telecommunication or in
the immediate telecommunication, that the caller not make a telecommunication
to the recipient or to the premises to which the telecommunication is made;
      (3)   During the telecommunication, violates R.C. § 2903.21 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (4)   Knowingly states to the recipient of the telecommunication that the
caller intends to cause damage to or destroy public or private property, and
the recipient, any member of the recipient’s family, or any other person who
resides at the premises to which the telecommunication is made owns, leases,
resides, or works in, will at the time of the destruction or damaging be near
or in, has the responsibility of protecting, or insures the property that will
be destroyed or damaged;
      (5)   Knowingly makes the telecommunication to the recipient of the
telecommunication, to another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made, or to those premises, and the recipient or another
person at those premises previously has told the caller not to make a
telecommunication to those premises or to any persons at those premises;
      (6)   Knowingly makes any comment, request, suggestion, or proposal to
the recipient of the telecommunication that is threatening, intimidating,
menacing, coercive, or obscene with the intent to abuse, threaten, or harass
the recipient;
      (7)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly interrupts the
telecommunication service of any person;
      (8)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly transmits to any
person, regardless of whether the telecommunication is heard in its entirety,
any file, document, or other communication that prevents that person from using
the person’s telephone service or electronic communication device;
      (9)   Knowingly makes any false statement concerning the death, injury,
illness, disfigurement, reputation, indecent conduct, or criminal conduct of
the recipient of the telecommunication or family or household member of the
recipient with purpose to abuse, threaten, intimidate, or harass the recipient;
      (10)   Knowingly incites another person through a telecommunication or
other means to harass or participate in the harassment of a person;
      (11)   Knowingly alarms the recipient by making a telecommunication
without a lawful purpose at an hour or hours known to be inconvenient to the
recipient and in an offensive or repetitive manner.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall make or cause to be made a telecommunication or
permit a telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under
the person’s control, with purpose to abuse, threaten, or harass another
person.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly post a text or audio statement or an
image on an internet web site or web page for the purpose of abusing,
threatening, or harassing another person.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of telecommunications
harassment.
      (2)   A violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(5), (A)(6), (A)
(7), (A)(8), (A)(9), (A)(10), or (A)(11) or (B) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree on a first offense and a felony on each
subsequent offense, which shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(3), a violation
of division (A)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree on a
first offense and a felony on each subsequent offense, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If a violation of division (A)(4) of this section
results in economic harm of $1,000 or more, telecommunications harassment is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   No cause of action may be asserted in any court of this municipality
against any provider of a telecommunications service, interactive computer
service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, or against any
officer, employee, or agent of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, for any
injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly arises out of the
provider’s, officer’s, employee’s, or agent’s provision of information,
facilities, or assistance in accordance with the terms of a court order that is
issued in relation to the investigation or prosecution of an alleged violation
of this section. A provider of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, or an
officer, employee, or agent of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, is
immune from any civil or criminal liability for injury, death, or loss to
person or property that allegedly arises out of the provider’s, officer’s,
employee’s, or agent’s provision of information, facilities, or assistance in
accordance with the terms of a court order that is issued in relation to the
investigation or prosecution of an alleged violation of this section.
   (E)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person solely because the
person provided access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control, including
having provided capabilities that are incidental to providing access or
connection to or from the electronic method of remotely transferring the
information, and that do not include the creation of the content of the
material that is the subject of the access or connection. In addition, any
person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control shall not be
liable for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the receipt or
transmission through its service of any information that the person believes
is, or will be sent, in violation of this section.
      (2)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not create an affirmative duty
for any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method
of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control to block
the receipt or transmission through its service of any information that it
believes is, or will be sent, in violation of this section except as otherwise
provided by law.
      (3)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of this section or who knowingly
advertises the availability of material of that nature.
      (4)   A provider or user of an interactive computer service, as defined
in 47 U.S.C. § 230, shall neither be treated as the publisher or speaker of any
information provided by another information content provider, as defined in 47
U.S.C. § 230, nor held civilly or criminally liable for the creation or
development of information provided by another information content provider, as
defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230. Nothing in this division shall be construed to
protect a person from liability to the extent that the person developed or
created any content in violation of this section.
   (F)   Divisions (A)(5) to (A)(11) and (B)(2) of this section do not apply to
a person who, while employed or contracted by a newspaper, magazine, press
association, news agency, news wire service, cable channel or cable operator,
or radio or television station, is gathering, processing, transmitting,
compiling, editing, or disseminating information for the general public within
the scope of the person’s employment in that capacity or the person’s
contractual authority in that capacity.
   (G)   As used in divisions (A) through (D) of this section:
      CABLE OPERATOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
      CALLER. Means the person described in division (A) of this section who
makes or causes to be made a telecommunication or who permits a
telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under that
person’s control.
      ECONOMIC HARM. Means all direct, incidental and consequential pecuniary
harm suffered by a victim as a result of the criminal conduct. The term
includes but is not limited to all of the following:
         (a)   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         (b)   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         (c)   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is
shut down as a result of the criminal conduct;
         (d)   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division
(A)(9) of this section is committed:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse of
the recipient;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the recipient, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the recipient;
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the recipient, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
recipient.
         (b)   The natural parent of any child of whom the recipient of the
telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division (A)(9) of this
section is committed is the other natural parent or is the putative other
natural parent.
      PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has lived with
the recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in
division (A)(9) of this section is committed in a common law marital
relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting with the recipient, or who otherwise
has cohabited with the recipient within five years prior to the date of the
alleged commission of the act in question.
      SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
      TELECOMMUNICATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   (H)   Nothing in this section prohibits a person from making a
telecommunication to a debtor that is in compliance with the “Fair Debt
Collection Practices Act”, 15 U.S.C. § 1692, as amended, or the “Telephone
Consumer Protection Act”, 47 U.S.C. § 227, as amended.
(R.C. § 2917.21)
§ 132.08 INDUCING PANIC.
   (A)   No person shall cause the evacuation of any public place, or otherwise
cause serious public inconvenience or alarm, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Initiating or circulating a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false.
      (2)   Threatening to commit any offense of violence.
      (3)   Committing any offense, with reckless disregard of the likelihood
that its commission will cause serious public inconvenience or alarm.
   (B)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to any person
conducting an authorized fire or emergency drill.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of inducing panic.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3), inducing panic is
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If a violation of this section results in physical harm to any
person, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law. If a violation of this section results in economic harm of $1,000 or more,
inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the
public place involved in a violation of division (A)(1) is a school or an
institution of higher education, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. If a violation of this section pertains to a
purported, threatened or actual use of a weapon of mass destruction, inducing
panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or this code may be prosecuted under this section, the
other section, or both sections.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      BIOLOGICAL AGENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2917.33.
      ECONOMIC HARM. Means any of the following:
         (a)   All direct, incidental and consequential pecuniary harm suffered
by a victim as a result of the criminal conduct. “Economic harm” as described
in this division includes but is not limited to all of the following:
            1.   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            2.   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            3.   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is
shut down as a result of the criminal conduct;
            4.   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
         (b)   All costs incurred by the state or any political subdivision as
a result of, or in making any response to, the criminal conduct that
constituted the violation of this section or R.C. § 2917.32, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, including but not limited to all
costs so incurred by any law enforcement officers, firefighters, rescue
personnel, or emergency medical services personnel of the state or the
political subdivision.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSONNEL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2133.21.
      INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A state university or college as defined in R.C. § 3345.12(A)
(1), community college, state community college, university branch, or
technical college;
         (b)   A private, nonprofit college, university or other post-secondary
institution located in this state that possesses a certificate of authorization
issued by the Chancellor of Higher Education pursuant to R.C. Chapter 1713;
         (c)   A post-secondary institution with a certificate of registration
issued by the State Board of Career Colleges and Schools pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 3332.
      SCHOOL. Means any school operated by a board of education or any school
for which the Director of Education and Workforce prescribes minimum standards
under R.C. § 3301.07, whether or not any instruction, extracurricular
activities, or training provided by the school is being conducted at the time a
violation of this section is committed.
      WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any weapon that is designed or intended to cause death or
serious physical harm through the release, dissemination, or impact of toxic or
poisonous chemicals, or other precursors;
         (b)   Any weapon involving a disease organism or biological agent;
         (c)   Any weapon that is designed to release radiation or
radioactivity at a level dangerous to human life;
         (d)   Any of the following, except to the extent that the item or
device in question is expressly excepted from the definition of “destructive
device” pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)(4) and regulations issued under that
section:
            1.   Any explosive, incendiary, or poison gas bomb, grenade, rocket
having a propellant charge of more than four ounces, missile having an
explosive or incendiary charge of more than one-quarter ounce, mine, or similar
device;
            2.   Any combination of parts either designed or intended for use
in converting any item or device into any item or device described in division
(d)1. of this definition and from which an item or device described in that
division may be readily assembled.
(R.C. § 2917.31)
§ 132.09 MAKING FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to cause public inconvenience or alarm.
      (2)   Knowingly cause a false alarm of fire or other emergency to be
transmitted to or within any organization, public or private, for dealing with
emergencies involving a risk of physical harm to persons or property.
      (3)   Report to any law enforcement agency an alleged offense or other
incident within its concern, knowing that the offense did not occur;
      (4)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to impede the operation of a critical
infrastructure facility.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any person conducting an authorized
fire or emergency drill.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making false alarms. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, making false alarms is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If a violation of this section results in economic harm of
$1,000 or more, making false alarms is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If a violation of this section pertains to a purported,
threatened, or actual use of a weapon of mass destruction, making false alarms
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or this code may be prosecuted under this section, the
other section, or both sections.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2911.21.
      ECONOMIC HARM and WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION. Have the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2917.31.
(R.C. § 2917.32)
§ 132.10 INCITING TO VIOLENCE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly engage in conduct designed to urge or incite
another to commit any offense of violence when either of the following apply:
      (1)   The conduct takes place under circumstances that create a clear and
present danger that any offense of violence will be committed.
      (2)   The conduct proximately results in the commission of any offense of
violence.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of inciting to violence. If
the offense of violence that the other person is being urged or incited to
commit is a misdemeanor, inciting to violence is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the offense of violence that the other person is being urged or
incited to commit is a felony, inciting to violence is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2917.01)
§ 132.11 UNLAWFUL DISPLAY OF LAW ENFORCEMENT EMBLEM.
   (A)   No person who is not entitled to do so shall knowingly display on a
motor vehicle the emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law
enforcement officers.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of the unlawful display of the
emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law enforcement
officers, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2913.441)
§ 132.12 IMPERSONATING A PEACE OFFICER.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Means an employee of the United States
who serves in a position the duties of which are primarily the investigation,
apprehension, or detention of individuals suspected or convicted of offenses
under the criminal laws of the United States.
      IMPERSONATE. Means to act the part of, assume the identity of, wear the
uniform or any part of the uniform of, or display the identification of a
particular person or of a member of a class of persons with purpose to make
another person believe that the actor is that particular person or is a member
of that class of persons.
      INVESTIGATOR OF THE BUREAU OF CRIMINAL IDENTIFICATION AND INVESTIGATION.
Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.11.
      PEACE OFFICER. A Sheriff, deputy sheriff, Marshal, deputy marshal, member
of the organized police department of a municipal corporation, or township
constable, who is employed by a political subdivision of this state; a member
of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under R.C. §
3735.31(D); a member of a police force employed by a regional transit authority
under R.C. § 306.35(Y); a state university law enforcement officer appointed
under R.C. § 3345.04; a veterans’ home police officer appointed under R.C. §
5907.02; a special police officer employed by a port authority under R.C. §
4582.04 or 4582.28; an officer, agent, or employee of the state or any of its
agencies, instrumentalities, or political subdivisions, upon whom, by statute,
a duty to conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain laws is imposed and
the authority to arrest violators is conferred, within limits of that statutory
duty and authority; or a state highway patrol trooper whose primary duties are
to preserve the peace, to protect life and property, and to enforce the laws,
ordinances, or rules of the state or any of its political subdivisions.
      PRIVATE POLICE OFFICER. Means any security guard, special police officer,
private detective, or other person who is privately employed in a police
capacity.
   (B)   No person shall impersonate a peace officer, private police officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation, or
federal law enforcement officer.
   (C)   No person, by impersonating a peace officer, private police officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation, or
federal law enforcement officer, shall arrest or detain any person, search any
person, or search the property of any person.
   (D)   No person, with purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of an
offense, shall impersonate a peace officer, private police officer, federal law
enforcement officer, an officer, agent or employee of the municipality or the
state, or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation.
   (E)   No person shall commit a felony while impersonating a peace officer,
private police officer, federal law enforcement officer, an officer, agent or
employee of the municipality or of the state, or investigator of the Bureau of
Criminal Identification and Investigation.
   (F)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B) of this
section that the impersonation of the peace officer, private police officer,
federal law enforcement officer, an officer, agent or employee of the
municipality or of the state, or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation was for a lawful purpose.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the purpose of a
violation of division (D) of this section is to commit or facilitate the
commission of a felony, a violation of division (D) is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. Whoever violates division (E) of this
section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.51)
Cross-reference:
   Personating an officer (fraud offense), see §
131.28
§ 132.13 SAFETY OF CROWDS ATTENDING LIVE ENTERTAINMENT PERFORMANCES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CONCERT. Means a musical performance of which the primary component is a
presentation by persons singing or playing musical instruments, that is
intended by its sponsors mainly, but not necessarily exclusively, for the
listening enjoyment of the audience, and that is held in a facility. The term
does not include any performance in which music is a part of the presentation
and the primary component of which is acting, dancing, a motion picture, a
demonstration of skills or talent other than singing or playing an instrument,
an athletic event, an exhibition or a speech.
      FACILITY. Means any structure that has a roof or partial roof and that
has walls that wholly surround the area on all sides, including but not limited
to a stadium, hall, arena, armory, auditorium, ballroom, exhibition hall,
convention center or music hall.
      LIVE ENTERTAINMENT PERFORMANCE. Means any live speech; any live musical
performance, including a concert; any live dramatic performance; any live
variety show; and any other live performance with respect to which the primary
intent of the audience can be construed to be viewing the performers. The term
does not include any form of entertainment with respect to which the person
purchasing a ticket routinely participates in amusements as well as views
performers.
      PERSON. Includes, in addition to an individual or entity specified in
R.C. § 1.59(C), any governmental entity.
      RESTRICTED ENTERTAINMENT AREA. Means any wholly or partially enclosed
area, whether indoors or outdoors, that has limited access through established
entrances or established turnstiles or similar devices.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall sell, offer to sell, or offer in return for a
donation, any ticket that is not numbered and that does not correspond to a
specific seat for admission to either of the following:
         (a)   A live entertainment performance that is not exempted under
division (D) of this section, that is held in a restricted entertainment area,
and for which more than 8,000 tickets are offered to the public;
         (b)   A concert that is not exempted under division (D) of this
section and for which more than 3,000 tickets are offered to the public.
      (2)   No person shall advertise any live entertainment performance as
described in division (B)(1)(a) of this section or any concert as described in
division (B)(1)(b) of this section, unless the advertisement contains the words
“Reserved Seats Only”.
   (C)   Unless exempted by division (D)(1) of this section, no person who owns
or operates any restricted entertainment area shall fail to open, maintain and
properly staff at least the number of entrances designated under division (E)
of this section for a minimum of 90 minutes prior to the scheduled start of any
live entertainment performance that is held in the restricted entertainment
area and for which more than 3,000 tickets are sold, offered for sale or
offered in return for a donation.
   (D)   (1)   A live entertainment performance, other than a concert, is
exempted from the provisions of divisions (B) and (C) of this section if both
of the following apply:
         (a)   The restricted entertainment area in which the performance is
held has at least eight entrances or, if both entrances and separate admission
turnstiles or similar devices are used, has at least eight turnstiles or
similar devices.
         (b)   The eight entrances or, if applicable, the eight turnstiles or
similar devices, are opened, maintained and properly staffed at least one hour
prior to the scheduled start of the performance.
      (2)   (a)   The officer responsible for public safety in the municipality
may, upon application of the sponsor of a concert covered by division (B) of
this section, exempt the concert from the provisions of that division if such
officer finds that the health, safety and welfare of the participants and
spectators would not be substantially affected by failure to comply with the
provisions of that division. In determining whether to grant an exemption, the
officer shall consider the following factors: the size and design of the
facility in which the concert is scheduled; the size, age and anticipated
conduct of the crowd expected to attend the concert; and the ability of the
sponsor to manage and control the expected crowd. If the sponsor of any concert
desires to obtain an exemption under this division, the sponsor shall apply to
the appropriate official on a form prescribed by that official. The official
shall issue an order that grants or denies the exemption within five days after
receipt of the application. The sponsor may appeal any order that denies an
exemption to the Court of Common Pleas of the county in which the facility is
located.
         (b)   If an official grants an exemption under division (D)(2)(a) of
this section, the official shall designate an on-duty law enforcement officer
to be present at the concert. The designated officer has authority to issue
orders to all security personnel at the concert to protect the health, safety
and welfare of the participants and spectators.
      (3)   Notwithstanding division (D)(2) of this section, in the case of a
concert held in a facility located on the campus of an educational institution
covered by R.C. § 3345.04, a state university law enforcement officer appointed
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3345.04 and 3345.21 shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Exercise the authority to grant exemptions provided by division
(D)(2)(a) of this section in lieu of an official designated in that division;
         (b)   If the officer grants an exemption under division (D)(3)(a) of
this section, designate an on-duty state university law enforcement officer to
be present at the concert. The designated officer has authority to issue orders
to all security personnel at the concert to protect the health, safety and
welfare of the participants and spectators.
   (E)   (1)   Unless a live entertainment performance is exempted by division
(D)(1) of this section, the officer responsible for public safety within the
municipality shall designate, for purposes of division (C) of this section, the
minimum number of entrances required to be opened, maintained and staffed at
each live entertainment performance so as to permit crowd control and reduce
congestion at the entrances. The designation shall be based on such factors as
the size and nature of the crowd expected to attend the live entertainment
performance, the length of time prior to the live entertainment performance
that crowds are expected to congregate at the entrances and the amount of
security provided at the restricted entertainment area.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (E)(1) of this section, a state university
law enforcement officer appointed pursuant to R.C. §§ 3345.04 and 3345.21 shall
designate the number of entrances required to be opened, maintained and staffed
in the case of a live entertainment performance that is held at a restricted
entertainment area located on the campus of an educational institution covered
by R.C. § 3345.04.
   (F)   No person shall enter into any contract for a live entertainment
performance that does not permit or require compliance with this section.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to a live entertainment performance
held in a restricted entertainment area if one admission ticket entitles the
holder to view or participate in three or more different games, rides,
activities or live entertainment performances occurring simultaneously at
different sites within the restricted entertainment area and if the initial
admittance entrance to the restricted entertainment area, for which the ticket
is required, is separate from the entrance to any specific live entertainment
performance and an additional ticket is not required for admission to the
particular live entertainment performance.
      (2)   This section does not apply to a symphony orchestra performance, a
ballet performance, horse races, dances or fairs.
   (H)   This section does not prohibit the Legislative Authority from imposing
additional requirements, not in conflict with the section, for the promotion or
holding of live entertainment performances.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (B), (C) or (F) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If any individual suffers physical harm to
the individual’s person as a result of a violation of this section, the
sentencing court shall consider this factor in favor of imposing a term of
imprisonment upon the offender.
(R.C. § 2917.40)
§ 132.14 MISCONDUCT INVOLVING A PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM.
   (A)   As used in this section, PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM means a county
transit system operated in accordance with R.C. §§ 306.01 through 306.13, a
regional transit authority operated in accordance with R.C. §§ 306.30 through
306.71, or a regional transit commission operated in accordance with R.C. §§
306.80 through 306.90.
   (B)   No person shall evade the payment of the known fares of a public
transportation system.
   (C)   No person shall alter any transfer, pass, ticket or token of a public
transportation system with the purpose of evading the payment of fares or of
defrauding the system.
   (D)   No person shall do any of the following while in any facility or on
any vehicle of a public transportation system:
      (1)   Play sound equipment without the proper use of a private earphone;
      (2)   Smoke, eat or drink in any area where the activity is clearly
marked as being prohibited; or
      (3)   Expectorate upon a person, facility or vehicle.
   (E)   No person shall write, deface, draw or otherwise mark on any facility
or vehicle of a public transportation system.
   (F)   No person shall fail to comply with a lawful order of a public
transportation system police officer, and no person shall resist, obstruct or
abuse a public transportation police officer in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
   (G)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of
misconduct involving a public transportation system.
      (1)   A violation of division (B), (C), or (F) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   A violation of division (D) of this section is a minor misdemeanor
on a first offense. If a person previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of any division of this section or of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any division of this section, a
violation of division (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (E) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 75% of each fine paid to
satisfy a sentence imposed for a violation of any of the provisions of this
section shall be deposited into the treasury of the County and 25% shall be
deposited with the county transit board, regional transit authority or regional
transit commission that operates the public transportation system involved in
the violation, unless the Board of County Commissioners operates the public
transportation system, in which case 100% of each fine shall be deposited into
the treasury of the County.
(R.C. § 2917.41)
§ 132.15 IMPEDING PUBLIC PASSAGE OF AN EMERGENCY SERVICE RESPONDER.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall recklessly obstruct any
highway, street, sidewalk, or any other public passage in such a manner as to
render the highway, street, sidewalk, or passage impassable without
unreasonable inconvenience or hazard if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The obstruction prevents an emergency vehicle from accessing a
highway or street, prevents an emergency service responder from responding to
an emergency, or prevents an emergency vehicle or an emergency service
responder from having access to an exit from an emergency.
      (2)   Upon receipt of a request or order from an emergency service
responder to remove or cease the obstruction, the person refuses to remove or
cease the obstruction.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not limit or affect the application
of R.C. § 2921.31 or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code. Any conduct
that is a violation of division (A) of this section and that also is a
violation of R.C. § 2921.31 or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code may
be prosecuted under this section, the other section of the Ohio Revised Code,
or both sections.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawfully impeding public
passage of an emergency service responder, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, EMERGENCY SERVICE RESPONDER has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 2903.13.
(R.C. § 2917.14)
CHAPTER 133: SEX OFFENSES
Section
   
133.01   Definitions
   
133.02   Unlawful sexual conduct with a minor
   
133.03   Sexual imposition
   
133.04   Public indecency
   
133.05   Voyeurism
   
133.06   Polygraph examinations for victims: restrictions on use
   
133.07   Procuring; engagement in sexual activity for hire
   
133.08   Soliciting; loitering to engage in
   
133.09   Prostitution
   
133.10   Disseminating matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.11   Displaying matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.12   Deception to obtain matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.13   Rules of evidence
   
133.14   Declaratory judgment
   
133.15   Injunction; abatement of nuisance
   
133.16   Unlawful operation of viewing booths depicting sexual conduct
   
133.17   Juveniles on the premises of adult entertainment establishments
prohibited
   
133.18   Sexually oriented businesses; illegal operation and activity
   
133.19   Unlawful advertising of massage
   
133.20   Nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images
 
   
133.99   Sentencing for sexually oriented offenses; sexual predators;
registration
Statutory reference:
   Assistance to victims of sexual assault, see R.C. §§ 2907.28 et seq.
   Child victim, disposition of, see R.C. § 2945.481
   Suppression of information at trial, see R.C. § 2907.11
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   HARMFUL TO JUVENILES. That quality of any material or performance describing
or representing nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement, or sado-masochistic
abuse in any form to which all of the following apply:
      (1)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, appeals to
the prurient interest of juveniles in sex.
      (2)   The material or performance is patently offensive to prevailing
standards in the adult community as a whole with respect to what is suitable
for juveniles.
      (3)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, lacks
serious literary, artistic, political, and scientific value for juveniles.
   JUVENILE. Any unmarried person under 18 years of age.
   MATERIAL. Any book, magazine, newspaper, pamphlet, poster, print, picture,
figure, image, description, motion picture film, video cassette, laser disc,
phonograph record, cassette tape, compact disc, or other tangible thing capable
of arousing interest through sight, sound, or touch and includes an image or
text appearing on a computer monitor, television screen, liquid crystal
display, or similar display device or an image or text recorded on a computer
hard disk, computer floppy disk, compact disk, magnetic tape, or similar data
storage device.
   MENTAL HEALTH CLIENT OR PATIENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.51.
   MENTAL HEALTH PROFESSIONAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.115.
   MINOR. A person under the age of 18.
   NUDITY. The showing, representation, or depiction of human male or female
genitals, pubic area, or buttocks with less than a full, opaque covering, or of
a female breast with less than a full, opaque covering of any portion thereof
below the top of the nipple, or of covered male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state.
   OBSCENE. When considered as a whole, and judged with reference to ordinary
adults or, if it is designed for sexual deviates or other specially susceptible
group, judged with reference to that group, any material or performance is
“obscene” if any of the following apply:
      (1)   Its dominant appeal is to prurient interest.
      (2)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
sexual activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, or nudity in a way that tends
to represent human beings as mere objects of sexual appetite.
      (3)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
bestiality or extreme or bizarre violence, cruelty, or brutality.
      (4)   Its dominant tendency is to appeal to scatological interest by
displaying or depicting human bodily functions of elimination in a way that
inspires disgust or revulsion in persons with ordinary sensibilities, without
serving any genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral, or artistic
purpose.
      (5)   It contains a series of displays or descriptions of sexual
activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, nudity, bestiality, extreme or
bizarre violence, cruelty, or brutality, or human bodily functions of
elimination, the cumulative effect of which is a dominant tendency to appeal to
prurient or scatological interest, when the appeal to such an interest is
primarily for its own sake or for commercial exploitation, rather than
primarily for a genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral, or
artistic purpose.
   PERFORMANCE. Any motion picture, preview, trailer, play, show, skit, dance,
or other exhibition performed before an audience.
   PLACE WHERE A PERSON HAS A REASONABLE EXPECTATION OF PRIVACY. A place where
a reasonable person would believe that the person could fully disrobe in
private.
   PRIVATE AREA. The genitals, pubic area, buttocks, or female breast below the
top of the areola, where nude or covered by an undergarment.
   PROSTITUTE. A male or female who promiscuously engages in sexual activity
for hire, regardless of whether the hire is paid to the prostitute or to
another.
   SADO-MASOCHISTIC ABUSE. Flagellation or torture by or upon a person or the
condition of being fettered, bound, or otherwise physically restrained.
   SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Sexual conduct or sexual contact, or both.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT. Vaginal intercourse between a male and female; anal
intercourse, fellatio, and cunnilingus between persons regardless of sex; and,
without privilege to do so, the insertion, however slight, of any part of the
body or any instrument, apparatus, or other object into the vaginal or anal
opening of another. Penetration, however slight, is sufficient to complete
vaginal or anal intercourse.
   SEXUAL CONTACT. Any touching of an erogenous zone of another, including
without limitation the thigh, genitals, buttock, pubic region, or, if the
person is a female, a breast, for the purpose of sexually arousing or
gratifying either person.
   SEXUAL EXCITEMENT. The condition of human male or female genitals when in a
state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   SPOUSE. A person married to an offender at the time of an alleged offense,
except that such person shall not be considered the spouse when any of the
following apply:
      (1)   When the parties have entered into a written separation agreement
pursuant to R.C. § 3103.06.
      (2)   When an action is pending between the parties for annulment,
divorce, dissolution of marriage, or legal separation.
      (3)   In the case of an action for legal separation, after the effective
date of the judgment for legal separation.
(R.C. § 2907.01)
§ 133.02 UNLAWFUL SEXUAL CONDUCT WITH A MINOR.
   (A)   No person who is 18 years of age or older shall engage in sexual
conduct with another who is not the spouse of the offender, when the offender
knows the other person is 13 years of age or older but less than 16 years of
age, or the offender is reckless in that regard.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful sexual conduct
with a minor.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2), unlawful sexual
conduct with a minor is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if
the offender is less than four years older than the other person, unlawful
sexual conduct with a minor is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of R.C. § 2907.02, 2907.03 or 2907.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, or a violation of former R.C. § 2907.12, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, unlawful sexual conduct with a
minor is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.04)
§ 133.03 SEXUAL IMPOSITION.
   (A)   No person shall have sexual contact with another, not the spouse of
the offender; cause another, not the spouse of the offender, to have sexual
contact with the offender; or cause two or more other persons to have sexual
contact when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The offender knows that the sexual contact is offensive to the
other person, or one of the other persons, or is reckless in that regard.
      (2)   The offender knows that the other person’s, or one of the other
person’s ability to appraise the nature of or control the offender’s or
touching person’s conduct is substantially impaired.
      (3)   The offender knows that the other person, or one of the other
persons, submits because of being unaware of the sexual contact.
      (4)   The other person, or one of the other persons, is 13 years of age
or older but less than 16 years of age, whether or not the offender knows the
age of the person, and the offender is at least 18 years of age and four or
more years older than the other person.
      (5)   The offender is a mental health professional, the other person or
one of the other persons is a mental health client or patient of the offender,
and the offender induces the other person who is the client or patient to
submit by falsely representing to the other person who is the client or patient
that the sexual contact is necessary for mental health treatment purposes.
   (B)   No person shall be convicted of a violation of this section solely
upon the victim’s testimony unsupported by other evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of sexual imposition, a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section, R.C. § 2907.02, 2907.03,
2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, former R.C. § 2907.12, or a substantially equivalent
state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, R.C. § 2907.02,
2907.03, 2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, former R.C. § 2907.12, or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any combination of those
sections, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree and,
notwithstanding the range of jail terms prescribed in R.C. § 2929.24, the court
may impose on the offender a definite jail term of not more than one year.
(R.C. § 2907.06)
Statutory reference:
   Gross sexual imposition, felony, see R.C. § 2907.05
   Notice to licensing board or agency upon indictment, conviction or guilty
plea of mental health professional, see R.C. §§ 2907.17 and 2907.18
§ 133.04 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following, under
circumstances in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and
affront others who are in the person’s physical proximity and who are not
members of the person’s household:
      (1)   Expose the persons’s private parts.
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct or masturbation.
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following, under circumstances
in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and affront another
person who is in the person’s physical proximity, who is a minor, and who is
not the spouse of the offender:
      (1)   Engage in masturbation.
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct.
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
      (4)   Expose the person’s private parts with the purpose of personal
sexual arousal or gratification or to lure the minor into sexual activity.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public indecency and
shall be punished as provided in divisions (C)(2), (C)(3), (C)(4), and (C)(5)
of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(2), a violation
of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the third degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations
of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by the
offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more
violations of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(3), a violation
of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the second degree or, if any person who was likely to view
and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or a substantially equivalent
state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if any person who was
likely to view and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(4), a violation
of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(5), a violation
of division (B)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of
this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (B)(4) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   If either of the following applies, the court may determine at
the time of sentencing whether to classify the offender as a tier I sex
offender/child-victim offender for a violation of division (B)(4) of this
section:
         (a)   The offender is less than ten years older than the other person.
         (b)   The offender is ten or more years older than the other person
and the offender has not previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any
violation of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance.
      (2)   If the offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (B)(4) of this section, is ten or more years older than the other
person, and previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation
of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the court shall issue an order at the time of sentencing that
classifies the offender as a tier I sex offender/child-victim offender subject
to registration under R.C. §§ 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05, and 2950.06.
(R.C. § 2907.09)
   (E)   A mother is entitled to breast-feed her baby in any location of a
place of public accommodation, as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, wherein the mother
otherwise is permitted.
(R.C. § 3781.55)
Statutory reference:
   Bail considerations for persons charged, see R.C. § 2907.41
§ 133.05 VOYEURISM.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another, to spy or eavesdrop upon another.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly commit trespass or otherwise secretly or
surreptitiously videotape, film, photograph, broadcast, stream, or otherwise
record another person, in a place where a person has a reasonable expectation
of privacy, for the purpose of viewing the private areas of that person.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly commit trespass or otherwise secretly or
surreptitiously videotape, film, photograph, broadcast, stream, or otherwise
record a minor, in a place where a person has a reasonable expectation of
privacy, for the purpose of viewing the private areas of the minor.
   (D)   No person shall secretly or surreptitiously videotape, film,
photograph, or otherwise record another person above, under, or through the
clothing being worn by that other person for the purpose of viewing the body
of, or the undergarments worn by, that other person.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of voyeurism.
      (1)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (4)   A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.08)
§ 133.06 POLYGRAPH EXAMINATIONS FOR VICTIMS: RESTRICTIONS ON USE.
   (A)   (1)   A peace officer, prosecutor, other public official, defendant,
defendant’s attorney, alleged juvenile offender, or alleged juvenile offender’s
attorney shall not ask or require a victim of an alleged sex offense to submit
to a polygraph examination as a condition for proceeding with the investigation
or prosecution of the alleged sex offense.
      (2)   The refusal of the victim of an alleged sex offense to submit to a
polygraph examination shall not prevent the investigation of the alleged sex
offense, the filing of criminal charges with respect to the alleged sex
offense, or the prosecution of the alleged perpetrator of the alleged sex
offense.
   (B)   As used in this section:
      ALLEGED JUVENILE OFFENDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2930.01.
      PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.51.
      POLYGRAPH EXAMINATION. Means any mechanical or electrical instrument or
device of any type used or allegedly used to examine, test, or question an
individual for the purpose of determining the individual’s truthfulness.
      PROSECUTION. Means the prosecution of criminal charges in a criminal
prosecution or the prosecution of a delinquent child complaint in a delinquency
proceeding.
      PROSECUTOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
      PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 117.01.
      SEX OFFENSE. Means a violation of any provision of §§ 133.02 to 133.05 or
R.C. §§ 2907.02 to 2907.09.
(R.C. § 2907.10)
§ 133.07 PROCURING; ENGAGEMENT IN SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE.
   (A)   Procuring.
      (1)   No person, knowingly and for gain, shall do either of the
following:
         (a)   Entice or solicit another to patronize a prostitute or brothel;
         (b)   Procure a prostitute for another to patronize, or take or direct
another at the other’s request to any place for the purpose of patronizing a
prostitute.
      (2)   No person, having authority or responsibility over the use of
premises, shall knowingly permit the premises to be used for the purpose of
engaging in sexual activity for hire.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(1)(b) of this section is
guilty of procuring. Except as otherwise provided in this division, procuring
is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the prostitute who is procured,
patronized, or otherwise involved in a violation of division (A)(1)(b) of this
section is under 18 years of age at the time of the violation, regardless of
whether the offender who violates division (A)(1)(b) of this section knows the
prostitute’s age, or if a prostitute who engages in sexual activity for hire in
premises used in violation of division (A)(2) of this section is under 18 years
of age at the time of the violation, regardless of whether the offender who
violates division (A)(2) of this section knows the prostitute’s age, procuring
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.23)
   (B)   Engagement in sexual activity for hire.
      (1)   As used in this division (B):
         PERSON WITH A DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITY. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2905.32.
         SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE. An implicit or explicit agreement to provide
sexual activity in exchange for anything of value paid to the person engaging
in such sexual activity, to any person trafficking that person, or to any
person associated with either such person.
      (2)   No person shall recklessly induce, entice, or procure another to
engage in sexual activity for hire in exchange for the person giving anything
of value to the other person.
      (3)   No person shall recklessly induce, entice, or procure another to
engage in sexual activity for hire in exchange for the person giving anything
of value to the other person if the other person is a person with a
developmental disability and the offender knows or has reasonable cause to
believe that the other person is a person with a developmental disability.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is guilty of
engaging in prostitution, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Whoever violates
division (B)(3) of this section is guilty of engaging in prostitution with a
person with a developmental disability, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. In sentencing an offender under this division for a
violation of division (B)(2) of this section, the court shall require the
offender to attend an education or treatment program aimed at preventing
persons from inducing, enticing, or procuring another to engage in sexual
activity for hire in exchange for the person giving anything of value to the
other person. Notwithstanding the fine specified in R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a) for
a misdemeanor of the first degree, in sentencing an offender under this
division for a violation of division (B)(2) of this section, the court may
impose upon the offender a fine of not more than $1,500.
(R.C. § 2907.231)
§ 133.08 SOLICITING; LOITERING TO ENGAGE IN.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly solicit another to engage in sexual activity
for hire in exchange for the person receiving anything of value from the other
person.
   (B)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in conduct in violation of division (A) of this section.
   (C)   As used in division (A) of this section, SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE
means an implicit or explicit agreement to provide sexual activity in exchange
for anything of value paid to the person engaging in such sexual activity, to
any person trafficking that person, or to any person associated with either
such person.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
soliciting. Soliciting is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of engaging
in solicitation after a positive HIV test, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.24)
   (E)   No person, with purpose to solicit another to engage in sexual
activity for hire and while in or near a public place, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Beckon to, stop or attempt to stop another;
      (2)   Engage or attempt to engage another in conversation;
      (3)   Stop or attempt to stop the operator of a vehicle or approach a
stationary vehicle;
      (4)   If the offender is the operator of or a passenger in a vehicle,
stop, attempt to stop, beckon to, attempt to beckon to, or entice another to
approach or enter the vehicle of which the offender is the operator or in which
the offender is the passenger;
      (5)   Interfere with the free passage of another.
   (F)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in conduct in violation of division (E) of this section.
   (G)   As used in division (E) of this section:
      PUBLIC PLACE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A street, road, highway, thoroughfare, bikeway, walkway,
sidewalk, bridge, alley, alleyway, plaza, park, driveway, parking lot or
transportation facility.
         (b)   A doorway or entrance way to a building that fronts on a place
described in division (a) of this definition.
         (c)   A place not described in division (a) or (b) of this definition
that is open to the public.
      VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   (H)   (1)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of
loitering to engage in solicitation, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of
loitering to engage in solicitation after a positive HIV test, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.241)
Statutory reference:
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.09 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   No person shall engage in sexual activity for hire.
   (B)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in sexual activity for hire.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
prostitution, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of engaging
in prostitution after a positive HIV test, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.25)
Statutory reference:
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.10 DISSEMINATING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person, with knowledge of its character or content, shall
recklessly do any of following:
      (1)   Directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit,
rent, or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles any material or performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles;
      (2)   Directly offer or agree to sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent, or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law
enforcement officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement
officers posing as juveniles any material or performance that is obscene or
harmful to juveniles;
      (3)   While in the physical proximity of the juvenile or law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, allow any juvenile or law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile to review or peruse any material or view any live
performance that is harmful to juveniles.
   (B)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section
that involves material or a performance that is harmful to juveniles but not
obscene:
      (1)   The defendant is the parent, guardian, or spouse of the juvenile
involved.
      (2)   The juvenile involved, at the time of the conduct in question, was
accompanied by his or her parent or guardian who, with knowledge of its
character, consented to the material or performance being furnished or
presented to the juvenile.
      (3)   The juvenile exhibited to the defendant or his or her agent or
employee a draft card, driver’s license, birth record, marriage license, or
other official or apparently official document purporting to show that the
juvenile was 18 years of age or over or married, and the person to whom the
document was exhibited did not otherwise have reasonable cause to believe that
the juvenile was under the age of 18 and unmarried.
   (C)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section,
involving material or a performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles,
that the material or performance was furnished or presented for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, governmental, judicial, or other proper
purpose, by a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher,
librarian, clergy, prosecutor, judge, or other proper person.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, mistake of
age is not a defense to a charge under this section.
   (D)   (1)   A person directly sells, delivers, furnishes, disseminates,
provides, exhibits, rents, or presents or directly offers or agrees to sell,
deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent, or present material or a
performance to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section by means of an electronic method of
remotely transmitting information if the person knows or has reason to believe
that the person receiving the information is a juvenile or the group of persons
receiving the information are juveniles.
      (2)   A person remotely transmitting information by means of a method of
mass distribution does not directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent, or present or directly offer or agree to sell, deliver,
furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent, or present the material or
performance in question to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section if either of the following applies:
         (a)   The person has inadequate information to know or have reason to
believe that a particular recipient of the information or offer is a juvenile.
         (b)   The method of mass distribution does not provide the person the
ability to prevent a particular recipient from receiving the information.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disseminating matter
harmful to juveniles. If the material or performance involved is harmful to
juveniles except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the material or performance
involved is obscene, violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.31)
   (F)   Presumptions, notice and defense.
      (1)   An owner or manager, or agent or employee of an owner or manager,
of a bookstore, newsstand, theater, or other commercial establishment engaged
in selling material or exhibiting performances, who, in the course of business
does any of the acts prohibited by this section is presumed to have knowledge
of the character of the material or performance involved if the owner, manager,
or agent or employee of the owner or manager has actual notice of the nature of
such material or performance, whether or not the owner, manager, or agent or
employee of the owner or manager has precise knowledge of its contents.
      (2)   Without limitation on the manner in which such notice may be given,
actual notice of the character of material or a performance may be given in
writing by the chief legal officer of the municipality. Such notice, regardless
of the manner in which it is given, shall identify the sender, identify the
material or performance involved, state whether it is obscene or harmful to
juveniles, and bear the date of such notice.
      (3)   This §
133.10 does not apply to a motion picture operator or projectionist acting
within the scope of employment as an employee of the owner or manager of the
theater or other place for the showing of motion pictures to the general
public, and having no managerial responsibility or financial interest in the
operator’s or projectionist’s place of employment, other than wages.
      (4)   (a)   The provisions of §§
133.10,
133.11 and
133.12(A) do not apply to a person solely because the person provided access or
connection to or from an electronic method of remotely transferring information
not under that person’s control, including having provided capabilities that
are incidental to providing access or connection to or from the electronic
method of remotely transferring the information, and that do not include the
creation of the content of the material that is the subject of the access or
connection.
         (b)   Division (F)(4)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who conspires with an entity actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of §
133.10,
133.11 and
133.12 or who knowingly advertises the availability of material of that nature.
         (c)   Division (F)(4)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who provides access or connection to an electronic method of remotely
transferring information that is engaged in the violation of §
133.10,
133.11 and
133.12 and that contain content that person has selected and introduced into
the electronic method of remotely transferring information or content over
which that person exercises editorial control.
      (5)   An employer is not guilty of a violation of §
133.10,
133.11 and
133.12 based on the actions of an employee or agent of the employer unless the
employee’s or agent’s conduct is within the scope of the employee’s or agent’s
employment or agency, and the employer does either of the following:
         (a)   With knowledge of the employee’s or agent’s conduct, the
employer authorizes or ratifies the conduct.
         (b)   The employer recklessly disregards the employee’s or agent’s
conduct.
      (6)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under §
133.10 or
133.11 as the section applies to an image transmitted through the internet or
other electronic method of remotely transmitting information that the person
charged with violating the section has taken, in good faith, reasonable,
effective, and appropriate actions under the circumstances to restrict or
prevent access by juveniles to material that is harmful to juveniles, including
any method that is feasible under available technology.
(R.C. § 2907.35)
§ 133.11 DISPLAYING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person who has custody, control, or supervision of a commercial
establishment, with knowledge of the character or content of the material
involved, shall display at the establishment any material that is harmful to
juveniles and that is open to view by juveniles as part of the invited general
public.
   (B)   It is not a violation of division (A) of this section if the material
in question is displayed by placing it behind “blinder racks” or similar
devices that cover at least the lower two-thirds of the material, if the
material in question is wrapped or placed behind the counter, or if the
material in question otherwise is covered or located so that the portion that
is harmful to juveniles is not open to the view of juveniles.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of displaying matter harmful
to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day during which the
offender is in violation of this section constitutes a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2907.311)
Cross-reference:
   Presumptions, notice and defense, see §
133.10(F)
§ 133.12 DECEPTION TO OBTAIN MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of enabling a juvenile to obtain any
material or gain admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles,
shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is the parent, guardian, or spouse
of the juvenile.
      (2)   Furnish the juvenile with any identification or document purporting
to show that the juvenile is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (B)   No juvenile, for the purpose of obtaining any material or gaining
admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles, shall do either of
the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is 18 years of age or over or
married.
      (2)   Exhibit any identification or document purporting to show that he
or she is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of deception to obtain matter
harmful to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the second degree. A juvenile who
violates division (B) of this section shall be adjudged an unruly child, with
the disposition of the case as may be appropriate under R.C. Chapter 2151.
(R.C. § 2907.33)
Cross-reference:
   Presumptions, notice and defense, see §
133.10(F)
Statutory reference:
   Juvenile Court, see R.C. Chapter 2151
§ 133.13 RULES OF EVIDENCE.
   (A)   In any case in which it is necessary to prove that a place is a
brothel, evidence as to the reputation of such place and as to the reputation
of the persons who inhabit or frequent it is admissible on the question of
whether such place is or is not a brothel.
   (B)   In any case in which it is necessary to prove that a person is a
prostitute, evidence as to the reputation of such person is admissible on the
question of whether such person is or is not a prostitute.
   (C)   In any prosecution for a violation of §§
133.07 through
133.09, proof of a prior conviction of the accused of any such offense or
substantially equivalent offense is admissible in support of the charge.
   (D)   The prohibition contained in R.C. § 2317.02(D) against testimony by a
husband or wife concerning communications between them does not apply, and the
accused’s spouse may testify concerning any such communication in any of the
following cases:
      (1)   When the husband or wife is charged with a violation of §
133.07 and the spouse testifying was the prostitute involved in the offense or
the person who used the offender’s premises to engage in sexual activity for
hire;
      (2)   When the husband or wife is charged with a violation of §
133.08(A) or §
133.09.
(R.C. § 2907.26)
§ 133.14 DECLARATORY JUDGMENT.
   (A)   Without limitation on the persons otherwise entitled to bring an
action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2721, involving the
same issue, the following persons have standing to bring a declaratory judgment
action to determine whether particular materials or performances are obscene or
harmful to juveniles:
      (1)   The chief legal officer of the municipality if and when there is
reasonable cause to believe that R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, is being or is about to be
violated;
      (2)   Any person who, pursuant to R.C. § 2907.35(B) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, has received notice in writing from the chief
legal officer stating that particular materials or performances are obscene or
harmful to juveniles.
   (B)   Any party to an action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to division
(A) of this section is entitled, upon the party’s request, to trial on the
merits within five days after joinder of the issues, and the court shall render
judgment within five days after trial is concluded.
   (C)   An action for a declaratory judgement pursuant to division (A) of this
section shall not be brought during the pendency of any civil action or
criminal prosecution when the character of the particular materials or
performances involved is at issue in the pending case, and either of the
following applies:
      (1)   Either of the parties to the action for a declaratory judgment is a
party to the pending case;
      (2)   A judgment in the pending case will necessarily constitute res
judicata as to the character of the materials or performances involved.
   (D)   A civil action or criminal prosecution in which the character of
particular materials or performances is at issue, brought during the pendency
of an action for a declaratory judgment involving the same issue, shall be
stayed during the pendency of the action for a declaratory judgment.
   (E)   The fact that a violation of R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, occurs prior to a judicial
determination of the character of the material or performance involved in the
violation does not relieve the offender of criminal liability for the
violation, even though prosecution may be stayed pending the judicial
determination.
(R.C. § 2907.36)
§ 133.15 INJUNCTION; ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Where it appears that R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, is being or is about to be
violated, the chief legal officer of the municipality may bring an action to
enjoin the violation. The defendant, upon his or her request, is entitled to
trial on the merits within five days after the joinder of the issues, and the
court shall render judgment within five days after the trial is concluded.
   (B)   Premises used or occupied for repeated violations of R.C. § 2907.31 or
R.C. § 2907.32, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2907.37)
Statutory reference:
   Disseminating matter harmful to juveniles, felony, see R.C. § 2907.31
   Pandering obscenity, felony, see R.C. § 2907.32
§ 133.16 UNLAWFUL OPERATION OF VIEWING BOOTHS DEPICTING SEXUAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Means an entity that is open to the public and
to which either of the following applies:
         (a)   It has a substantial or significant portion of its stock in
trade of the sale, rental, or viewing of visual materials or performances
depicting sexual conduct.
         (b)   It has as a principal business purpose the sale, rental, or
viewing of visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct.
      VISUAL MATERIALS OR PERFORMANCES. Means films, videos, CD-ROM discs,
streaming video, or other motion pictures.
   (B)   No person who has custody, control, or supervision of a commercial
establishment, with knowledge of the character of the visual material or
performance involved, shall knowingly permit the use of, or offer the use of,
viewing booths, stalls, or partitioned portions of a room located in the
commercial establishment for the purpose of viewing visual materials or
performances depicting sexual conduct unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The inside of each booth, stall, or partitioned room is visible
from, and at least one side of each booth, stall, or partitioned room is open
to, a continuous and contiguous main aisle or hallway that is open to the
public areas of the commercial establishment and is not obscured by any
curtain, door, or other covering or enclosure.
      (2)   No booth, stall, or partitioned room is designed, constructed,
pandered, or allowed to be used for the purpose of encouraging or facilitating
nudity or sexual activity on the part of or between patrons or members of the
public, and no booth, stall, or partitioned room has any aperture, hole, or
opening for the purpose of encouraging or facilitating nudity or sexual
activity.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that
either of the following applies to the involved visual materials or
performances:
      (1)   The visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct are
disseminated or presented for a bona fide medical, scientific, educational,
religious, governmental, judicial, or other proper purpose and by or to a
physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher, person pursuing bona
fide studies or research, librarian, member of the clergy, prosecutor, judge,
or other person having a proper interest in the visual materials or
performances.
      (2)   The visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct,
taken as a whole, would be found by a reasonable person to have serious
literary, artistic, political, or scientific value or are presented or
disseminated in good faith for a serious literary, artistic, political, or
scientific purpose and are not pandered for their prurient appeal.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of permitting unlawful
operation of viewing booths depicting sexual conduct, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 2907.38)
§ 133.17 JUVENILES ON THE PREMISES OF ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ADULT ARCADE. Means any place to which the public is permitted or invited
in which coin-operated, slug-operated, or electronically, electrically, or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other
image-producing devices are regularly maintained to show images to five or
fewer persons per machine at any one time, and in which the images so displayed
are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon matter exhibiting or
describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE.
         (a)   Means a commercial establishment that, for any form of
consideration, has as a significant or substantial portion of its stock-in-
trade in, derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues from,
devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior business or
advertising to, or maintains a substantial section of its sales or display
space for the sale or rental of any of the following:
            1.   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, slides, or
other visual representations, that are characterized by their emphasis upon the
exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas;
            2.   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia that are designed for
use or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of self or others.
         (b)   Includes a commercial establishment as defined in R.C. §
2907.38. An establishment may have other principal business purposes that do
not involve the offering for sale, rental, or viewing of materials exhibiting
or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas and
still be categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty store, or adult video
store. The existence of other principal business purposes does not exempt an
establishment from being categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, or adult video store so long as one of its principal business purposes
is offering for sale or rental, for some form of consideration, such materials
that exhibit or describe specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
      ADULT CABARET. Means a nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant, bottle
club, or similar commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages
are served, that regularly features any of the following:
         (a)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity;
         (b)   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities;
         (c)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions that are distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT. Means the sale, rental, or exhibition, for any form
of consideration, of books, films, video cassettes, magazines, periodicals, or
live performances that are characterized by an emphasis on the exposure or
display of specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activity.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT. Means an adult arcade, adult
bookstore, adult novelty store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motion
picture theater, adult theater, nude or seminude model studio, or sexual
encounter establishment. An establishment in which a medical practitioner,
psychologist, psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the
state engages in medically approved and recognized therapy, including but not
limited to massage therapy, as regulated pursuant to R.C. § 4731.15, is not an
“adult entertainment establishment”.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. Means a commercial establishment where
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar photographic
reproductions that are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon
the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas are regularly shown for any form of consideration.
      ADULT THEATER. Means a theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar
commercial establishment that, for any form of consideration, regularly
features persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity or live
performances that are characterized by their emphasis upon the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
      DISTINGUISHED OR CHARACTERIZED BY THEIR EMPHASIS UPON. Means the dominant
or principal character and theme of the object described by this phrase. For
instance, when the phrase refers to films “that are distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas”, the films so described are
those whose dominant or principal character and theme are the exhibition or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      NUDE OR SEMINUDE MODEL STUDIO. Means any place where a person, who
regularly appears in a state of nudity or seminudity, is provided for money or
any other form of consideration to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted,
sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by other persons. A modeling
class or studio is not a nude or seminude model studio and is not subject to
this chapter if it is operated in any of the following ways:
         (a)   By a college or university supported entirely or partly by
taxation;
         (b)   By a private college or university that maintains and operates
educational programs, the credits for which are transferable to a college or
university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
         (c)   In a structure that has no sign visible from the exterior of the
structure and no other advertising indicating that a person appearing in a
state of nudity or seminudity is available for viewing, if in order to
participate in a class in the structure, a student must enroll at least three
days in advance of the class and if not more than one nude or seminude model is
on the premises at any one time.
      NUDITY, NUDE, or STATE OF NUDITY. Means the showing of the human male or
female genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft, or cleavage with less
than a fully opaque covering; or the showing of the female breasts with less
than a fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple.
      REGULARLY FEATURES or REGULARLY SHOWN. Means a consistent or substantial
course of conduct, such that the films or performances exhibited constitute a
substantial portion of the films or performances offered as a part of the
ongoing business of the adult entertainment establishment.
      SEMINUDE or STATE OF SEMINUDITY. Means a state of dress in which opaque
clothing covers not more than the genitals, pubic region, and nipple of the
female breast, as well as portions of the body covered by supporting straps or
devices.
      SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT.
         (a)   Means a business or commercial establishment that, as one of its
principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration a place where
either of the following occur:
            1.   Two or more persons may congregate, associate, or consort for
the purpose of engaging in specified sexual activities.
            2.   Two or more persons appear nude or seminude for the purpose of
displaying their nude or seminude bodies for their receipt of consideration or
compensation in any type or form.
         (b)   An establishment where a medical practitioner, psychologist,
psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the state engages in
medically approved and recognized therapy, including but not limited to massage
therapy, as regulated pursuant to R.C. § 4731.15, is not a “sexual encounter
establishment”.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Means the cleft of the buttocks, anus, male
or female genitals, or the female breast.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, or actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation, or sodomy;
         (b)   Excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of
the activities described in division (a) of this definition.
   (B)   No person knowingly shall allow an individual, including but not
limited to a patron, customer, or employee, who is under 18 years of age on the
premises of an adult entertainment establishment.
   (C)   No individual who is under 18 years of age knowingly shall show or
give false information concerning the individual’s name or age, or other false
identification, for the purpose of gaining entrance to an adult entertainment
establishment.
   (D)   A person shall not be found guilty of a violation of division (B) of
this section if the person raises as an affirmative defense and if the jury or,
in a nonjury trial, the court finds the person has established by a
preponderance of the evidence, all of the following:
      (1)   The individual gaining entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment exhibited to an operator, employee, agent, or independent
contractor of the adult entertainment establishment a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card issued under R.C. §§ 4507.50 and
4507.52 showing that the individual was then at least 18 years of age.
      (2)   The operator, employee, agent, or independent contractor made a
bona fide effort to ascertain the true age of the individual gaining entrance
to the adult entertainment establishment by checking the identification
presented, at the time of entrance, to ascertain that the description on the
identification compared with the appearance of the individual and that the
identification had not been altered in any way.
      (3)   The operator, employee, agent, or independent contractor had reason
to believe that the individual gaining entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment was at least 18 years of age.
   (E)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense described in
division (D) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or the
deputy registrar who issued a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an
identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50 and 4507.52 shall be permitted to
submit certified copies of the records, in the Registrar’s or deputy
registrar’s possession, of the issuance of the license or identification card
in question, in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles in the action.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
permitting a juvenile on the premises of an adult entertainment establishment,
a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day a person violates this division
constitutes a separate offense.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of use by a
juvenile of false information to enter an adult entertainment establishment, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if committed by
an adult.
(R.C. § 2907.39)
§ 133.18 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; ILLEGAL OPERATION AND ACTIVITY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. Means a commercial establishment
that has as a significant or substantial portion of its stock in trade or
inventory in, derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues
from, devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior business or
advertising to, or maintains a substantial section of its sales or display
space for the sale or rental, for any form of consideration, of books,
magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or photographs, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, slides, or other visual
representations, that are characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition
or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT CABARET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. Means a commercial establishment where
films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or similar photographic
reproductions that are characterized by their emphasis upon the display of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas are regularly shown
to more than five individuals for any form of consideration.
      CHARACTERIZED BY. Describing the essential character or quality of an
item.
      EMPLOYEE. Means any individual who performs any service on the premises
of a sexually oriented business on a full-time, part-time, or contract basis,
regardless of whether the individual is denominated an employee, independent
contractor, agent, or otherwise, but does not include an individual exclusively
on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or for the delivery
of goods to the premises.
      NUDE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      NUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      OPERATOR. Means any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented
business who causes the business to function or who puts or keeps in operation
the business or who is authorized to manage the business or exercise overall
operational control of the business premises.
      PATRON. Means any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented
business except for any of the following:
         (a)   An operator or an employee of the sexually oriented business;
         (b)   An individual who is on the premises exclusively for repair or
maintenance of the premises or for the delivery of goods to the premises;
         (c)   A public employee or a volunteer firefighter emergency medical
services worker acting within the scope of the public employee’s or volunteer’s
duties as a public employee or volunteer.
      PREMISES. Means the real property on which the sexually oriented business
is located and all appurtenances to the real property, including, but not
limited, to the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways, and
parking lots or parking garages adjacent to the real property under the
ownership, control, or supervision of the owner or operator of the sexually
oriented business.
      REGULARLY. Means consistently or repeatedly.
      SEMINUDE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      SEXUAL DEVICE. Means any three-dimensional object designed and marketed
for stimulation of the male or female human genitals or anus or female breasts
or for sadomasochistic use or abuse of oneself or others, including but not
limited to dildos, vibrators, penis pumps, and physical representations of the
human genital organs, but not including devices primarily intended for
protection against sexually transmitted diseases or for preventing pregnancy.
      SEXUAL DEVICE SHOP. Means a commercial establishment that regularly
features sexual devices, but not including any pharmacy, drug store, medical
clinic, or establishment primarily dedicated to providing medical or healthcare
products or services, and not including any commercial establishment that does
not restrict access to its premises by reason of age.
      SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. Means a business or commercial enterprise that,
as one of its principal business purposes, purports to offer for any form of
consideration physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
individuals of the opposite sex when one or more of the individuals is nude or
seminude.
      SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Means an adult bookstore, adult video store,
adult cabaret, adult motion picture theater, sexual device shop, or sexual
encounter center, but does not include a business solely by reason of its
showing, selling, or renting materials that may depict sex.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Includes human genitals, pubic region, and
buttocks and the human female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Means sexual intercourse, oral copulation,
masturbation, or sodomy, or excretory functions as a part of or in connection
with any of these activities.
      STATE OF NUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      STATE OF SEMINUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
   (B)   No sexually oriented business shall be or remain open for business
between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. on any day, except that a sexually
oriented business that holds a liquor permit pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4303 may
remain open until the hour specified in that permit if it does not conduct,
offer, or allow sexually oriented entertainment activity in which the
performers appear nude.
   (C)   (1)   No patron who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family
shall knowingly touch any employee while that employee is nude or seminude or
touch the clothing of any employee while that employee is nude or seminude.
      (2)   No employee who regularly appears nude or seminude on the premises
of a sexually oriented business, while on the premises of that sexually
oriented business and while nude or seminude, shall knowingly touch a patron
who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who
is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or the clothing of a patron
who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who
is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or allow a patron who is not
a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who is not a
member of the employee’s immediate family to touch the employee or the clothing
of the employee.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegally
operating a sexually oriented business, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal
sexually oriented activity in a sexually oriented business. If the offender
touches a specified anatomical area of the patron or employee, or the clothing
covering a specified anatomical area, a violation of division (C) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender does not touch a
specified anatomical area of the patron or employee, or the clothing covering a
specified anatomical area, a violation of division (C) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2907.40)
Statutory reference:
   State indemnification for certain municipal liability stemming from local
adult business regulations, see R.C. § 715.55
§ 133.19 UNLAWFUL ADVERTISING OF MASSAGE.
   (A)   No person, by means of a statement, solicitation, or offer in a print
or electronic publication, sign, placard, storefront display, or other medium,
shall advertise massage, relaxation massage, any other massage technique or
method, or any related service, with the suggestion or promise of sexual
activity.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful advertising of
massage, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (C)   Nothing in this section prevents the municipality from enacting any
regulation of the advertising of massage further than and in addition to the
provisions of divisions (A) and (B) of this section.
   (D)   As used in this section, SEXUAL ACTIVITY has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2907.01.
(R.C. § 2927.17)
§ 133.20 NONCONSENSUAL DISSEMINATION OF PRIVATE SEXUAL IMAGES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CABLE SERVICE PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.01.
      DIRECT-TO-HOME SATELLITE SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. §
303, as amended.
      DISSEMINATE. Means to post, distribute, or publish on a computer device,
computer network, web site, or other electronic device or medium of
communication.
      IMAGE. Means a photograph, film, videotape, digital recording, or other
depiction or portrayal of a person.
      INTERACTIVE COMPUTER SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in the
“Telecommunications Act of 1996”, 47 U.S.C. § 230, as amended.
      INTERNET PROVIDER. Means a provider of internet service, including all of
the following:
         (a)   Broadband service, however defined or classified by the Federal
Communications Commission;
         (b)   Information service or telecommunications service, both as
defined in the “Telecommunications Act of 1996”, 47 U.S.C. § 153, as amended;
         (c)   Internet protocol-enabled services, as defined in R.C. §
4927.01.
      MOBILE SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153, as amended.
      SEXUAL ACT. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Sexual activity;
         (b)   Masturbation;
         (c)   An act involving a bodily substance that is performed for the
purpose of sexual arousal or gratification;
         (d)   Sado-masochistic abuse.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153,
as amended.
      VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly disseminate an image of another person if
all of the following apply:
      (1)   The person in the image is 18 years of age or older.
      (2)   The person in the image can be identified from the image itself or
from information displayed in connection with the image and the offender
supplied the identifying information.
      (3)   The person in the image is in a state of nudity or is engaged in a
sexual act.
      (4)   The image is disseminated without consent from the person in the
image.
      (5)   The image is disseminated with intent to harm the person in the
image.
   (C)   This section does not prohibit the dissemination of an image if any of
the following apply:
      (1)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of a criminal
investigation that is otherwise lawful.
      (2)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of, or in connection
with, the reporting of unlawful conduct.
      (3)   The image is part of a news report or commentary or an artistic or
expressive work, such as a performance, work of art, literary work, theatrical
work, musical work, motion picture, film, or audiovisual work.
      (4)   The image is disseminated by a law enforcement officer, or a
corrections officer or guard in a detention facility, acting within the scope
of the person’s official duties.
      (5)   The image is disseminated for another lawful public purpose.
      (6)   The person in the image is knowingly and willingly in a state of
nudity or engaged in a sexual act and is knowingly and willingly in a location
in which the person does not have a reasonable expectation of privacy.
      (7)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of medical treatment or
examination.
   (D)   The following entities are not liable for a violation of this section
solely as a result of an image or other information provided by another person:
      (1)   A provider of interactive computer service;
      (2)   A mobile service;
      (3)   A telecommunications carrier;
      (4)   An internet provider;
      (5)   A cable service provider;
      (6)   A direct-to-home satellite service;
      (7)   A video service provider.
   (E)   Any conduct that is a violation of this section and any other section
of this Code or the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, the
other section, or both sections.
   (F)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (F)(1)(b), (F)(1)
(c), or (F)(1)(d) of this section, whoever violates this section is guilty of
nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images, a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of this section or any substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images is
a misdemeanor of the second degree.
         (c)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or any substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, nonconsensual dissemination of
private sexual images is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (d)   If the offender is under 18 years of age and the person in the
image is not more than five years older than the offender, the offender shall
not be prosecuted under this section.
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty or disposition authorized or
required by law, the court may order any person who is convicted of a violation
of this section or who is adjudicated delinquent by reason of a violation of
this section to criminally forfeit all of the following property to the state
under R.C. Chapter 2981:
         (a)   Any profits or proceeds and any property the person has acquired
or maintained in violation of this section that the sentencing court determines
to have been acquired or maintained as a result of the violation;
         (b)   Any interest in, securities of, claim against, or property or
contractual right of any kind affording a source of influence over any
enterprise that the person has established, operated, controlled, or conducted
in violation of this section that the sentencing court determines to have been
acquired or maintained as a result of the violation.
   (G)   A victim of a violation of this section may commence a civil cause of
action against the offender, as described in R.C. § 2307.66.
(R.C. § 2917.211)
§ 133.99 SENTENCING FOR SEXUALLY ORIENTED OFFENSES; SEXUAL PREDATORS;
REGISTRATION.
   (A)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, and the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim
offender relative to the offense or the offense is any offense listed in R.C. §
2901.07(D)(1) to (D)(3), the judge shall include in the offender’s sentence a
statement that the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim offender,
shall comply with the requirements of R.C. § 2950.03, and shall require the
offender to submit to a DNA specimen collection procedure pursuant to R.C. §
2901.07.
   (B)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or a
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, the judge shall include in the sentence a summary of the
offender’s duties imposed under R.C. §§ 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05, and
2950.06, and the duration of the duties. The judge shall inform the offender,
at the time of sentencing, of those duties and of their duration. If required
under R.C. § 2950.03(A)(2), the judge shall perform the duties specified in
that section or, if required under R.C. § 2950.03(A)(6), the judge shall
perform the duties specified in that division.
(R.C. § 2929.23)
Cross-reference:
   Sentencing generally, see
Chapter 130
CHAPTER 134: GAMBLING OFFENSES
Section
   
134.01   Definitions
   
134.02   Prohibitions against gambling; exception
   
134.03   Operating a gambling house
   
134.04   Public gaming
   
134.05   Cheating
   
134.06   Regulations concerning operation of licensed bingo game
   
134.07   Records to be kept
   
134.08   Requirements for bingo game operators
   
134.09   Bingo games for amusement only
   
134.10   Prohibitions where instant bingo game is conducted
   
134.11   Raffle drawings
   
134.12   Instant bingo other than at bingo sessions
   
134.13   Restrictions on owner or lessor of location at instant bingo
   
134.14   Skill-based amusement machines; prohibited conduct
   
134.15   Electronic instant bingo; prohibited conduct
Statutory reference:
   Conducting an illegal bingo game, felony, see R.C. § 2915.07
   Licensing bingo games by Attorney General, see R.C. § 2915.08
   Licensing distributors of bingo supplies by Attorney General, see R.C. §
2915.081
   Licensing manufacturers of bingo supplies by Attorney General, see R.C. §
2915.082
§ 134.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BET. The hazarding of anything of value upon the result of an event,
undertaking, or contingency, but does not include a bona fide business risk.
   BINGO. Either of the following:
      (1)   A game with all of the following characteristics:
         (a)   The participants use bingo cards or sheets, including paper
formats and electronic representation or image formats, that are divided into
25 spaces arranged in five horizontal and five vertical rows of spaces, with
each space, except the central space, being designated by a combination of a
letter and a number and with the central space being designated as a free
space;
         (b)   The participants cover the spaces on the bingo cards or sheets
that correspond to combinations of letters and numbers that are announced by a
bingo game operator;
         (c)   A bingo game operator announces combinations of letters and
numbers that appear on objects that a bingo game operator selects by chance,
either manually or mechanically, from a receptacle that contains 75 objects at
the beginning of each game, each object marked by a different combination of a
letter and a number that corresponds to one of the 75 possible combinations of
a letter and a number that can appear on the bingo cards or sheets;
         (d)   The winner of the bingo game includes any participant who
properly announces during the interval between the announcements of letters and
numbers, as described in division (1)(c) of this definition, that a
predetermined and pre-announced pattern of spaces has been covered on a bingo
card or sheet being used by the participant.
      (2)   Instant bingo, electronic instant bingo, and raffles.
   BINGO GAME OPERATOR. Any person, except security personnel, who performs
work or labor at the site of bingo including but not limited to collecting
money from participants, handing out bingo cards or sheets or objects to cover
spaces on bingo cards or sheets, selecting from a receptacle the objects that
contain the combination of letters and numbers that appear on bingo cards or
sheets, calling out the combinations of letters and numbers, distributing
prizes, selling or redeeming instant bingo tickets or cards, selling or
redeeming electronic instant bingo tickets, credits, or vouchers, accessing an
electronic instant bingo system other than as a participant, supervising the
operation of a punch board, selling raffle tickets, selecting raffle tickets
from a receptacle and announcing the winning numbers in a raffle, and
preparing, selling, and serving food or beverages. “Bingo game operator” does
not include a person who is installing, maintaining, updating, or repairing an
electronic instant bingo system.
   BINGO SESSION. A period that includes both of the following:
      (1)   Not to exceed five continuous hours for the conduct of one or more
games described in division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in this section,
instant bingo, and electronic instant bingo;
      (2)   A period for the conduct of instant bingo and electronic instant
bingo for not more than two hours before and not more than two hours after the
period described in division (1) of this definition.
   BINGO SUPPLIES. Bingo cards or sheets; instant bingo tickets or cards;
electronic bingo aids; raffle tickets; punch boards; seal cards; instant bingo
ticket dispensers; electronic instant bingo systems; and devices for selecting
or displaying the combination of bingo letters and numbers or raffle tickets.
Items that are “bingo supplies” are not gambling devices if sold or otherwise
provided, and used, in accordance with this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915. For
purposes of this chapter, “bingo supplies” are not to be considered equipment
used to conduct a bingo game.
   BOOKMAKING. The business of receiving or paying off bets.
   CHAMBER OF COMMERCE. Any organization of individuals, professionals, and
businesses that has the purpose to advance the commercial, financial,
industrial, and civic interests of the community and that is, and has received
from the Internal Revenue Service a determination letter that currently is in
effect stating that the organization is, exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(6).
   CHARITABLE BINGO GAME. Any bingo game described in divisions (1) or (2) of
the definition of “bingo” in this section that is conducted by a charitable
organization that has obtained a license pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08 and the
proceeds of which are used for a charitable purpose.
   CHARITABLE INSTANT BINGO ORGANIZATION. An organization that is exempt from
federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3) and
is a charitable organization as defined in this section. The term does not
include a charitable organization that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3) and that is created by a
veteran’s organization, a fraternal organization, or a sporting organization in
regards to bingo conducted or assisted by a veteran’s organization, a fraternal
organization, or a sporting organization pursuant to R.C. § 2915.13, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, “charitable
organization” means either of the following:
         (a)   An organization that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
         (b)   A volunteer rescue service organization, volunteer firefighter’s
organization, veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §§ 501(c)
(4), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10) or 501(c)(19).
      (2)   To qualify as a charitable organization, an organization shall have
been in continuous existence as such in this state for a period of two years
immediately preceding either the making of an application for a bingo license
under R.C. § 2915.08 or the conducting of any game of chance as provided in
R.C. § 2915.02(D), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   CHARITABLE PURPOSE. Means that the net profit of bingo, other than instant
bingo or electronic instant bingo, is used by, or is given, donated, or
otherwise transferred to, any of the following:
      (1)   Any organization that is described in IRC §§ 509(a)(1), 509(a)(2),
or 509(a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an organization that is tax
exempt under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
      (2)   A veteran’s organization that is a post, chapter, or organization
of veterans, or an auxiliary unit or society of, or a trust or foundation for,
any such post, chapter, or organization organized in the United States or any
of its possessions, at least 75% of the members of which are veterans and
substantially all of the other members of which are individuals who are
spouses, widows, or widowers of veterans, or such individuals, provided that no
part of the net earnings of such post, chapter, or organization inures to the
benefit of any private shareholder or individual, and further provided that the
net profit is used by the post, chapter, or organization for the charitable
purposes set forth in R.C. § 5739.02(B)(12), is used for awarding scholarships
to or for attendance at an institution mentioned in that division of the Ohio
Revised Code, is donated to a governmental agency, or is used for nonprofit
youth activities, the purchase of United States or Ohio flags that are donated
to schools, youth groups, or other bona fide nonprofit organizations, promotion
of patriotism, or disaster relief;
      (3)   A fraternal organization that has been in continuous existence in
this state for 15 years and that uses the net profit exclusively for religious,
charitable, scientific, literary, or educational purposes, or for the
prevention of cruelty to children or animals, if contributions for such use
would qualify as a deductible charitable contribution under IRC § 170;
      (4)   A volunteer firefighter’s organization that uses the net profit for
the purposes set forth in the definition of “volunteer firefighter’s
organization” in this section.
   COMMUNITY ACTION AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 122.66.
   CONDUCT. To back, promote, organize, manage, carry on, sponsor, or prepare
for the operation of bingo or a game of chance, a scheme of chance, or a
sweepstakes.
   DEAL. A single game of instant bingo tickets, or a single game of electronic
instant bingo tickets, all with the same serial number.
   DISTRIBUTOR. Any person who purchases or obtains bingo supplies and who does
either of the following:
      (1)   Sells, offers for sale, or otherwise provides or offers to provide
the bingo supplies to another person for use in this state;
      (2)   Modifies, converts, adds to, or removes parts from the bingo
supplies to further their promotion or sale for use in this state.
   ELECTRONIC BINGO AID.
      (1)   An electronic device used by a participant to monitor bingo cards
or sheets purchased at the time and place of a bingo session and that does all
of the following:
         (a)   It provides a means for a participant to input numbers and
letters announced by a bingo caller.
         (b)   It compares the numbers and letters entered by the participant
to the bingo faces previously stored in the memory of the device.
         (c)   It identifies a winning bingo pattern.
      (2)   The term does not include any device into which a coin, currency,
token, or an equivalent is inserted to activate play.
   ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO.
      (1)   A form of bingo that consists of an electronic or digital
representation of instant bingo in which a participant wins a prize if the
participant’s electronic instant bingo ticket contains a combination of numbers
or symbols that was designated in advance as a winning combination, and to
which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Each deal has a predetermined, finite number of winning and
losing tickets and a predetermined prize amount and deal structure, provided
that there may be multiple winning combinations in each deal and multiple
winning tickets.
         (b)   Each electronic instant bingo ticket within a deal has a unique
serial number that is not regenerated.
         (c)   Each electronic instant bingo ticket within a deal is sold for
the same price.
         (d)   After a participant purchases an electronic instant bingo
ticket, the combination of numbers or symbols on the ticket is revealed to the
participant.
         (e)   The reveal of numbers or symbols on the ticket may incorporate
an entertainment or bonus theme, provided that the reveal does not include
spinning reels that resemble a slot machine.
         (f)   The reveal theme, if any, does not require additional
consideration or award any prize other than any predetermined prize associated
with the electronic instant bingo ticket.
      (2)   The term shall not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any game, entertainment, or bonus theme that replicates or
simulates any of the following:
            1.   The gambling games of keno, blackjack, roulette, poker, craps,
other casino-style table games;
            2.   Horse racing;
            3.   Gambling games offered in this state on slot machines or video
lottery terminals. As used in this division, “video lottery terminal” has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 3770.21.
         (b)   Any device operated by dropping one or more coins or tokens into
a slot and pulling a handle or pushing a button or touchpoint on a touchscreen
to activate one to three or more rotating reels marked into horizontal segments
by varying symbols, where the predetermined prize amount depends on how and how
many of the symbols line up when the rotating reels come to a rest;
         (c)   Any device that includes a coin or token slot, tray, or hopper
and the ability to dispense coins, cash, tokens, or anything of value other
than a credit ticket voucher.
   ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO SYSTEM. Means both of the following:
      (1)   A mechanical, electronic, digital, or video device and associated
software to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   It is used by not more than one player at a time to play
electronic instant bingo on a single screen that is physically connected to the
device;
         (b)   It is located on the premises of the principal place of business
of a veteran’s or fraternal organization that holds a type II or type III bingo
license to conduct electronic instant bingo at that location issued under R.C.
§ 2915.08.
      (2)   Any associated equipment or software used to manage, monitor, or
document any aspect of electronic instant bingo.
   EXPENSES. The reasonable amount of gross profit actually expended for all of
the following:
      (1)   The purchase or lease of bingo supplies;
      (2)   The annual license fee required under R.C. § 2915.08;
      (3)   Bank fees and service charges for a bingo session or game account
described in R.C. § 2915.10;
      (4)   Audits and accounting services;
      (5)   Safes;
      (6)   Cash registers;
      (7)   Hiring security personnel;
      (8)   Advertising bingo;
      (9)   Renting premises in which to conduct a bingo session;
      (10)   Tables and chairs;
      (11)   Expenses for maintaining and operating a charitable organization’s
facilities, including but not limited to a post home, club house, lounge,
tavern, or canteen and any grounds attached to the post home, club house,
lounge, tavern, or canteen;
      (12)   Payment of real property taxes and assessments that are levied on
a premises on which bingo is conducted;
      (13)   Any other product or service directly related to the conduct of
bingo that is authorized in rules adopted by the Attorney General under R.C. §
2915.08(F)(1).
   FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION. Any society, order, state headquarters, or
association within this state, except a college or high school fraternity, that
is not organized for profit, that is a branch, lodge, or chapter of a national
or state organization, that exists exclusively for the common business or
sodality of its members.
   GAMBLING DEVICE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A book, totalizer, or other equipment used for recording bets;
      (2)   A ticket, token, or other device representing a chance, share, or
interest in a scheme of chance or evidencing a bet;
      (3)   A deck of cards, dice, gaming table, roulette wheel, slot machine,
or other apparatus designed for use in connection with a game of chance;
      (4)   Any equipment, device, apparatus, or paraphernalia specially
designed for gambling purposes;
      (5)   Bingo supplies sold or otherwise provided, or used, in violation of
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   GAMBLING OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. Chapter 2915;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 or a violation of R.C. § 2915.06
as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or of the United States, of which gambling is an
element;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   GAME FLARE. The board or placard, or electronic representation of a board or
placard, that accompanies each deal of instant bingo or electronic instant
bingo tickets and that includes the following information for the game:
      (1)   The name of the game;
      (2)   The manufacturer’s name or distinctive logo;
      (3)   The form number;
      (4)   The ticket count;
      (5)   The prize structure, including the number of winning tickets by
denomination and the respective winning symbol or number combinations for the
winning tickets;
      (6)   The cost per play;
      (7)   The serial number of the game.
   GAME OF CHANCE. Poker, craps, roulette, or other game in which a player
gives anything of value in the hope of gain, the outcome of which is determined
largely by chance, but does not include bingo.
   GAME OF CHANCE CONDUCTED FOR PROFIT. Any game of chance designed to produce
income for the person who conducts or operates the game of chance, but does not
include bingo.
   GROSS ANNUAL REVENUES. The annual gross receipts derived from the conduct of
bingo described in division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in this section
plus the annual net profit derived from the conduct of bingo described in
division (2) of the definition of “bingo” in this section.
   GROSS PROFIT. Gross receipts minus the amount actually expended for the
payment of prize awards.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. All money or assets, including admission fees, that a person
receives from bingo without the deduction of any amounts for prizes paid out or
for the expenses of conducting bingo. The term does not include any money
directly taken in from the sale of food or beverages by a charitable
organization conducting bingo, or by a bona fide auxiliary unit or society of a
charitable organization conducting bingo, provided all of the following apply:
      (1)   The auxiliary unit or society has been in existence as a bona fide
auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization for at least two years
prior to conducting bingo.
      (2)   The person who purchases the food or beverage receives nothing of
value except the food or beverage and items customarily received with the
purchase of that food or beverage.
      (3)   The food and beverages are sold at customary and reasonable prices.
   HISTORIC RAILROAD. All or a portion of the tracks and right-of-way of a
railroad that was owned and operated by a for profit common carrier in this
state at any time prior to January 1, 1950.
   INSTANT BINGO. A form of bingo that shall use folded or banded tickets or
paper cards with perforated break-open tabs, a face of which is covered or
otherwise hidden from view to conceal a number, letter, or symbol, or set of
numbers, letters, or symbols, some of which have been designated in advance as
prize winners, and may also include games in which some winners are determined
by the random selection of one or more bingo numbers by the use of a seal card
or bingo blower. “Instant bingo” also includes a punch board game. In all
“instant bingo” the prize amount and structure shall be predetermined. The term
does not include electronic instant bingo or any device that is activated by
the insertion of a coin, currency, token, or an equivalent, and that contains
as one of its components a video display monitor that is capable of displaying
numbers, letters, symbols, or characters in winning or losing combinations.
   INSTANT BINGO TICKET DISPENSER. A mechanical device that dispenses an
instant bingo ticket or card as the sole item of value dispensed and that has
the following characteristics:
      (1)   It is activated upon the insertion of United States currency.
      (2)   It performs no gaming functions.
      (3)   It does not contain a video display monitor or generate noise.
      (4)   It is not capable of displaying any numbers, letters, symbols, or
characters in winning or losing combinations.
      (5)   It does not simulate or display rolling or spinning reels.
      (6)   It is incapable of determining whether a dispensed bingo ticket or
card is a winning or non-winning ticket or card and requires a winning ticket
or card to be paid by a bingo game operator.
      (7)   It may provide accounting and security features to aid in
accounting for the instant bingo tickets or cards it dispenses.
      (8)   It is not part of an electronic network and is not interactive.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE (IRC). The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 100 Stat.
2085, 26 U.S.C. §§ 1 et seq., as now or hereafter amended.
   MANUFACTURER. Any person who assembles completed bingo supplies from raw
materials, other items, or subparts or who modifies, converts, adds to, or
removes parts from bingo supplies to further their promotion or sale.
   MERCHANDISE PRIZE. Any item of value, but shall not include any of the
following:
      (1)   Cash, gift cards, or any equivalent thereof;
      (2)   Plays on games of chance, state lottery tickets, or bingo;
      (3)   Firearms, tobacco, or alcoholic beverages; or
      (4)   A redeemable voucher that is redeemable for any of the items listed
in division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   NET PROFIT. Gross profit minus expenses.
   NET PROFIT FROM THE PROCEEDS OF THE SALE OF INSTANT BINGO OR ELECTRONIC
INSTANT BINGO. Gross profit minus the ordinary, necessary, and reasonable
expense expended for the purchase of bingo supplies for the purpose of
conducting instant bingo or electronic instant bingo, and, in the case of
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conducted by a veteran’s, fraternal,
or sporting organization, minus the payment by that organization of real
property taxes and assessments levied on a premises on which instant bingo or
electronic instant bingo is conducted.
   PARTICIPANT. Any person who plays bingo.
   PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1.59 and includes any firm or any
other legal entity, however organized.
   POOL NOT CONDUCTED FOR PROFIT. A scheme in which a participant gives a
valuable consideration for a chance to win a prize and the total amount of
consideration wagered is distributed to a participant or participants.
   PUNCH BOARD. A form of instant bingo that uses a board containing a number
of holes or receptacles of uniform size in which are placed, mechanically and
randomly, serially numbered slips of paper that may be punched or drawn from
the hole or receptacle. A player may punch or draw the numbered slips of paper
from the holes or receptacles and obtain the prize established for the game if
the number drawn corresponds to a winning number or, if the punch board
includes the use of a seal card, a potential winning number.
   RAFFLE. A form of bingo in which the one or more prizes are won by one or
more persons who have purchased a raffle ticket. The one or more winners of the
raffle are determined by drawing a ticket stub or other detachable section from
a receptacle containing ticket stubs or detachable sections corresponding to
all tickets sold for the raffle. The term does not include the drawing of a
ticket stub or other detachable section of a ticket purchased to attend a
professional sporting event if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The ticket stub or other detachable section is used to select the
winner of a free prize given away at the professional sporting event; and
      (2)   The cost of the ticket is the same as the cost of a ticket to the
professional sporting event on days when no free prize is given away.
   REDEEMABLE VOUCHER. Any ticket, token, coupon, receipt, or other noncash
representation of value.
   RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION. Any church, body of communicants, or group that is
not organized or operated for profit and that gathers in common membership for
regular worship and religious observances.
   REVOKE. To void permanently all rights and privileges of the holder of a
license issued under R.C. § 2915.08, 2915.081, or 2915.082 or a charitable
gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   SCHEME OF CHANCE.
      (1)   A slot machine unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3772, lottery
unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3770, numbers game, pool conducted for
profit, or other scheme in which a participant gives a valuable consideration
for a chance to win a prize, but does not include bingo, a skill-based
amusement machine, or a pool not conducted for profit. “Scheme of chance”
includes the use of an electronic device to reveal the results of a game entry
if valuable consideration is paid, directly or indirectly, for a chance to win
a prize. Valuable consideration is deemed to be paid for a chance to win a
prize in the following instances:
         (a)   Less than 50% of the goods or services sold by a scheme of
chance operator in exchange for game entries are used or redeemed by
participants at any one location;
         (b)   Less than 50% of participants who purchase goods or services at
any one location do not accept, use, or redeem the goods or services sold or
purportedly sold;
         (c)   More than 50% of prizes at any one location are revealed to
participants through an electronic device simulating a game of chance or a
“casino game” as defined in R.C. § 3772.01;
         (d)   The good or service sold by a scheme of chance operator in
exchange for a game entry cannot be used or redeemed in the manner advertised;
         (e)   A participant pays more than fair market value for goods or
services offered by a scheme of chance operator in order to receive one or more
game entries;
         (f)   A participant may use the electronic device to purchase
additional game entries;
         (g)   A participant may purchase additional game entries by using
points or credits won as prizes while using the electronic device;
         (h)   A scheme of chance operator pays out in prize money more than
20% of the gross revenue received at one location; or
         (i)   A participant makes a purchase or exchange in order to obtain
any good or service that may be used to facilitate play on the electronic
device.
      (2)   As used in this division, “electronic device” means a mechanical,
video, digital, or electronic machine or device that is capable of displaying
information on a screen or other mechanism and that is owned, leased, or
otherwise possessed by any person conducting a scheme of chance, or by that
person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, or contractors. “Electronic
device” does not include an electronic instant bingo system.
   SEAL CARD. A form of instant bingo that uses instant bingo tickets in
conjunction with a board or placard that contains one or more seals that, when
removed or opened, reveal predesignated winning numbers, letters, or symbols.
   SECURITY PERSONNEL. Includes any person who either is a Sheriff, deputy
sheriff, Marshal, deputy marshal, township constable, or member of an organized
police department of a municipal corporation or has successfully completed a
peace officer’s training course pursuant to R.C. §§ 109.71 through 109.79 and
who is hired to provide security for the premises on which bingo is conducted.
   SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINE.
      (1)   (a)   A mechanical, video, digital, or electronic device that
rewards the player or players, if at all, only with merchandise prizes or with
redeemable vouchers redeemable only for merchandise prizes, provided that with
respect to rewards for playing the game all of the following apply:
            1.   The wholesale value of a merchandise prize awarded as a result
of the single play of a machine does not exceed $10;
            2.   Redeemable vouchers awarded for any single play of a machine
are not redeemable for a merchandise prize with a wholesale value of more than
$10;
            3.   Redeemable vouchers are not redeemable for a merchandise prize
that has a wholesale value of more than $10 times the fewest number of single
plays necessary to accrue the redeemable vouchers required to obtain that
prize; and
            4.   Any redeemable vouchers or merchandise prizes are distributed
at the site of the skill-based amusement machine at the time of play.
         (b)   A card for the purchase of gasoline is a redeemable voucher for
purposes of division (1) of this definition even if the skill-based amusement
machine for the play of which the card is awarded is located at a place where
gasoline may not be legally distributed to the public or the card is not
redeemable at the location of, or at the time of playing, the skill-based
amusement machine.
      (2)   A device shall not be considered a skill-based amusement machine
and shall be considered a slot machine if it pays cash or one or more of the
following apply:
         (a)   The ability of a player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the number or ratio of prior wins to prior losses of players playing the game;
         (b)   Any reward of redeemable vouchers is not based solely on the
player achieving the object of the game or the player’s score;
         (c)   The outcome of the game, or the value of the redeemable voucher
or merchandise prize awarded for winning the game, can be controlled by a
source other than any player playing the game;
         (d)   The success of any player is or may be determined by a chance
event that cannot be altered by player actions;
         (e)   The ability of any player to succeed at the game is determined
by game features not visible or known to the player;
         (f)   The ability of the player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the exercise of a skill that no reasonable player could exercise.
      (3)   All of the following apply to any machine that is operated as
described in division (1) of this definition:
         (a)   As used in this definition of “skill-based amusement machine”,
GAME and PLAY mean one event from the initial activation of the machine until
the results of play are determined without payment of additional consideration.
An individual utilizing a machine that involves a single game, play, contest,
competition, or tournament may be awarded redeemable vouchers or merchandise
prizes based on the results of play.
         (b)   Advance play for a single game, play, contest, competition, or
tournament participation may be purchased. The cost of the contest,
competition, or tournament participation may be greater than a single non-
contest, competition, or tournament play.
         (c)   To the extent that the machine is used in a contest,
competition, or tournament, that contest, competition, or tournament has a
defined starting and ending date and is open to participants in competition for
scoring and ranking results toward the awarding of redeemable vouchers or
merchandise prizes that are stated prior to the start of the contest,
competition, or tournament.
      (4)   For purposes of division (1) of this definition, the mere presence
of a device, such as a pin-setting, ball-releasing, or scoring mechanism, that
does not contribute to or affect the outcome of the play of the game does not
make the device a skill-based amusement machine.
   SLOT MACHINE.
      (1)   Either of the following:
         (a)   Any mechanical, electronic, video, or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player who gives the thing of value in the hope of gain;
         (b)   Any mechanical, electronic, video, or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player to conduct bingo or a scheme or game of chance.
      (2)   The term does not include a skill-based amusement machine, an
instant bingo ticket dispenser, or an electronic instant bingo system.
   SPORTING ORGANIZATION. A hunting, fishing, or trapping organization, other
than a college or high school fraternity or sorority, that is not organized for
profit, that is affiliated with a state or national sporting organization,
including but not limited to the League of Ohio Sportsmen, and that has been in
continuous existence in this state for a period of three years.
   SUSPEND. To interrupt temporarily all rights and privileges of the holder of
a license issued under R.C. § 2915.08, 2915.081, or 2915.082 or a charitable
gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   SWEEPSTAKES. Any game, contest, advertising scheme or plan, or other
promotion where consideration is not required for a person to enter to win or
become eligible to receive any prize, the determination of which is based upon
chance. “Sweepstakes” does not include bingo as authorized under R.C. Chapter
2915, pari-mutuel wagering as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3769, lotteries
conducted by the State Lottery Commission as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3770,
and casino gaming as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3772.
   SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE.
      (1)   A mechanical, video, digital, or electronic machine or device that
is owned, leased, or otherwise possessed by any person conducting a
sweepstakes, or by that person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, or
contractors, that is intended to be used by a sweepstakes participant, and that
is capable of displaying information on a screen or other mechanism. A device
is a sweepstakes terminal device if any of the following apply:
         (a)   The device uses a simulated game terminal as a representation of
the prizes associated with the results of the sweepstakes entries.
         (b)   The device utilizes software such that the simulated game
influences or determines the winning of or value of the prize.
         (c)   The device selects prizes from a predetermined finite pool of
entries.
         (d)   The device utilizes a mechanism that reveals the content of a
predetermined sweepstakes entry.
         (e)   The device predetermines the prize results and stores those
results for delivery at the time the sweepstakes entry results are revealed.
         (f)   The device utilizes software to create a game result.
         (g)   The device reveals the prize incrementally, even though the
device does not influence the awarding of the prize or the value of any prize
awarded.
         (h)   The device determines and associates the prize with an entry or
entries at the time the sweepstakes is entered.
      (2)   As used in this definition and in §
134.02:
         ENTER. The act by which a person becomes eligible to receive any prize
offered in a sweepstakes.
         ENTRY. One event from the initial activation of the sweepstakes
terminal device until all the sweepstakes prize results from that activation
are revealed.
         PRIZE. Any gift, award, gratuity, good, service, credit, reward, or
any other thing of value that may be transferred to a person, whether
possession of the prize is actually transferred, or placed on an account or
other record as evidence of the intent to transfer the prize.
         SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE FACILITY. Any location in this state where
a sweepstakes terminal device is provided to a sweepstakes participant, except
as provided in §
134.02(G) and R.C. § 2915.02(G).
   VETERAN’S ORGANIZATION. Any individual post or state headquarters of a
national veteran’s association or an auxiliary unit of any individual post of a
national veteran’s association, which post, state headquarters, or auxiliary
unit is incorporated as a nonprofit corporation and either has received a
letter from the state headquarters of the national veteran’s association
indicating that the individual post or auxiliary unit is in good standing with
the national veteran’s association or has received a letter from the national
veteran’s association indicating that the state headquarters is in good
standing with the national veteran’s association. As used in this definition,
NATIONAL VETERAN’S ASSOCIATION means any veteran’s association that has been in
continuous existence as such for a period of at least five years and either is
incorporated by an act of the United States Congress or has a national dues-
paying membership of at least 5,000 persons.
   VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER’S ORGANIZATION. Any organization of volunteer
firefighters, as defined in R.C. § 146.01, that is organized and operated
exclusively to provide financial support for a volunteer fire department or a
volunteer fire company and that is recognized or ratified by a county,
municipal corporation, or township.
   VOLUNTEER RESCUE SERVICE ORGANIZATION. Any organization of volunteers
organized to function as an emergency medical service organization, as defined
in R.C. § 4765.01.
   YOUTH ATHLETIC ORGANIZATION. Any organization, not organized for profit,
that is organized and operated exclusively to provide financial support to, or
to operate, athletic activities for persons who are 21 years of age or younger
by means of sponsoring, organizing, operating, or contributing to the support
of an athletic team, club, league, or association.
   YOUTH ATHLETIC PARK ORGANIZATION. Any organization, not organized for
profit, that satisfies both of the following:
      (1)   It owns, operates, and maintains playing fields that satisfy both
of the following:
         (a)   The playing fields are used for athletic activities by one or
more organizations, not organized for profit, each of which is organized and
operated exclusively to provide financial support to, or to operate, athletic
activities for persons who are 18 years of age or younger by means of
sponsoring, organizing, operating, or contributing to the support of an
athletic team, club, league, or association.
         (b)   The playing fields are not used for any profit-making activity
at any time during the year.
      (2)   It uses the proceeds of bingo it conducts exclusively for the
operation, maintenance, and improvement of its playing fields of the type
described in division (1) of this definition.
(R.C. § 2915.01)
§ 134.02 PROHIBITIONS AGAINST GAMBLING; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Engage in bookmaking, or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates bookmaking.
      (2)   Establish, promote, or operate or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance.
      (3)   Knowingly procure, transmit, exchange, or engage in conduct that
facilitates the procurement, transmission, or exchange of information for use
in establishing odds or determining winners in connection with bookmaking or
with any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance.
      (4)   Engage in betting or in playing any scheme or game of chance as a
substantial source of income or livelihood.
      (5)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
and either:
         (a)   Give to another person any item described in R.C. § 2915.01(VV)
(1), (VV)(2), (VV)(3), or (VV)(4) as a prize for playing or participating in a
sweepstakes; or
         (b)   Give to another person any merchandise prize, or a redeemable
voucher for a merchandise prize, the wholesale value of which is in excess of
$10 and which is awarded as a single entry for playing or participating in a
sweepstakes. Redeemable vouchers shall not be redeemable for a merchandise
prize that has a wholesale value of more than $10.
      (6)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
without first obtaining a current annual “certificate of registration” from the
Attorney General as required by R.C. § 2915.02(F).
      (7)   With purpose to violate division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
(A)(5), or (A)(6) of this section, acquire, possess, control, or operate any
gambling device.
   (B)   For purposes of division (A)(1) of this section, a person facilitates
bookmaking if the person in any way knowingly aids an illegal bookmaking
operation, including, without limitation, placing a bet with a person engaged
in or facilitating illegal bookmaking. For purposes of division (A)(2) of this
section, a person facilitates a game of chance conducted for profit or a scheme
of chance if the person in any way knowingly aids in the conduct or operation
of any such game or scheme, including, without limitation, playing any such
game or scheme.
   (C)   This section does not prohibit conduct in connection with gambling
expressly permitted by law.
   (D)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Games of chance, if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The games of chance are not craps for money or roulette for
money.
         (b)   The games of chance are conducted by a charitable organization
that is and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a determination
letter that is currently in effect, stating that the organization is exempt
from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)
(3).
         (c)   The games of chance are conducted at festivals of the charitable
organization that are conducted not more than a total of five days a calendar
year, and are conducted on premises owned by the charitable organization for a
period of no less than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the
games of chance, on premises leased from a governmental unit, or on premises
that are leased from a veteran’s or fraternal organization and that have been
owned by the lessor veteran’s or fraternal organization for a period of no less
than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the games of chance. A
charitable organization shall not lease premises from a veteran’s or fraternal
organization to conduct a festival described in this division, if the veteran’s
or fraternal organization already has leased the premises 12 times during the
preceding year to charitable organizations for that purpose. If a charitable
organization leases premises from a veteran’s or fraternal organization to
conduct a festival described in this division, the charitable organization
shall not pay a rental rate for the premises per day of the festival that
exceeds the rental rate per bingo session that a charitable organization may
pay under R.C. § 2915.09(B)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance when it leases premises from another charitable organization to
conduct bingo games.
         (d)   All of the money or assets received from the games of chance
after deduction only of prizes paid out during the conduct of the games of
chance are used by, given, donated or otherwise transferred to any organization
that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that is tax exempt under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c)(3).
         (e)   The games of chance are not conducted during or within ten hours
of a bingo game conducted for amusement purposes only pursuant to R.C. §
2915.12 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance. No person shall
receive any commission, wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity, or other
form of compensation, directly or indirectly, for operating or assisting in the
operation of any game of chance.
      (2)   Any tag fishing tournament, as defined in R.C. § 1531.01, operated
under a permit issued under R.C. § 1533.92.
      (3)   Bingo conducted by a charitable organization that holds a license
issued under R.C. § 2915.08.
   (E)   Division (D) of this section shall not be construed to authorize the
sale, lease, or other temporary or permanent transfer of the right to conduct
games of chance, as granted by that division, by any charitable organization
that is granted that right.
   (F)   Any person desiring to conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a
sweepstakes with the use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes
terminal device facility shall first register with the Office of the Attorney
General and obtain an annual certificate of registration by providing a filing
fee of $200 and all information as required by rule adopted under R.C. §
2915.02(H). Not later than the tenth day of each month, each sweepstakes
terminal device operator shall file a sweepstakes terminal device monthly
report with the Attorney General and provide a filing fee of $50 and all
information required by rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.02(H). All information
provided to the Attorney General under this division shall be available to law
enforcement upon request.
   (G)   (1)   A person may apply to the Attorney General, on a form prescribed
by the Attorney General, for a certificate of compliance that the person is not
operating a sweepstakes terminal device facility. The form shall require the
person to include the address of the business location where sweepstakes
terminal devices will be used and to make the following certifications:
         (a)   That the person will not use more than two sweepstakes terminal
devices at the business location;
         (b)   That the retail value of sweepstakes prizes to be awarded at the
business location using sweepstakes terminal devices during a reporting period
will be less than 3% of the gross revenue received at the business location
during the reporting period;
         (c)   That no other form of gaming except lottery ticket sales as
authorized under R.C. Chapter 3770 will be conducted at the business location
or in an adjoining area of the business location;
         (d)   That any sweepstakes terminal device at the business location
will not allow any deposit of any money, coin, or token, or the use of any
credit card, debit card, prepaid card, or any other method of similar payment
to be used, directly or indirectly, to participate in a sweepstakes;
         (e)   That notification of any prize will not take place on the same
day as a participant’s sweepstakes entry; and
         (f)   That the person consents to provide any other information to the
Attorney General as required by rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.02(H).
      (2)   The filing fee for a certificate of compliance is $250. The
Attorney General may charge up to an additional $250 for reasonable expenses
resulting from any investigation related to an application for a certificate of
compliance.
      (3)   A certificate of compliance is effective for one year. The
certificate holder may reapply for a certificate of compliance. A person issued
a certificate of compliance shall file semiannual reports with the Attorney
General stating the number of sweepstakes terminal devices at the business
location and that the retail value of prizes awarded at the business location
using sweepstakes terminal devices is less than 3% of the gross revenue
received at the business location.
   (H)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of gambling, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling
offense, gambling is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
Notwithstanding this division, failing to file a sweepstakes terminal device
monthly report as required by division (F) of this section or the semiannual
report required by division (G) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2915.02(A) - (G), (K))
§ 134.03 OPERATING A GAMBLING HOUSE.
   (A)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control, or
supervision of premises, shall:
      (1)   Use or occupy the premises for gambling in violation of R.C. §
2915.02 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   Recklessly permit the premises to be used or occupied for gambling
in violation of R.C. § 2915.02 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of operating a
gambling house, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of a gambling offense, operating a gambling house is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   Premises used or occupied in violation of this section constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement under R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2915.03)
§ 134.04 PUBLIC GAMING.
   (A)   No person, while at a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall,
or other place of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort shall
make a bet or play any game of chance or scheme of chance.
   (B)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control, or
supervision of a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall, or other place
of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort shall recklessly permit
those premises to be used or occupied in violation of division (A) of this
section.
   (C)   Divisions (A) and (B) of this section do not prohibit conduct in
connection with gambling expressly permitted by law.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public gaming. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, public gaming is a minor misdemeanor. If
the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling offense, public
gaming is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (E)   Premises used or occupied in violation of division (B) of this section
constitute a nuisance subject to abatement under R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2915.04)
§ 134.05 CHEATING.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome
of any of the following:
      (1)   The subject of a bet.
      (2)   A contest of knowledge, skill, or endurance that is not an athletic
or sporting event.
      (3)   A scheme or game of chance.
      (4)   Bingo.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Offer, give, solicit, or accept anything of value to corrupt the
outcome of an athletic or sporting event.
      (2)   Engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome of an athletic or
sporting event.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
cheating. Except as otherwise provided in this division, cheating is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the potential gain from the cheating is
$1,000 or more or if the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling
offense or of any theft offense as defined in R.C. § 2913.01, cheating is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
corrupting sports. Corrupting sports is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.05)
§ 134.06 REGULATIONS CONCERNING OPERATION OF LICENSED BINGO GAME.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo shall fail to do any of
the following:
      (1)   Own all of the equipment used to conduct bingo or lease that
equipment from a charitable organization that is licensed to conduct bingo, or
from the landlord of a premises where bingo is conducted, for a rental rate
that is not more than is customary and reasonable for that equipment;
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(3) of this section,
use all of the gross receipts from bingo for paying prizes, for reimbursement
of expenses for or for renting premises in which to conduct bingo, for
reimbursement of expenses for or for purchasing or leasing bingo supplies used
in conducting bingo, for reimbursement of expenses for or for hiring security
personnel, for reimbursement of expenses for or for advertising bingo, or for
reimbursement of other expenses or for other expenses listed in the definition
for “expenses” in R.C. § 2915.01, provided that the amount of the receipts so
spent is not more than is customary and reasonable for a similar purchase,
lease, hiring, advertising, or expense. If the building in which bingo is
conducted is owned by the charitable organization conducting bingo and the
bingo conducted includes a form of bingo described in division (1) of the
definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01, the charitable organization may deduct
from the total amount of the gross receipts from each session a sum equal to
the lesser of $600 or 45% of the gross receipts from the bingo described in
that division as consideration for the use of the premises;
      (3)   Use, or give, donate, or otherwise transfer, all of the net profit
derived from bingo described in R.C. § 2915.01(O)(1) for a charitable purpose
listed in its license application and described in R.C. §
   (B)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall fail to do
any of the following:
      (1)   Conduct the bingo game on premises that are owned by the charitable
organization, on premises that are owned by another charitable organization and
leased from that charitable organization for a rental rate not in excess of the
lesser of $650 per bingo session or 45% of the gross receipts of the bingo
session, on premises that are leased from a person other than a charitable
organization for a rental rate that is not more than is customary and
reasonable for premises that are similar in location, size, and quality but not
in excess of $450 per bingo session, or on premises that are owned by a person
other than a charitable organization, that are leased from that person by
another charitable organization, and that are subleased from that other
charitable organization by the charitable organization for a rental rate not in
excess of $450 per bingo session. No charitable organization is required to pay
property taxes or assessments on premises that the charitable organization
leases from another person to conduct bingo sessions. If the charitable
organization leases from a person other than a charitable organization the
premises on which it conducts bingo sessions, the lessor of the premises shall
provide only the premises to the organization and shall not provide the
organization with bingo game operators, security personnel, concessions or
concession operators, bingo supplies, or any other type of service. A
charitable organization shall not lease or sublease premises that it owns or
leases to more than three other charitable organizations per calendar week for
conducting bingo sessions on the premises. A person that is not a charitable
organization shall not lease premises that it owns, leases, or otherwise is
empowered to lease to more than three charitable organizations per calendar
week for conducting bingo sessions on the premises. In no case shall more than
nine bingo sessions be conducted on any premises in any calendar week;
      (2)   Display its license conspicuously at the premises where the bingo
session is conducted;
      (3)   Conduct the bingo session in accordance with division (1) of the
definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01.
   (C)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for operating a bingo
session that is conducted by the charitable organization or for preparing,
selling, or serving food or beverages at the site of the bingo session, permit
any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to pay
compensation to any bingo game operator who prepares, sells, or serves food or
beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable organization, or
permit any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to prepare,
sell, or serve food or beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable
organization, if the auxiliary unit or society pays any compensation to the
bingo game operators who prepare, sell, or serve the food or beverages;
      (2)   Pay consulting fees to any person for any services performed in
relation to the bingo session;
      (3)   Pay concession fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in the bingo session;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(4) of this section,
conduct more than three bingo sessions in any seven-day period. A volunteer
firefighter’s organization or a volunteer rescue service organization that
conducts not more than five bingo sessions in a calendar year may conduct more
than three bingo sessions in a seven-day period after notifying the Attorney
General when it will conduct the sessions;
      (5)   Pay out more than $6,000 in prizes for bingo games described in
R.C. § 2915.01(S)(1) during any bingo session that is conducted by the
charitable organization. “Prizes” does not include awards from the conduct of
instant bingo.
      (6)   Conduct a bingo session at any time during the eight-hour period
between 2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m., at any time during, or within ten hours of, a
bingo game conducted for amusement only pursuant to R.C. § 2915.12 or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, at any premises not specified on
its license, or on any day of the week or during any time period not specified
on its license. This division does not prohibit the sale of instant bingo
tickets beginning at 9:00 a.m. for a bingo session that begins at 10:00 a.m. If
circumstances make it impractical for the charitable organization to conduct a
bingo session at the premises, or on the day of the week or at the time
specified on its license or if a charitable organization wants to conduct bingo
sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than the day or time specified
on its license, the charitable organization may apply in writing to the
Attorney General for an amended license pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08(J). A
charitable organization may apply twice in each calendar year for an amended
license to conduct bingo sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than
the day or time specified on its license. If the amended license is granted,
the organization may conduct bingo sessions at the premises, on the day of the
week, and at the time specified on its amended license;
      (7)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, is under the age of 18 to work as a bingo game operator;
      (8)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any
jurisdiction to be a bingo game operator;
      (9)   Permit the lessor of the premises on which the bingo session is
conducted, if the lessor is not a charitable organization, to provide the
charitable organization with bingo game operators, security personnel,
concessions, bingo supplies, or any other type of service;
      (10)   Purchase or lease bingo supplies from any person except a
distributor issued a license under R.C. § 2915.081;
      (11)   (a)   Use or permit the use of electronic bingo aids except under
the following circumstances:
            1.   For any single participant, not more than 90 bingo faces can
be played using an electronic bingo aid or aids.
            2.   The charitable organization shall provide a participant using
an electronic bingo aid with corresponding paper bingo cards or sheets.
            3.   The total price of bingo faces played with an electronic bingo
aid shall be equal to the total price of the same number of bingo faces played
with a paper bingo card or sheet sold at the same bingo session but without an
electronic bingo aid.
            4.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be part of an electronic
network other than a network that includes only bingo aids and devices that are
located on the premises at which the bingo is being conducted or be interactive
with any device not located on the premises at which the bingo is being
conducted.
            5.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to participate in bingo
that is conducted at a location other than the location at which the bingo
session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
            6.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to provide for the
input of numbers and letters announced by a bingo caller other than the bingo
caller who physically calls the numbers and letters at the location at which
the bingo session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
         (b)   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 119 that govern the use of electronic bingo aids. The rules may include
a requirement that an electronic bingo aid be capable of being audited by the
Attorney General to verify the number of bingo cards or sheets played during
each bingo session.
      (12)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, to be under 18 years of age to play bingo described in division (1)
of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01.
   (D)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section,
no charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator, and no bingo
game operator shall receive or accept, any commission, wage, salary, reward,
tip, donation, gratuity, or other form of compensation, directly or indirectly,
regardless of the source, for conducting bingo or providing other work or labor
at the site of bingo during a bingo session.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section, no
charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator any commission,
wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity, or other form of compensation,
directly or indirectly regardless of the source, for conducting instant bingo,
electronic instant bingo, or both other than at a bingo session at the site of
instant bingo, electronic instant bingo, or both other than at a bingo session.
      (3)   Nothing in this division (D) of this section prohibits an employee
of a fraternal organization, veteran’s organization, or sporting organization
from selling instant bingo tickets or cards to the organization’s members or
invited guests, as long as no portion of the employee’s compensation is paid
from any receipts of bingo.
   (E)   Notwithstanding division (B)(1) of this section, a charitable
organization that, prior to December 6, 1977, has entered into written
agreements for the lease of premises it owns to another charitable organization
or other charitable organizations for the conducting of bingo sessions so that
more than two bingo sessions are conducted per calendar week on the premises,
and a person that is not a charitable organization and that, prior to December
6, 1977, has entered into written agreements for the lease of premises it owns
to charitable organizations for the conducting of more than two bingo sessions
per calendar week on the premises, may continue to lease the premises to those
charitable organizations, provided that no more than four sessions are
conducted per calendar week, that the lessor organization or person has
notified the Attorney General in writing of the organizations that will conduct
the sessions and the days of the week and the times of the day on which the
sessions will be conducted, that the initial lease entered into with each
organization that will conduct the sessions was filed with the Attorney General
prior to December 6, 1977, and that each organization that will conduct the
sessions was issued a license to conduct bingo games by the Attorney General
prior to December 6, 1977.
   (F)   This section does not prohibit a bingo licensed charitable
organization or a game operator from giving any person an instant bingo ticket
as a prize.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of
illegally conducting a bingo game, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11), or (D)
of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously
has been convicted of a violation of division (A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2),
(B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11), or (D) of this section, a violation of division
(A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11), or (D) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Whoever violates division (C)(12)
of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (C)(12) of this
section, a violation of division (C)(12) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.09)
§ 134.07 RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo or a game of chance
pursuant to R.C. § 2915.02(D), or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, shall fail to maintain the following records for at least three
years from the date on which the bingo or game of chance is conducted:
      (1)   An itemized list of the gross receipts of each bingo session, each
game of instant bingo by serial number, each electronic instant bingo game by
serial number, each raffle, each punch board game, and each game of chance, and
an itemized list of the gross profits of each game of instant bingo by serial
number and each electronic instant bingo game by serial number;
      (2)   An itemized list of all expenses, other than prizes, that are
incurred in conducting bingo, the name of each person to whom the expenses are
paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses;
      (3)   A list of all prizes awarded during each bingo session, each
raffle, each punch board game, and each game of chance conducted by the
charitable organization, the total prizes awarded from each game of instant
bingo by serial number and each electronic instant bingo game by serial number,
and the name, address, and social security number of all persons who are
winners of prizes of $600 or more in value;
      (4)   An itemized list of the recipients of the net profit of bingo or
game of chance, including the name and address of each recipient to whom the
money is distributed, and if the organization uses the net profit of bingo, or
the money or assets received from a game of chance, for any charitable or other
purpose set forth in R.C. § 2915.01(V), R.C. § 2915.02(D), or R.C. § 2915.101,
a list of each purpose and an itemized list of each expenditure for each
purpose;
      (5)   The number of persons who participate in any bingo session or game
of chance that is conducted by the charitable organization;
      (6)   A list of receipts from the sale of food and beverages by the
charitable organization or one of its auxiliary units or societies, if the
receipts were excluded from “gross receipts” under R.C. § 2915.01(T);
      (7)   An itemized list of all expenses incurred at each bingo session,
each raffle, each punch board game, or each game of instant bingo or electronic
instant bingo conducted by the charitable organization in the sale of food and
beverages by the charitable organization or by an auxiliary unit or society of
the charitable organization, the name of each person to whom the expenses are
paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses.
   (B)   A charitable organization shall keep the records that it is required
to maintain pursuant to division (A) of this section at its principal place of
business in this state or at its headquarters in this state and shall notify
the Attorney General of the location at which those records are kept.
   (C)   The gross profit from each bingo session or game described in division
(1) or (2) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall be deposited
into a checking account devoted exclusively to the bingo session or game.
Payments for allowable expenses incurred in conducting the bingo session or
game and payments to recipients of some or all of the net profit of the bingo
session or game shall be made only by checks or electronic fund transfers drawn
on the bingo session or game account.
   (D)   Each charitable organization shall conduct and record an inventory of
all of its bingo supplies as of the first day of November of each year.
   (E)   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with R.C. Chapter
119 that establish standards of accounting, record keeping, and reporting to
ensure that gross receipts from bingo or games of chance are properly accounted
for.
   (F)   A distributor shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing to another person bingo supplies for use in this state.
The record shall include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name of the manufacturer from which the distributor purchased
the bingo supplies and the date of the purchase;
      (2)   The name and address of the charitable organization or other
distributor to which the bingo supplies were sold or otherwise provided;
      (3)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies;
      (4)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each charitable organization.
   (G)   A manufacturer shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing bingo supplies for use in this state. The record shall
include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name and address of the distributor to whom the bingo supplies
were sold or otherwise provided;
      (2)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies, including
serial numbers;
      (3)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each distributor.
   (H)   (1)   The Attorney General or any law enforcement agency may do all of
the following:
         (a)   Investigate any charitable organization, distributor, or
manufacturer or any officer, agent, trustee, member, or employee of the
organization, distributor, or manufacturer;
         (b)   Examine the accounts and records of the charitable organization,
distributor, or manufacturer or of any officer, agent, trustee, member, or
employee of the organization, distributor, or manufacturer;
         (c)   Conduct inspections, audits, and observations of bingo or games
of chance;
         (d)   Conduct inspections of the premises where bingo or games of
chance are conducted or where bingo supplies are manufactured or distributed;
         (e)   Take any other necessary and reasonable action to determine if a
violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 has occurred
and to determine whether R.C. § 2915.11, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, has been complied with.
      (2)   If any law enforcement agency has reasonable grounds to believe
that a charitable organization, distributor, or manufacturer or an officer,
agent, trustee, member, or employee of the organization, distributor, or
manufacturer has violated any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915,
the law enforcement agency may proceed by action in the proper court to enforce
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915, provided that the law enforcement agency
shall give written notice to the Attorney General when commencing an action as
described in this division.
   (I)   No person shall destroy, alter, conceal, withhold, or deny access to
any accounts or records of a charitable organization, distributor, or
manufacturer that have been requested for examination, or obstruct, impede, or
interfere with any inspection, audit, or observation of bingo or a game of
chance, of premises where bingo or a game of chance is conducted, or of
premises where bingo supplies are manufactured or distributed, or refuse to
comply with any reasonable request of, or obstruct, impede, or interfere with
any other reasonable action undertaken by, the Attorney General or a law
enforcement agency pursuant to division (H) of this section.
   (J)   Whoever violates division (A) or (I) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2915.10)
§ 134.08 REQUIREMENTS FOR BINGO GAME OPERATORS.
   (A)   No person shall be a bingo game operator unless the person is 18 years
of age or older.
   (B)   No person who has been convicted of a felony or a gambling offense in
any jurisdiction shall be a bingo game operator.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. Whoever violates division (B) of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2915.11)
§ 134.09 BINGO GAMES FOR AMUSEMENT ONLY.
   (A)   Sections 134.06 through 134.13 and 134.15 do not apply to bingo games
that are conducted for the purpose of amusement only. A bingo game is conducted
for the purpose of amusement only if it complies with all of the requirements
specified in either division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section.
      (1)   (a)   The participants do not pay any money or any other thing of
value, including an admission fee or any fee, for bingo cards or sheets,
objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in playing bingo, for the
privilege of participating in the bingo game, or to defray any costs of the
game, or pay tips or make donations during or immediately before or after the
bingo game.
         (b)   All prizes awarded during the course of the game are non-
monetary, and in the form of merchandise, goods, or entitlement to goods or
services only, and the total value of all prizes awarded during the game is
less than $100.
         (c)   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity,
or other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         (d)   The bingo game is not conducted either during or within ten
hours of any of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to R.C. §§ 2915.07 through 2915.11 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
            2.   A scheme or game of chance, or bingo described in R.C. §
2915.01(O)(2).
         (e)   The number of players participating in the bingo game does not
exceed 50.
      (2)   (a)   The participants do not pay money or any other thing of value
as an admission fee, and no participant is charged more than $0.25 to purchase
a bingo card or sheet, objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in
playing bingo.
         (b)   The total amount of money paid by all of the participants for
bingo cards or sheets, objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in
playing bingo does not exceed $100.
         (c)   All of the money paid for bingo cards or sheets, objects to
cover spaces, or other devices used in playing bingo is used only to pay
winners monetary and nonmonetary prizes and to provide refreshments.
         (d)   The total value of all prizes awarded during the game does not
exceed $100.
         (e)   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity,
or other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         (f)   The bingo game is not conducted during or within ten hours of
either of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to R.C. §§ 2915.07 through 2915.15 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance;
            2.   A scheme of chance or a game of chance, or bingo described in
R.C. § 2915.01(O)(2).
         (g)   All of the participants reside at the premises where the bingo
game is conducted.
         (h)   The bingo games are conducted on different days of the week and
not more than twice in a calendar week.
   (B)   The Attorney General or any local law enforcement agency may
investigate the conduct of a bingo game that purportedly is conducted for
purposes of amusement only if there is reason to believe that the purported
amusement bingo game does not comply with the requirements of either division
(A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section. A local law enforcement agency may proceed by
action in the proper court to enforce this section if the local law enforcement
agency gives written notice to the Attorney General when commencing the action.
(R.C. § 2915.12)
§ 134.10 PROHIBITIONS WHERE INSTANT BINGO GAME IS CONDUCTED.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts instant bingo shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 2915.09(A)(1), (A)
(2), and (A)(3), or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   Conduct instant bingo unless either of the following applies:
         (a)   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a), is
described in IRC § 501(c)(3), is a charitable organization as defined in R.C. §
2915.01, is in good standing in the state pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08, and is in
compliance with R.C. Chapter 1716;
         (b)   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a), is
described in IRC § 501(c)(7), (c)(8), (c)(10), or (c)(19) or is a veteran’s
organization described in IRC § 501(c)(4), and conducts instant bingo under
R.C. § 2915.13.
      (3)   Conduct instant bingo on any day, at any time, or at any premises
not specified on the organization’s license issued pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08;
      (4)   Permit any person whom the organization knows or should have known
has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction to be a
bingo game operator in the conduct of instant bingo;
      (5)   Purchase or lease supplies used to conduct instant bingo or punch
board games from any person except a distributor licensed under R.C. §
2915.081;
      (6)   Sell or provide any instant bingo ticket or card for a price
different from the price printed on it by the manufacturer on either the
instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare;
      (7)   Sell an instant bingo ticket or card to a person under 18 years of
age;
      (8)   Fail to keep unsold instant bingo tickets or cards for less than
three years;
      (9)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting
instant bingo that is conducted by the organization or for preparing, selling,
or serving food or beverages at the site of the instant bingo game, permit any
auxiliary unit or society of the organization to pay compensation to any bingo
game operator who prepares, sells, or serves food or beverages at an instant
bingo game conducted by the organization, or permit any auxiliary unit or
society of the organization to prepare, sell, or serve food or beverages at an
instant bingo game conducted by the organization, if the auxiliary unit or
society pays any compensation to the bingo game operators who prepare, sell, or
serve the food or beverages;
      (10)   Pay fees to any person for any services performed in relation to
an instant bingo game, except as provided in R.C. § 2915.093(D);
      (11)   Pay fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in an instant bingo game;
      (12)   (a)   Allow instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold to bingo
game operators at a premises at which the organization sells instant bingo
tickets or cards or to be sold to employees of a D permit holder who are
working at a premises at which instant bingo tickets or cards are sold;
         (b)   Division (A)(12)(a) of this section does not prohibit a licensed
charitable organization or a bingo game operator from giving any person an
instant bingo ticket as a prize in place of a cash prize won by a participant
in an instant bingo game. In no case shall an instant bingo ticket or card be
sold or provided for a price different from the price printed on it by the
manufacturer on either the instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare.
      (13)   Fail to display its bingo license, and the serial numbers of the
deal of instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold, conspicuously at each
premises at which it sells instant bingo tickets or cards;
      (14)   Possess a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards that was not
purchased from a distributor licensed under R.C. § 2915.081 as reflected on an
invoice issued by the distributor that contains all of the information required
by R.C. § 2915.10(E);
      (15)   Fail, once it opens a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards, to
continue to sell the tickets or cards in that deal until the tickets or cards
with the top two highest tiers of prizes in that deal are sold;
      (16)   Possess bingo supplies that were not obtained in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (B)   A charitable organization may purchase, lease, or use instant bingo
ticket dispensers to sell instant bingo tickets or cards.
   (C)   Pursuant to R.C. § 2915.091(C), the Attorney General may adopt rules
in accordance with R.C. Chapter 119 that govern the conduct of instant bingo by
charitable organizations.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section or a rule adopted under
division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, illegal instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (A) of this section or of such a rule adopted under
division (C) of this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.091)
§ 134.11 RAFFLE DRAWINGS.
   (A)   (1)   Subject to division (A)(2) of this section, a person or entity
may conduct a raffle to raise money for the person or entity and does not need
a license to conduct bingo in order to conduct a raffle drawing that is not for
profit if the person or entity is any of the following:
         (a)   Exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
         (b)   A school district, community school established under R.C.
Chapter 3314, STEM school established under R.C. Chapter 3326, college-
preparatory boarding school established under R.C. Chapter 3328, or chartered
nonpublic school;
         (c)   Exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c)(4), 501(c)(6), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10), or
501(c)(19).
      (2)   If a person or entity that is described in division (A)(1)(c) of
this section conducts a raffle, the person or entity shall distribute at least
50% of the net profit from the raffle to a charitable purpose described in R.C.
§ 2915.01(V) or to a department or agency of the federal government, the state,
or any political subdivision.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (A) of this section, no person shall
conduct a raffle drawing that is for profit or a raffle drawing that is not for
profit.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegal
conduct of a raffle. Except as otherwise provided in this division, illegal
conduct of a raffle is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (B) of this section,
illegal conduct of a raffle is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2915.092)
§ 134.12 INSTANT BINGO OTHER THAN AT BINGO SESSIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, RETAIL INCOME FROM ALL COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY
means the income that a person receives from the provision of goods, services,
or activities that are provided at the location where instant bingo other than
at a bingo session is conducted, including the sale of instant bingo tickets. A
religious organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §
501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3), at not more than one location at which
it conducts its charitable programs, may include donations from its members and
guests as retail income.
   (B)   (1)   If a charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant
bingo other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued under R.C.
§ 2915.08, the charitable instant bingo organization shall enter into a written
contract with the owner or lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is
conducted to allow the owner or lessor to assist in the conduct of instant
bingo other than at a bingo session, identify each location where the instant
bingo other than at a bingo session is being conducted, and identify the owner
or lessor of each location.
      (2)   A charitable instant bingo organization that conducts instant bingo
other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued under R.C. §
2915.08 is not required to enter into a written contract with the owner or
lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is conducted provided that
the owner or lessor is not assisting in the conduct of the instant bingo other
than at a bingo session and provided that the conduct of the instant bingo
other than at a bingo session at that location is not more than five days per
calendar year and not more than ten hours per day.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (F) of this section, no charitable
instant bingo organization shall conduct instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at a location where the primary source of retail income from all
commercial activity at that location is the sale of instant bingo tickets.
   (D)   (1)   The owner or lessor of a location that enters into a contract
pursuant to division (B) of this section shall pay the full gross profit to the
charitable instant bingo organization, in return for the deal of instant bingo
tickets. The owner or lessor may retain the money that the owner or lessor
receives for selling the instant bingo tickets, provided, however, that after
the deal has been sold, the owner or lessor shall pay to the charitable instant
bingo organization the value of any unredeemed instant bingo prizes remaining
in the deal of instant bingo tickets.
      (2)   The charitable instant bingo organization shall pay 6% of the total
gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets for the purpose of
reimbursing the owner or lessor for expenses described in this division.
      (3)   As used in this division, EXPENSES means those items provided for
in R.C. § 2915.01(GG)(4), (GG)(5), (GG)(6), (GG)(7), (GG)(8), (GG)(12), and
(GG)(13) and that percentage of the owner’s or lessor’s rent for the location
where instant bingo is conducted. Expenses, in the aggregate, shall not exceed
6% of the total gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets.
      (4)   As used in this division, FULL GROSS PROFIT means the amount by
which the total receipts of all instant bingo tickets, if the deal has been
sold in full, exceeds the amount that would be paid out if all prizes were
redeemed.
   (E)   A charitable instant bingo organization shall provide the Attorney
General with all of the following information:
      (1)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has terminated a
contract entered into pursuant to division (B) of this section with an owner or
lessor of a location;
      (2)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has entered into a
written contract pursuant to division (B) of this section with a new owner or
lessor of a location;
      (3)   That the charitable instant bingo organization is aware of conduct
by the owner or lessor of a location at which instant bingo is conducted that
is in violation of R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (F)   Division (C) of this section does not apply to a volunteer
firefighter’s organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under
IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3), that conducts instant bingo
other than at a bingo session on the premises where the organization conducts
firefighter training, that has conducted instant bingo continuously for at
least five years prior to July 1, 2003, and that, during each of those five
years, had gross receipts of at least $1,500,000.
(R.C. § 2915.093)
   (G)   (1)   Subject to the requirements of R.C. §§ 2915.14 and 2915.15
concerning electronic instant bingo, a veteran’s organization, a fraternal
organization, or a sporting organization authorized to conduct a bingo session
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2915 may conduct instant bingo, electronic instant
bingo, or both other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued
under R.C. § 2915.08 if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to 12
hours during any day, provided that the sale does not begin earlier than 10:00
a.m. and ends not later than 2:00 a.m.
         (b)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to
its own premises and to its own members and invited guests.
         (c)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization is raising money for an organization that is described in IRC §
509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an
organization that maintains its principal place of business in this state, that
is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC
§ 501(c)(3), and that is in good standing in this state and executes a written
contract with that organization as required in division (G)(2) of this section.
      (2)   If a veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization authorized to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant bingo
pursuant to division (G)(1) of this section is raising money for another
organization that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is
either a governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal
place of business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c), and that is in good standing
in this state, the veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization shall execute a written contract with the organization that is
described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a governmental
unit or an organization that maintains its principal place of business in this
state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c), and that is in good standing in this state in order
to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant bingo. That contract shall
include a statement of the percentage of the net proceeds that the veteran’s,
fraternal, or sporting organization will be distributing to the organization
that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal place of
business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §
501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3), and that is in good standing in this
state.
      (3)   (a)   If a veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or
sporting organization authorized to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant
bingo pursuant to division (G)(1) of this section has been issued a liquor
permit under R.C. Chapter 4303, that permit may be subject to suspension,
revocation, or cancellation if the veteran’s organization, fraternal
organization, or sporting organization violates a provision of this chapter or
R.C. Chapter 2915.
         (b)   No veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that enters into a written contract pursuant to division (G)(2) of
this section shall violate any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915,
or permit, aid, or abet any other person in violating any provision of this
chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
      (4)   A veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization shall give all required proceeds earned from the conduct of
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to the organization with which the
veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting organization has
entered into a written contract.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (G) of this section is guilty of illegal
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided
in this division, illegal instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conduct is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of division (G) of this section, illegal instant bingo
or electronic instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.13)
§ 134.13 RESTRICTIONS ON OWNER OR LESSOR OF LOCATION AT INSTANT BINGO.
   (A)   No owner or lessor of a location shall assist a charitable instant
bingo organization in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at that location unless the owner or lessor has entered into a written
contract, as described in R.C. § 2915.093, with the charitable instant bingo
organization to assist in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session.
   (B)   The location of the lessor or owner shall be designated as a location
where the charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant bingo other
than at a bingo session.
   (C)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (A) of this section shall violate any provision of
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915, or permit, aid, or abet any other person in
violating any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (D)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (A) of this section shall violate the terms of the
contract.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty
of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, illegal instant bingo conduct is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of division (C) or
(D) of this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If an owner or lessor of a location knowingly, intentionally, or
recklessly violates division (C) or (D) of this section, any license that the
owner or lessor holds for the retail sale of any goods on the owner’s or
lessor’s premises that is issued by the state or a political subdivision is
subject to suspension, revocation, or payment of a monetary penalty at the
request of the Attorney General.
(R.C. § 2915.094)
§ 134.14 SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINES; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall give to another person any item described in division
(1), (2), (3), or (4) of the definition for “merchandise prize” in §
134.01 in exchange for a noncash prize, toy, or novelty received as a reward
for playing or operating a skill-based amusement machine or for a free or
reduced- price game won on a skill-based amusement machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of skill-based
amusement machine prohibited conduct. A violation of division (A) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree for each redemption of a prize
that is involved in the violation. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of division (A) of this section, a violation of that
division is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.06)
   (C)   Any regulation of skill-based amusement machines shall be governed by
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 and not by R.C. Chapter 1345.
(R.C. § 2915.061)
§ 134.15 ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No charitable organization shall conduct electronic instant bingo
unless all of the following are true:
      (1)   The organization is a veteran’s organization described in R.C. §
2915.01(J), or is a fraternal organization described in R.C. § 2915.01(L), and
the organization qualified as a veteran’s organization or fraternal
organization, as applicable, on or before June 30, 2021.
      (2)   The organization is a veteran’s organization described in IRC § 501
(c)(4) or is, and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a
determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the organization
is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a), and is described in
IRC § 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10), or 501(c)(19).
      (3)   The organization has not conducted a raffle in violation of R.C. §
2915.092(B) using an electronic raffle machine, as described in Ohio Veterans
and Fraternal Charitable Coalition v. DeWine, Case No. 13-CV-13610 (C.P.
Franklin Co. February 23, 2018), at any time on or after January 1, 2022.
   (B)   No charitable organization that conducts electronic instant bingo
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Possess an electronic instant bingo system that was not obtained in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 2915 or with any rule adopted under R.C. Chapter
2915;
      (2)   Conduct electronic instant bingo on any day, at any time, or on any
premises not specified on the organization’s type II or type III license issued
under R.C. § 2915.08;
      (3)   Hold more than one valid license to conduct electronic instant
bingo at any one time;
      (4)   Conduct electronic instant bingo on more than one premises or on
any premises other than the charitable organization’s principal place of
business;
      (5)   Operate more than ten electronic bingo systems at the premises on
which the charitable organization conducts electronic instant bingo under its
license;
      (6)   Fail to display both of the following conspicuously at the premises
on which the charitable organization conducts electronic instant bingo:
         (a)   The charitable organization’s bingo license;
         (b)   The serial number of each deal of electronic instant bingo
tickets being sold.
      (7)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should have
known, to be under 18 years of age to play electronic instant bingo;
      (8)   Sell or provide to any person an electronic instant bingo ticket
for a price different from the price displayed on the game flare for that deal,
except that the charitable organization may give a participant who wins an
electronic instant bingo game an electronic instant bingo ticket as a prize in
place of a cash prize;
      (9)   Fail, once an electronic instant bingo deal is begun, to continue
to sell tickets in that deal until all prizes have been awarded;
      (10)   Permit any person whom the organization knows, or should have
known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction
to be a bingo game operator in the conduct of electronic instant bingo;
      (11)   Permit a bingo game operator to play electronic instant bingo;
      (12)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(12)(b) of this
section, pay compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting electronic
instant bingo.
         (b)   Division (B)(12)(a) of this section does not prohibit an
employee of a veteran’s organization or fraternal organization from redeeming
electronic instant bingo tickets or vouchers for the organization’s members or
invited guests, so long as no portion of the employee’s compensation is paid
from any bingo receipts.
      (13)   Pay consulting fees to any person in relation to electronic
instant bingo.
   (C)   No person shall sell, offer to sell, or otherwise provide or offer to
provide an electronic instant bingo system to any person for use in this
municipality unless the electronic instant bingo system has been approved under
R.C. § 2915.15.
   (D)   Whoever knowingly violates division (A), (B), or (C) of this section
or a rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.14(D) is guilty of illegal electronic
instant bingo conduct. Illegal electronic instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree, except that if the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or state law, or of a rule adopted
under R.C. § 2915.14(D), illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.14)
CHAPTER 135: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
135.01   Definitions
   
135.02   Negligent homicide
   
135.03   Vehicular homicide; vehicular manslaughter; vehicular assault
   
135.04   Assault; negligent assault
   
135.05   Injury to persons by hunters
   
135.06   Menacing; aggravated menacing; menacing by stalking
   
135.07   Unlawful restraint
   
135.08   Unlawful collection of bodily substances
   
135.09   Coercion
   
135.10   Bigamy
   
135.11   Unlawful abortion; failure to perform viability testing; abortion
trafficking
   
135.12   Abortion trafficking
   
135.13   Nonsupport of dependents
   
135.14   Endangering children
   
135.15   Interference with custody; interference with support orders
   
135.16   Domestic violence
   
135.17   Hazing prohibited
   
135.18   Contributing to unruliness or delinquency of a child
   
135.19   Failure to provide for a person with a functional impairment
   
135.20   Patient abuse or neglect; patient endangerment; exceptions; false
statements; retaliation
   
135.21   Interference with right of person to engage in housing transactions
because of race, religion, or the like
   
135.22   Ethnic intimidation
   
135.23   Violating a protection order, consent agreement, anti-stalking
protection order or order issued by a court of another state
   
135.24   Adulteration of food
   
135.25   Illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products; transaction scans
   
135.26   Nonsmoking areas in places of public assembly
   
135.27   Spreading contagion
   
135.28   Abuse of a corpse
   
135.29   Curfew for minors
Statutory reference:
   Child care, misrepresentations by providers and failure to disclose death or
serious injuries, misdemeanors, see R.C. §§ 2919.223 et seq.
   Extortionate extension of credit, see R.C. §§ 2905.21 through 2905.24
   Failure to send child to school, see R.C. § 3321.38
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
   Reckless homicide, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.041
   Rights of victims of crimes, see R.C. Chapter 2930
§ 135.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of §§
135.01 through
135.06, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ANOTHER’S UNBORN or OTHER PERSON’S UNBORN. A member of the species Homo
sapiens who is or was carried in the womb of another during a period that
begins with fertilization and that continues unless and until live birth
occurs.
      UNLAWFUL TERMINATION OF ANOTHER’S PREGNANCY. Causing the death of an
unborn member of the species Homo sapiens who is or was carried in the womb of
another, as a result of injuries inflicted during the period that begins with
fertilization and that continues unless and until live birth occurs.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) of this section, in no case shall the
definitions of the terms “another’s unborn”, “other person’s unborn” and
“unlawful termination of another’s pregnancy” that are set forth in division
(A) of this section be applied or construed in any of the following manners:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(1) of this section, in
a manner so that the offense prohibits or is construed as prohibiting any
pregnant woman or her physician from performing an abortion with the consent of
the pregnant woman, with the consent of the pregnant woman implied by law in a
medical emergency, or with the approval of one otherwise authorized by law to
consent to medical treatment on behalf of the pregnant woman. An abortion that
violates the conditions described in the immediately preceding sentence may be
punished as any violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02, 2903.03, 2903.04,
2903.05, 2903.06, 2903.08, 2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13, 2903.14, 2903.21 or
2903.22, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, as applicable. An
abortion that does not violate the conditions described in the second
immediately preceding sentence but that does violate R.C. § 2919.12, 2919.13
(B), 2919.15, 2919.151, 2919.17 or 2919.18, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, may be punished as a violation of such section, as
applicable.
      (2)   In a manner so that the offense is applied or is construed as
applying to a woman based on an act or omission of the woman that occurs while
she is or was pregnant and that results in any of the following:
         (a)   Her delivery of a stillborn baby.
         (b)   Her causing, in any other manner, the death in utero of a
viable, unborn human that she is carrying.
         (c)   Her causing the death of her child who is born alive but who
dies from one or more injuries that are sustained while the child is a viable,
unborn human.
         (d)   Her causing her child who is born alive to sustain one or more
injuries while the child is a viable, unborn human.
         (e)   Her causing, threatening to cause, or attempting to cause, in
any other manner, an injury, illness, or other psychological illness or
condition, regardless of its duration or gravity, to a viable, unborn human
that she is carrying.
(R.C. § 2903.09)
§ 135.02 NEGLIGENT HOMICIDE.
   (A)   No person shall negligently cause the death of another or the unlawful
termination of another’s pregnancy by means of a deadly weapon or dangerous
ordnance, as defined in R.C. § 2923.11.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of negligent homicide, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2903.05)
Statutory reference:
   Reckless homicide, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.041
§ 135.03 VEHICULAR HOMICIDE; VEHICULAR MANSLAUGHTER; VEHICULAR ASSAULT.
   (A)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle, motorcycle, snowmobile, locomotive, watercraft, or aircraft,
shall cause the death of another or the unlawful termination of another’s
pregnancy in any of the following ways:
      (1)   (a)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
4511.19(A) or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
1547.11(A), or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         (c)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
4561.15(A)(3), or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   In one of the following ways:
         (a)   Recklessly;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a
construction zone, a reckless operation offense, provided that this division
applies only if the person whose death is caused or whose pregnancy is
unlawfully terminated is in the construction zone at the time of the offender’s
commission of the reckless operation offense in the construction zone and does
not apply as described in division (D) of this section.
      (3)   In one of the following ways:
         (a)   Negligently;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a
construction zone, a speeding offense, provided that this division applies only
if the person whose death is caused or whose pregnancy is unlawfully terminated
is in the construction zone at the time of the offender’s commission of the
speeding offense in the construction zone and does not apply as described in
division (D) of this section.
      (4)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of any provision
of any section contained in R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor or of a
municipal ordinance that, regardless of the penalty set by ordinance for the
violation, is substantially equivalent to any provision of any section
contained in R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of aggravated vehicular homicide, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(3) of this section is guilty of
vehicular homicide. Except as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular
homicide is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular homicide committed in
violation of division (A)(3) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if, at the time of the offense, the offender was driving
under a suspension or cancellation imposed under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other
provision of the Ohio Revised Code or was operating a motor vehicle or
motorcycle, did not have a valid driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege, and was not eligible for renewal of the offender’s driver’s license
or commercial driver’s license without examination under R.C. § 4507.10 or if
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation
of this section or any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault
offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class four suspension of
the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of
vehicular manslaughter. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
vehicular manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the second degree. Vehicular
manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the first degree if, at the time of the
offense, the offender was driving under a suspension or cancellation imposed
under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code or was
operating a motor vehicle or motorcycle, did not have a valid driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege, and was not eligible for renewal
of the offender’s driver’s license or commercial driver’s license without
examination under R.C. § 4507.10 or if the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section or any traffic-
related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class six suspension of
the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6) or, if the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section, any
traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense, or a traffic-
related murder, felonious assault, or attempted murder offense, a class four
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
   (C)   The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of at least 15 days on an
offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor violation of
division (A)(3)(b) of this section and may impose upon the offender a longer
jail term as authorized pursuant to R.C. § 2929.24.
   (D)   Divisions (A)(2)(b) and (A)(3)(b) of this section do not apply in a
particular construction zone unless signs of the type described in R.C. §
2903.081 are erected in that construction zone in accordance with the
guidelines and design specifications established by the Director of
Transportation under R.C. § 5501.27. The failure to erect signs of the type
described in R.C. § 2903.081 in a particular construction zone in accordance
with those guidelines and design specifications does not limit or affect the
application of division (A)(1), (A)(2)(a), (A)(3)(a), or (A)(4) of this section
in that construction zone or the prosecution of any person who violates any of
those divisions in that construction zone.
   (E)   (1)   As used in this section:
         CONSTRUCTION ZONE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5501.27.
         MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         MANDATORY PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
         RECKLESS OPERATION OFFENSE. Means a violation of R.C. § 4511.20 or a
municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to R.C. § 4511.20.
         SPEEDING OFFENSE. Means a violation of R.C. § 4511.21 or a municipal
ordinance pertaining to speed.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED HOMICIDE, MANSLAUGHTER, OR ASSAULT OFFENSE. Means a
violation of R.C. § 2903.04 in circumstances in which division (D) of that
section applies, a violation of R.C. § 2903.06 or 2903.08, or a violation of
R.C. § 2903.06, 2903.07, or 2903.08 as they existed prior to March 23, 2000.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED MURDER, FELONIOUS ASSAULT, OR ATTEMPTED MURDER
OFFENSE. Means a violation of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02 in circumstances
in which the offender used a motor vehicle as the means to commit the
violation, a violation of R.C. § 2903.11(A)(2) in circumstances in which the
deadly weapon used in the commission of the violation is a motor vehicle, or an
attempt to commit aggravated murder or murder in violation of R.C. § 2923.02 in
circumstances in which the offender used a motor vehicle as the means to
attempt to commit the aggravated murder or murder.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, when a penalty or suspension is
enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a prior
or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the specified
law or the specified offense includes any violation of any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this state, or current or former
law of this or another state or the United States.
(R.C. § 2903.06)
   (F)   Vehicular assault.
      (1)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle or motorcycle, shall cause serious physical harm to another
person or another’s unborn as the proximate result of committing, while
operating or participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in
a construction zone, a speeding offense, provided that this division applies
only if the person to whom the serious physical harm is caused or to whose
unborn the serious physical harm is caused is in the construction zone at the
time of the offender’s commission of the speeding offense in the construction
zone and does not apply as described in division (F)(4) of this section.
      (2)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular
assault committed in violation of division (F)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular assault committed in violation of
division (F)(1) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law if, at the time of the offense, the offender was driving under a
suspension imposed under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Ohio
Revised Code or if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (F)(1) of this section, R.C. § 2903.08, or
any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed, the court shall
impose upon the offender a class four suspension of the offender’s driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (3)   The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of at least seven days
on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor violation
of division (F)(1) of this section and may impose upon the offender a longer
jail term as authorized pursuant to R.C. § 2929.24.
      (4)   Division (F)(1) of this section does not apply in a particular
construction zone unless signs of the type described in R.C. § 2903.081 are
erected in that construction zone in accordance with the guidelines and design
specifications established by the Director of Transportation under R.C. §
5501.27.
      (5)   As used in this division (F):
         CONSTRUCTION ZONE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5501.27.
         MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         SPEEDING OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.06.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED HOMICIDE, MANSLAUGHTER, OR ASSAULT OFFENSE. Has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.06.
      (6)   For the purposes of this division (F), when a penalty or suspension
is enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a
prior or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the
specified law or the specified offense includes any violation of any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this state, or
current or former law of another state or the United States.
(R.C. 2903.08(A)(3), (C)(3), (D)(3), (E) - (G))
Statutory reference:
   Court to suspend driver’s license, see R.C. §§ 4510.05 and 4510.07
   Vehicular assault and aggravated vehicular assault, felony offenses, see
R.C. § 2903.08
§ 135.04 ASSAULT; NEGLIGENT ASSAULT.
   (A)   Assault.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm
to another or to another’s unborn.
      (2)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to another
or to another’s unborn.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of assault. Except as provided in R.C. § 2903.13(C), assault is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (4)   If an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to assault when
it is a misdemeanor also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification as
described in R.C. § 2941.1423 (victim of the offense was a woman whom the
defendant knew was pregnant at the time of the offense) that was included in
the indictment, count in the indictment, or information charging the offense,
the court shall sentence the offender to a mandatory jail term as provided in
R.C. § 2929.24(F).
      (5)   A prosecution for a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this
section does not preclude a prosecution of a violation of any other section of
the Ohio Revised Code. One or more acts, a series of acts, or a course of
behavior that can be prosecuted under division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section
or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under division
(A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section, the other section of the Ohio Revised Code,
or both sections. However, if an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section and also is convicted of
or pleads guilty to a violation of R.C. § 2903.22, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, based on the same conduct involving the same
victim that was the basis of the violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this
section, the offenses are allied offenses of similar import under R.C. §
2941.25.
(R.C. § 2903.13)
   (B)   Negligent assault.
      (1)   No person shall negligently, by means of a deadly weapon or
dangerous ordnance as defined in R.C. § 2923.11, cause physical harm to another
or to another’s unborn.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
negligent assault, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 2903.14)
Cross-reference:
       Jurisdictional limitation on Mayor regarding violations of division (A)
of this section, see §
33.01(E)
Statutory reference:
       Aggravated and felonious assault, see R.C. §§ 2903.11 and 2903.12
       Felony assault offenses, see R.C. § 2903.13(C)
       Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
       Persons who may seek relief under anti-stalking protection order; ex
parte orders, see R.C. § 2903.214
       Protection order as pretrial condition of release, see R.C. § 2903.213
       Strangulation, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.18
       Vehicular assault and aggravated vehicular assault, felony offenses, see
R.C. § 2903.08
§ 135.05 INJURY TO PERSONS BY HUNTERS.
   (A)   No person in the act of hunting, pursuing, taking, or killing a wild
animal shall act in a negligent, careless, or reckless manner so as to injure
persons.
(R.C. § 1533.171(A))
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 1533.99(C))
Statutory reference:
   Violation, license revocation, see R.C. § 1533.171(B) through (E)
§ 135.06 MENACING; AGGRAVATED MENACING; MENACING BY STALKING.
   (A)   Menacing.
      (1)   (a)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the
offender will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other
person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s immediate
family. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that the
offender will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other
person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s immediate
family, the other person’s belief may be based on words or conduct of the
offender that are directed at or identify a corporation, association, or other
organization that employs the other person or to which the other person
belongs.
         (b)   No person shall knowingly place or attempt to place another in
reasonable fear of physical harm or death by displaying a deadly weapon,
regardless of whether the deadly weapon displayed is operable or inoperable, if
either of the following applies:
            1.   The other person is an emergency service responder, the person
knows or reasonably should know that the other person is an emergency service
responder, and it is the person’s specific purpose to engage in the specified
conduct against an emergency service responder.
            2.   The other person is a family or household member or co-worker
of an emergency service responder, the person knows or reasonably should know
that the other person is a family or household member or co-worker of an
emergency service responder, and it is the person’s specific purpose to engage
in the specified conduct against a family or household member or co-worker of
an emergency service responder.
      (2)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of menacing. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, menacing is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If the victim of the offense is an officer or employee of a public
children services agency or a private child placing agency and the offense
relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated performance
of official responsibilities or duties or if the victim of the offense is an
emergency service responder in the performance of the responder’s official
duties, menacing is one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(2)(b) of this
section, a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an
officer or employee of a public children services agency or private child
placing agency or an emergency service responder, and that prior offense
related to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated performance
of official responsibilities or duties or to the responder’s performance of the
responder’s official duties, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (3)   A prosecution for a violation of division (A) of this section does
not preclude a prosecution of a violation of any other section of the Ohio
Revised Code. One or more acts, a series of acts, or a course of behavior that
can be prosecuted under division (A) of this section or any other section of
the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under division (A) of this section, the
other section of the Ohio Revised Code, or both sections. However, if an
offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (A) of
this section and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of R.C. §
2903.13, or any substantially similar municipal ordinance, based on the same
conduct involving the same victim that was the basis of the violation of
division (A) of this section, the offenses are allied offenses of similar
import under R.C. § 2941.25.
      (4)   As used in this section:
         CO-WORKER. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 2903.13.
         EMERGENCY SERVICE RESPONDER. Has the same meanings as in R.C. §
2903.13.
         FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
2903.13.
         ORGANIZATION. Includes an entity that is a governmental employer.
(R.C. § 2903.22)
   (B)   Aggravated menacing.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the
offender will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of the
other person, such other person’s unborn, or a member of such other person’s
immediate family. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief
that the offender will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of
the other person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s
immediate family, the other person’s belief may be based on words or conduct of
the offender that are directed at or identify a corporation, association, or
other organization that employs the other person or to which the other person
belongs.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
aggravated menacing. Except as otherwise provided in this division (B)(2),
aggravated menacing is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the victim of the
offense is an officer or employee of a public children services agency or a
private child placing agency and the offense relates to the officer’s or
employee’s performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities
or duties, aggravated menacing is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an
officer or employee of a public children services agency or private child
placing agency, and that prior offense related to the officer’s or employee’s
performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties,
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   As used in this division (B), ORGANIZATION includes an entity that
is a governmental employer.
(R.C. § 2903.21)
   (C)   Menacing by stalking.
      (1)   (a)   No person by engaging in a pattern of conduct shall knowingly
cause another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to
the other person or a family or household member of the other person or cause
mental distress to the other person or a family or household member of the
other person. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that
the offender will cause physical harm to the other person or the other person’s
family or household member or mental distress to the other person or the other
person’s family or household member, the other person’s belief or mental
distress may be based on words or conduct of the offender that are directed at
or identify a corporation, association, or other organization that employs the
other person or to which the other person belongs.
         (b)   No person, through the use of any form of written communication
or any electronic method of remotely transferring information, including but
not limited to any computer, computer network, computer program, computer
system, or telecommunication device, shall post a message or use any
intentionally written or verbal graphic gesture with purpose to do either of
the following:
            1.   Violate division (C)(1)(a) of this section;
            2.   Urge or incite another to commit a violation of division (C)
(1)(a) of this section.
         (c)   No person, with a sexual motivation, shall violate division (C)
(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this section.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C)(1) of this section is guilty of
menacing by stalking.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2)(b) of this
section, menacing by stalking is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   Menacing by stalking is a felony, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law, if any of the following applies:
            1.   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 2903.211 or a violation of R.C. § 2911.211, or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to either of these offenses.
            2.   In committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b)
or (C)(1)(c) of this section, the offender made a threat of physical harm to or
against the victim, or as a result of an offense committed under division (C)
(1)(b) or (C)(1)(c) of this section, a third person induced by the offender’s
posted message made a threat of physical harm to or against the victim.
            3.   In committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b)
or (C)(1)(c) of this section, the offender trespassed on the land or premises
where the victim lives, is employed, or attends school, or as a result of an
offense committed under division (C)(1)(b) or (C)(1)(c) of this section, a
third person induced by the offender’s posted message trespassed on the land or
premises where the victim lives, is employed, or attends school.
            4.   The victim of the offense is a minor.
            5.   The offender has a history of violence towards the victim or
any other person or a history of other violent acts towards the victim or any
other person.
            6.   While committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a) of this
section or a violation of division (C)(1)(c) of this section based on conduct
in violation of division (C)(1)(a) of this section, the offender had a deadly
weapon on or about the offender’s person or under the offender’s control.
Division (C)(2)(b)6. of this section does not apply in determining the penalty
for a violation of division (C)(1)(b) of this section or a violation of
division (C)(1)(c) of this section based on conduct in violation of division
(C)(1)(b) of this section.
            7.   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
the subject of a protection order issued under R.C. § 2903.213 or R.C. §
2903.214, regardless of whether or not the person to be protected under the
order is the victim of the offense or another person.
            8.   In committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b)
or (C)(1)(c) of this section, the offender caused serious physical harm to the
premises at which the victim resides, to the real property on which that
premises is located, or to any personal property located on that premises, or
as a result of an offense committed under division (C)(1)(b) of this section or
an offense committed under division (C)(1)(c) of this section based on a
violation of division (C)(1)(b) of this section, a third person induced by the
offender’s posted message caused serious physical harm to that premises, that
real property, or any personal property on that premises.
            9.   Prior to committing the offense, the offender had been
determined to represent a substantial risk of physical harm to others as
manifested by evidence of then-recent homicidal or other violent behavior,
evidence of then-recent threats that placed another in reasonable fear of
violent behavior and serious harm, or other evidence of then-present
dangerousness.
            10.   The victim of the offense is an officer or employee of a
public children services agency or a private child placing agency and the
offense relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated
performance of official responsibilities or duties.
            11.   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an
officer or employee of a public children services agency or private child
placing agency, and that prior offense related to the officer’s or employee’s
performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties.
      (3)   R.C. § 2919.271 applies in relation to a defendant charged with a
violation of this section.
      (4)   As used in division (C) of this section:
         COMPUTER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         COMPUTER NETWORK. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         COMPUTER PROGRAM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         COMPUTER SYSTEM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
         EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency
medical services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
         FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
            1.   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
person against whom the act prohibited in division (C)(1)(a) of this section is
committed:
               a.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse
of the person;
               b.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the person, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the person;
               c.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse,
or former spouse of the person, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
person.
            2.   The natural parent of any child of whom the person against
whom the act prohibited in division (C)(1)(a) of this section is committed is
the other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
         MENTAL DISTRESS. Means any of the following:
            1.   Any mental illness or condition that involves some temporary
substantial incapacity;
            2.   Any mental illness or condition that would normally require
psychiatric treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health
services, whether or not any person requested or received psychiatric
treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health services.
         ORGANIZATION. Includes an entity that is a governmental employer.
         PATTERN OF CONDUCT. Means two or more actions or incidents closely
related in time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any
of those actions or incidents, or two or more actions or incidents closely
related in time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any
of those actions or incidents, directed at one or more persons employed by or
belonging to the same corporation, association, or other organization. Actions
or incidents that prevent, obstruct, or delay the performance by a public
official, firefighter, rescuer, emergency medical services person, or emergency
facility person of any authorized act within the public official’s,
firefighter’s, rescuer’s, emergency medical services person’s, or emergency
facility person’s official capacity, or the posting of messages, use of
intentionally written or verbal graphic gestures, or receipt of information or
data through the use of any form of written communication or an electronic
method of remotely transferring information, including but not limited to a
computer, computer network, computer program, computer system, or
telecommunications device, may constitute a “pattern of conduct”.
         PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has lived
with the person against whom the act prohibited in division (C)(1)(a) of this
section is committed in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise is
cohabiting with that person, or who otherwise has cohabited with the person
within five years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in
question.
         POST A MESSAGE. Means transferring, sending, posting, publishing,
disseminating, or otherwise communicating, or attempting to transfer, send,
post, publish, disseminate, or otherwise communicate, any message or
information, whether truthful or untruthful, about an individual, and whether
done under one’s own name, under the name of another, or while impersonating
another.
         PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.01.
         SEXUAL MOTIVATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2971.01.
         TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         THIRD PERSON. Means, in relation to conduct as described in division
(C)(1)(b) of this section, an individual who is neither the offender nor the
victim of the conduct.
      (5)   The prosecution does not need to prove in a prosecution under
division (C) of this section that a person requested or received psychiatric
treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health services in order to
show that the person was caused mental distress as described in division (2) of
the definition for “mental distress” in this section.
      (6)   (a)   Division (C) of this section does not apply to a person
solely because the person provided access or connection to or from an
electronic method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s
control, including having provided capabilities that are incidental to
providing access or connection to or from the electronic method of remotely
transferring the information, and that do not include the creation of the
content of the material that is the subject of the access or connection. In
addition, any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic
method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control
shall not be liable for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the
receipt or transmission through its service of any information that it believes
is or will be sent in violation of division (C) of this section.
         (b)   Division (C)(6)(a) of this section does not create an
affirmative duty for any person providing access or connection to or from an
electronic method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s
control to block the receipt or transmission through its service of any
information that it believes is or will be sent in violation of division (C) of
this section except as otherwise provided by law.
         (c)   Division (C)(6)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of division (C) of this section or who
knowingly advertises the availability of material of that nature.
(R.C. § 2903.211)
   Violation of protection orders, see §
135.23
Statutory reference:
   Authority of corporations to seek protection orders in certain
circumstances, see R.C. § 2903.215
   Conditions of bail for violators, see R.C. § 2903.212
   Persons who may seek relief under anti-stalking protection order; ex parte
orders, see R.C. § 2903.214
   Protection order as pretrial condition of release, see R.C. § 2903.213
§ 135.07 UNLAWFUL RESTRAINT.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly restrain
another of the other person’s liberty.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so and with a sexual motivation,
shall knowingly restrain another of the other person’s liberty.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful restraint, a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, SEXUAL MOTIVATION has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2971.01.
(R.C. § 2905.03)
§ 135.08 UNLAWFUL COLLECTION OF BODILY SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly collect any blood, urine, tissue, or other
bodily substance of another person without privilege or consent to do so.
   (B)   (1)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
         (a)   The collection of any bodily substance of a person by a law
enforcement officer, or by another person pursuant to the direction or advice
of a law enforcement officer, for purposes of a chemical test or tests of the
substance under R.C. § 1547.111(A)(1) or R.C. § 4511.191(A)(2) to determine the
alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or
combination content of the bodily substance;
         (b)   The collection of any bodily substance of a person by a peace
officer, or by another person pursuant to the direction or advice of a peace
officer, for purposes of a test or tests of the substance as provided in R.C. §
4506.17(A) to determine the person’s alcohol concentration or the presence of
any controlled substance or metabolite of a controlled substance.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section shall not be construed as implying
that the persons identified in divisions (B)(1)(a) and (b) of this section do
not have privilege to collect the bodily substance of another person as
described in those divisions or as limiting the definition of “privilege” set
forth in R.C. § 2901.01.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of unlawful
collection of a bodily substance. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, unlawful collection of a bodily substance is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, unlawful collection of a bodily
substance is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.15)
§ 135.09 COERCION.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to coerce another into taking or refraining
from action concerning which the other person has a legal freedom of choice,
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Threaten to commit any offense.
      (2)   Utter or threaten any slander against any person.
      (3)   Expose or threaten to expose any matter tending to subject any
person to hatred, contempt, or ridicule, or to damage any person’s personal or
business repute, or to impair any person’s credit.
      (4)   Institute or threaten criminal proceedings against any person.
      (5)   Take or withhold, or threaten to take or withhold official action,
or cause or threaten to cause official action to be taken or withheld.
   (B)   Divisions (A)(4) and (A)(5) of this section shall not be construed to
prohibit a prosecutor or court from doing any of the following in good faith
and in the interests of justice:
      (1)   Offering or agreeing to grant, or granting immunity from
prosecution pursuant to R.C. § 2945.44.
      (2)   In return for a plea of guilty to one or more offenses charged or
to one or more other or lesser offenses, or in return for the testimony of the
accused in a case to which the accused is not a party, offering or agreeing to
dismiss, or dismissing one or more charges pending against an accused, or
offering or agreeing to impose, or imposing a certain sentence or modification
of sentence.
      (3)   Imposing a community control sanction on certain conditions,
including without limitation requiring the offender to make restitution or
redress to the victim of the offense.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3), (A)
(4), or (A)(5) of this section that the actor’s conduct was a reasonable
response to the circumstances which occasioned it, and that the actor’s purpose
was limited to any of the following:
      (1)   Compelling another to refrain from misconduct or to desist from
further misconduct.
      (2)   Preventing or redressing a wrong or injustice.
      (3)   Preventing another from taking action for which the actor
reasonably believed the other person to be disqualified.
      (4)   Compelling another to take action which the actor reasonably
believed the other person to be under a duty to take.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of coercion, a misdemeanor of
the second degree.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      COMMUNITY CONTROL SANCTION has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      THREAT includes a direct threat and a threat by innuendo.
(R.C. § 2905.12)
§ 135.10 BIGAMY.
   (A)   No married person shall marry another or continue to cohabit with such
other person in this municipality.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
actor’s spouse was continuously absent for five years immediately preceding the
purported subsequent marriage, and was not known by the actor to be alive
within that time.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of bigamy, a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
(R.C. § 2919.01)
§ 135.11 UNLAWFUL ABORTION; FAILURE TO PERFORM VIABILITY TESTING; ABORTION
TRAFFICKING.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ABORTION. Means the purposeful termination of a human pregnancy by any
person, including the pregnant woman herself, with an intention other than to
produce a live birth or to remove a dead fetus or embryo.
(R.C. § 2919.11)
      EMANCIPATED. A minor shall be considered emancipated if the minor has
married, entered the armed services of the United States, become employed and
self-subsisting, or has otherwise become independent from the care and control
of her parent, guardian or custodian.
      UNEMANCIPATED. Means a woman who is unmarried and under 18 years of age
who has not entered the armed services of the United States, has not become
employed and self-subsisting, or has not otherwise become independent from the
care and control of her parent, guardian, or custodian.
   (B)   No person shall perform or induce an abortion without the informed
consent of the pregnant woman.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly perform or induce an abortion upon a
pregnant minor unless one of the following is the case:
      (1)   The attending physician has secured the informed written consent of
the minor and one parent, guardian or custodian;
      (2)   The minor is emancipated and the attending physician has received
her informed written consent;
      (3)   The minor has been authorized to consent to the abortion by a court
order issued pursuant to R.C. § 2919.121(C) and the attending physician has
received her informed written consent; or
      (4)    The court has given its consent in accordance with R.C. § 2919.121
(C) and the minor is having the abortion willingly.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly perform or induce an abortion upon a woman
who is pregnant, unmarried, under 18 years of age, and unemancipated unless at
least one of the circumstances enumerated in R.C. § 2919.12(B) applies.
   (E)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (D) of
this section that the pregnant woman provided the person who performed or
induced the abortion with false, misleading, or incorrect information about her
age, marital status, or emancipation, about the age of the brother or sister to
whom she requested notice to be given as a specified relative instead of one of
her parents, her guardian, or her custodian, or about the last known address of
either of her parents, her guardian, her custodian, or a specified brother,
sister, stepparent, or grandparent to whom she requested notice be given and
the person who performed or induced the abortion did not otherwise have
reasonable cause to believe the pregnant woman was under 18 years of age,
unmarried, or unemancipated, to believe that the age of the brother or sister
to whom she requested notice be given as a specified relative instead of one of
her parents, her guardian, or her custodian was not 21 years of age, or to
believe that the last known address of either of her parents, her guardian, her
custodian, or a specified brother, sister, stepparent, or grandparent to whom
she requested notice be given was incorrect.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that
compliance with the requirements of this section was not possible because an
immediate threat of serious risk to the life or physical health of the pregnant
woman or pregnant minor from the continuation of her pregnancy created an
emergency necessitating the immediate performance or inducement of an abortion.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful abortion. A
violation of division (B), (C) or (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree on the first offense and a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is liable to the pregnant woman or
pregnant minor, and her parents, guardian, or custodian for civil, compensatory
and exemplary damages.
(R.C. §§ 2919.12, 2919.121)
   (H)   (1)   Division (C) of this section applies in lieu of division (D) of
this section whenever its operation is not enjoined. If division (C) of this
section is enjoined, division (D) of this section applies.
      (2)   If a person complies with the requirements of division (D) of this
section under the good faith belief that the application or enforcement of
division (C) of this section is subject to a restraining order or injunction,
good faith compliance shall constitute a complete defense to any civil,
criminal or professional disciplinary action brought under division (C) of this
section or R.C. § 2919.121.
      (3)   If a person complies with the requirements of division (C) of this
section under the good faith belief that it is not subject to a restraining
order or injunction, good faith compliance shall constitute a complete defense
to any civil, criminal or professional disciplinary action for failure to
comply with the requirements of division (D) of this section.
(R.C. § 2919.122)
   (I)   Failure to perform viability testing.
      (1)   Except in a medical emergency that prevents compliance with this
division, no physician shall perform or induce or attempt to perform or induce
an abortion on a pregnant woman after the beginning of the twentieth week of
gestation unless, prior to the performance or inducement of the abortion or the
attempt to perform or induce the abortion, the physician determines, in the
physician’s good faith medical judgment, that the unborn child is not viable,
and the physician makes that determination after performing a medical
examination of the pregnant woman and after performing or causing to be
performed those tests for assessing gestational age, weight, lung maturity, or
other tests that the physician, in that physician’s good faith medical
judgment, believes are necessary to determine whether an unborn child is
viable.
      (2)   Except in a medical emergency that prevents compliance with this
division, no physician shall perform or induce or attempt to perform or induce
an abortion on a pregnant woman after the beginning of the twentieth week of
gestation without first entering the determination made in division (I)(1) of
this section and the associated findings of the medical examination and tests
in the medical record of the pregnant woman.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (I) is guilty of failure to perform
viability testing, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (4)   The State Medical Board shall suspend a physician’s license to
practice medicine in this state for a period of not less than six months if the
physician violates this section.
(R.C. § 2919.18)
   (J)   Abortion trafficking.
      (1)   No person shall experiment upon or sell the product of human
conception which is aborted. Experiment does not include autopsies pursuant to
R.C. §§ 313.13 and 2108.50.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (j) of this section is guilty of abortion
trafficking, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2919.14)
Statutory reference:
    Judicial bypass, see R.C. § 2151.85
    Judicial consent and the right of a minor to consent, see R.C. § 2919.121
(C)
    Notice or consent requirements for unmarried minors, see R.C. § 2919.12(B)
§ 135.12 MISREPRESENTATION RELATING TO PROVISION OF CHILD CARE.
   (A)   No child care provider shall knowingly misrepresent any factor or
condition that relates to the provision of child care and that substantially
affects the health or safety of any child or children in that provider’s
facility or receiving child care from that provider to any of the following:
      (1)   A parent, guardian, custodian, or other person responsible for the
care of a child in the provider’s facility or receiving child care from the
provider;
      (2)   A parent, guardian, custodian, or other person responsible for the
care of a child who is considering the provider as a child care provider for
the child;
      (3)   A public official responsible for issuing the provider a license or
certificate to provide child care;
      (4)   A public official investigating or inquiring about the provision of
child care by the provider;
      (5)   A peace officer.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, “any factor or condition that
relates to the provision of child care” includes, but is not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   The person or persons who will provide child care to the child of
the parent, guardian, custodian, or other person responsible for the care of
the child, or to the children in general;
      (2)   The qualifications to provide child care of the child care
provider, of a person employed by the provider, or of a person who provides
child care as a volunteer;
      (3)   The number of children to whom child care is provided at one time
or the number of children receiving child care in the child care facility at
one time;
      (4)   The conditions or safety features of the child care facility;
      (5)   The area of the child care facility in which child care is
provided.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
misrepresentation by a child care provider, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2919.224)
§ 135.13 NONSUPPORT OF DEPENDENTS.
   (A)   No person shall abandon, or fail to provide adequate support to:
      (1)   The person’s spouse, as required by law;
      (2)   The person’s child who is under age 18, or the persons’s child with
a mental or physical disability who is under age 21;
      (3)   The person’s aged or infirm parent or adoptive parent, who from
lack of ability and means is unable to provide adequately for the parent’s own
support.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall abandon, or fail to provide support as
established by a court order to, another person whom, by court order or decree,
the person:
         (a)   Is legally obligated to support; or
         (b)   Was legally obligated to support, and an amount for support:
            1.   Was due and owing prior to the date the person’s duty to pay
current support terminated; and
            2.   Remains unpaid.
      (2)   The period of limitation under R.C. § 2901.13 applicable to
division (B)(1)(b) of this section shall begin to run on the date the person’s
duty to pay current support terminates.
   (C)   No person shall aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage, or contribute to
a child or a ward of the juvenile court becoming a dependent child, as defined
in R.C. § 2151.04, or a neglected child, as defined in R.C. § 2151.03.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of failure to provide
adequate support under division (A) of this section or a charge of failure to
provide support established by a court order under division (B) of this section
that the accused was unable to provide adequate support or the established
support, but did provide the support that was within his or her ability and
means.
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3) of this
section that the parent abandoned the accused or failed to support the accused
as required by law, while the accused was under age 18, or had a mental or
physical disability and was under age 21.
   (F)   It is not a defense to a charge under division (B) of this section
that the person whom a court has ordered the accused to support is being
adequately supported by someone other than the accused.
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of nonsupport of dependents, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (A)(2) or (B) of this section
or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or if the
offender has failed to provide support under division (A)(2) or (B) of this
section for a total accumulated period of 26 weeks out of 104 consecutive
weeks, whether or not the 26 weeks were consecutive, then a violation of
division (A)(2) or (B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to a felony violation of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or
(B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the offender is guilty of nonsupport of dependents by reason of
failing to provide support to his or her child as required by a child support
order issued on or after April 15, 1985, pursuant to R.C. § 2151.23, 2151.231,
2151.232, 2151.33, 3105.21, 3109.05, 3111.13, 3113.04, 3113.31, 3115.401, or
former R.C. § 3115.31, the court, in addition to any other sentence imposed,
shall assess all court costs arising out of the charge against the person and
require the person to pay any reasonable attorney’s fees of any adverse party
other than the state, as determined by the court, that arose in relation to the
charge.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
contributing to the nonsupport of dependents, a misdemeanor of the first
degree. Each day of a violation of division (C) of this section is a separate
offense.
(R.C. § 2919.21)
§ 135.14 ENDANGERING CHILDREN.
   (A)   No person, who is the parent, guardian, custodian, person having
custody or control, or person in loco parentis of a child under 18 years of age
or a child with a mental or physical disability under 21 years of age, shall
create a substantial risk to the health or safety of the child by violating a
duty of care, protection, or support. It is not a violation of a duty of care,
protection, or support under this division when the parent, guardian,
custodian, or person having custody or control of a child treats the physical
or mental illness or disability of the child by spiritual means through prayer
alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious body.
   (B)   No person shall do any of the following to a child under 18 years of
age or a child with a mental or physical disability under 21 years of age:
      (1)   Abuse the child.
      (2)   Torture or cruelly abuse the child.
      (3)   Administer corporal punishment or other physical disciplinary
measure, or physically restrain the child in a cruel manner or for a prolonged
period, which punishment, discipline or restraint is excessive under the
circumstances and creates a substantial risk of serious physical harm to the
child.
      (4)   Repeatedly administer unwarranted disciplinary measures to a child
when there is a substantial risk that such conduct, if continued, will
seriously impair or retard the child’s mental health or development.
      (5)   Entice, coerce, permit, encourage, compel, hire, employ, use, or
allow the child to act, model, or in any other way participate in, or be
photographed for, the production, presentation, dissemination, or advertisement
of any material or performance that the offender knows or reasonably should
know is obscene, is sexually oriented matter, or is nudity-oriented matter;
      (6)   Allow the child to be on the same parcel of real property and
within 100 feet of, or, in the case of more than one housing unit on the same
parcel of real property, in the same housing unit and within 100 feet of, any
act in violation of R.C. § 2925.04 or 2925.041 when the person knows that the
act is occurring, whether or not any person is prosecuted for or convicted of
the violation of R.C. § 2925.04 or 2925.041 that is the basis of the violation
of this division.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle, as defined by R.C. § 4511.01,
within the municipality and in violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, when one or more children under
18 years of age are in the vehicle. Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
a person may be convicted at the same trial or proceeding of a violation of
this division and a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that constitutes the basis of the charge of the
violation of this division. For purposes of R.C. §§ 4511.191 through 4511.197
and all related provisions of law, a person arrested for a violation of this
division shall be considered to be under arrest for operating a vehicle while
under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them or
for operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a
controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
      (2)   As used in division (C)(1) of this section:
         CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
         VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   (D)   (1)   Division (B)(5) of this section does not apply to any material
or performance that is produced, presented, or disseminated for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, religious, governmental, judicial, or other
proper purpose, by or to a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist,
teacher, person pursuing bona fide studies for research, librarian, member of
the clergy, prosecutor, judge, or other person having a proper interest in the
material or performance.
      (2)   Mistake of age is not a defense to a charge under division (B)(5)
of this section.
      (3)   In a prosecution under division (B)(5) of this section, the trier
of fact may infer that an actor, model, or participant in the material or
performance involved is a juvenile if the material or performance, through its
title, text, visual representation, or otherwise, represents or depicts the
actor, model, or participant as a juvenile.
      (4)   As used in this division and division (B)(5) of this section:
         MATERIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         NUDITY-ORIENTED MATTER means any material or performance that shows a
minor in a state of nudity and that, taken as a whole by the average person
applying contemporary community standards, appeals to the prurient interest.
         OBSCENE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         PERFORMANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         SEXUALLY ORIENTED MATTER. Means any material or performance that shows
a minor participating or engaging in sexual activity, masturbation, or
bestiality.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of endangering children.
      (1)   If the offender violates division (A) or (B)(1) of this section,
endangering children is one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(1)(b), (E)(1)(c) or
(E)(1)(d), a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of an offense
under this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, or of any offense involving neglect, abandonment, or contributing to
the delinquency of or physical abuse of a child, except as otherwise provided
in division (E)(1)(c) or (E)(1)(d) of this section, endangering children is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation is a violation of division (A) of this section
and results in serious physical harm to the child involved, endangering
children is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (d)   If the violation is a violation of division (B)(1) of this
section and results in serious physical harm to the child involved, endangering
children is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the offender violates division (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(5) or
(B)(6) of this section, endangering children is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the offender violates division (C) of this section, the offender
shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   Except as provided in (E)(3)(b) or (E)(3)(c), endangering
children in violation of division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
         (b)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the child
or if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this section
or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any
offense involving neglect, abandonment, or contributing to the delinquency of
or physical abuse of a child, except as otherwise provided in division (E)(3)
(c) of this section, endangering children in violation of division (C) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the child
and if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this
section, R.C. § 2903.06, 2903.08, 2919.22(C) or former R.C. § 2903.07 as it
existed prior to March 23, 2000, or R.C. § 2903.04, in a case in which the
offender was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that
section, endangering children in violation of division (C) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (d)   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine, or other
sentence, penalty or sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to
divisions (E)(3)(a), (E)(3)(b) or (E)(3)(c) of this section or pursuant to any
other provision of law, and in addition to any suspension of the offender’s
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege under R.C. Chapter 4506, 4509, 4510, or 4511, or any other
provision of law, the court also may impose upon the offender a class seven
suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(7).
         (e)   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine, or other
sentence, penalty or sanction imposed upon the offender pursuant to division
(E)(3)(a), (E)(3)(b), (E)(3)(c) or (E)(3)(d) of this section or pursuant to any
other provision of law for the violation of division (C) of this section, if as
a part of the same trial or proceeding the offender also is convicted of or
pleads guilty to a separate charge charging the violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A),
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the
charge of the violation of division (C) of this section, the offender also
shall be sentenced in accordance with R.C. § 4511.19, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, for that violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (F)   (1)   If a person violates division (C) of this section and if, at the
time of the violation, there were two or more children under 18 years of age in
the motor vehicle involved in the violation, the offender may be convicted of a
violation of division (C) of this section for each of the children, but the
court may sentence the offender for only one of the violations.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation
of division (C) of this section but the person is not also convicted of and
does not also plead guilty to a separate charge of violating R.C. § 4511.19(A),
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the
charge of the violation of division (C) of this section, both the following
apply:
            1.   For purposes of the provisions of R.C. § 4511.19, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that set forth the penalties and
sanctions for a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the conviction of or plea of guilty to the violation of
division (C) of this section shall not constitute a violation of R.C. § 4511.19
(A), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
            2.   For purposes of the provisions of law that refers to a
conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and that is not described in
division (F)(2)(a)1. of this section, the conviction of or plea of guilty to
the violation of division (C) of this section shall constitute a conviction or
plea of guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
         (b)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (C) of this section and the person also is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a separate charge of violating R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the charge of the
violation of division (C) of this section, the conviction of or plea of guilty
to the violation of division (C) of this section shall not constitute, for the
purposes of any provision of law that refers to a conviction of or a plea of
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, a conviction of or a plea of guilty to a violation of R.C.
§ 4511.19(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 2919.22(A) - (E), (H))
Statutory reference:
    Community service, requirements, see R.C. § 2919.22(F)
    License suspension, requirements, see R.C. § 2919.22(G)
    Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
§ 135.15 INTERFERENCE WITH CUSTODY; INTERFERENCE WITH SUPPORT ORDERS.
   (A)   Interference with custody.
      (1)   No person, knowing that he or she is without privilege to do so or
being reckless in that regard, shall entice, take, keep, or harbor a person
identified in division (A)(1)(a), (A)(1)(b) or (A)(1)(c) of this section from
the parent, guardian, or custodian of the person identified in division (A)(1)
(a), (A)(1)(b) or (A)(1)(c) of this section:
         (a)   A child under the age of 18, or a child with a mental or
physical disability under the age of 21;
         (b)   A person committed by law to an institution for delinquent,
unruly, neglected, abused, or dependent children;
         (c)   A person committed by law to an institution for persons with
mental illnesses or an institution for persons with intellectual disabilities.
      (2)   No person shall aid, abet, induce, cause, or encourage a child or a
ward of the juvenile court who has been committed to the custody of any person,
department, or public or private institution to leave the custody of that
person, department, or institution without legal consent.
      (3)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of enticing or taking
under division (A)(1)(a) of this section that the actor reasonably believed
that his or her conduct was necessary to preserve the child’s health or safety.
It is an affirmative defense to a charge of keeping or harboring under division
(A)(1) of this section that the actor in good faith gave notice to law
enforcement or judicial authorities within a reasonable time after the child or
committed person came under his or her shelter, protection, or influence.
      (4)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference with
custody.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this subdivision, a violation of
division (A)(1)(a) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the child who
is the subject of a violation of division (A)(1)(a) is removed from the state
or if the offender previously has been convicted of an offense under this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. If the child who is the subject of a violation of
division (A)(1)(a) suffers physical harm as a result of the violation, a
violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
         (b)   A violation of division (A)(1)(b) or (A)(1)(c) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         (c)   A violation of division (A)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. Each day of a violation of division (A)(2) is a separate
offense.
(R.C. § 2919.23)
   (B)   Interference with support orders.
      (1)   No person, by using physical harassment or threats of violence
against another person, shall interfere with the other person’s initiation or
continuance of, or attempt to prevent the other person from initiating or
continuing, an action to issue or modify a support order under R.C. Chapter
3115, or under R.C. § 2151.23, 2151.231, 2151.232, 2151.33, 2151.36, 2151.361,
2151.49, 3105.18, 3105.21, 3109.05, 3109.19, 3111.13, 3113.04, 3113.07, or
3113.31.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of interfering with an
action to issue or modify a support order, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
violation of this division (B) or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, or R.C. § 3111.19, interfering with an action to issue or
modify a support order is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
(R.C. § 2919.231)
§ 135.16 DOMESTIC VIOLENCE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm to a
family or household member.
   (B)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to a family or
household member.
   (C)   No person, by threat of force, shall knowingly cause a family or
household member to believe that the offender will cause imminent physical harm
to the family or household member.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of domestic violence,
and the court shall sentence the offender as provided in divisions (D)(2) to
(D)(5) of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3), (D)(4) or (D)(5)
of this section, a violation of division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor
of the fourth degree and a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section is
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(4) of this section, if
the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of domestic
violence, a violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or the United States that is substantially equivalent
to domestic violence, a violation of R.C. § 2903.14, 2909.06, 2909.07, 2911.12,
2911.211, or 2919.22 if the victim of the violation was a family or household
member at the time of the violation, a violation of an existing or former
municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or the United States that
is substantially equivalent to any of those sections if the victim of the
violation was a family or household member at the time of the commission of the
violation, or any offense of violence if the victim of the offense was a family
or household member at the time of the commission of the offense, a violation
of division (A) or (B) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law, and a violation of division (C) is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   If the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted
of two or more offenses of domestic violence or two or more violations or
offenses of the type described in division (D)(3) of this section involving a
person who was a family or household member at the time of the violations or
offenses, a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law, and a violation of division (C) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) or (D)(4) of this
section, if the offender knew that the victim of the violation was pregnant at
the time of the violation, a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law, and a violation of
division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no court or unit
of state or local government shall charge any fee, cost, deposit, or money in
connection with the filing of charges against a person alleging that the person
violated this section or a municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to this
section or in connection with the prosecution of any charges so filed.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
offender:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse as defined below, or a
former spouse of the offender;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the offender, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the offender;
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the offender, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
offender.
         (b)   The natural parent of any child of whom the offender is the
other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
      PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has lived with
the offender in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting
with the offender, or who otherwise has cohabited with the offender within five
years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in question.
(R.C. § 2919.25)
Cross-reference:
   Violation of protection orders, see §
135.23
Statutory reference:
   Temporary protection orders, see R.C. § 2919.26
   Violation of protection order or consent agreement, factors to consider,
bail, see R.C. § 2919.251
§ 135.17 HAZING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      HAZING. Means doing any act or coercing another, including the victim, to
do any act of initiation into any student or other organization or any act to
continue or reinstate membership in or affiliation with any student or other
organization that causes or creates a substantial risk of causing mental or
physical harm to any person, including coercing another to consume alcohol or a
drug of abuse, as defined in R.C. § 3719.011.
      ORGANIZATION. Includes a national or international organization with
which a fraternity or sorority is affiliated.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall recklessly participate in the hazing of another.
      (2)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post-secondary school or any other educational institution, public or private,
shall recklessly permit the hazing of any person associated with the
organization.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall recklessly participate in the hazing of another
when the hazing includes coerced consumption of alcohol or drugs of abuse
resulting in serious physical harm to the other person.
      (2)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post-secondary school or any other educational institution, public or private,
shall recklessly permit the hazing of any person associated with the
organization when the hazing includes coerced consumption of alcohol or drugs
of abuse resulting in serious physical harm to that person.
   (D)   Whoever violates divisions (B) or (C) of this section is guilty of
hazing. A violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the second degree. A violation of division (C)(1) or (C)(2) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.31)
   (E)   Reckless failure to immediately report knowledge of hazing.
      (1)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post-secondary school or any other public or private educational institution,
who is acting in an official and professional capacity shall recklessly fail to
immediately report the knowledge of hazing to a law enforcement agency in the
county in which the victim of hazing resides or in which the hazing is
occurring or has occurred.
      (2)   A violation of division (E)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree, except that the violation is a misdemeanor of the first
degree if the hazing causes serious physical harm.
(R.C. § 2903.311(B), (C))
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability for hazing, see R.C. § 2307.44
§ 135.18 CONTRIBUTING TO UNRULINESS OR DELINQUENCY OF A CHILD.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      DELINQUENT CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2152.02.
      UNRULY CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.022.
   (B)   No person, including a parent, guardian, or other custodian of a
child, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage, or contribute to a child or a
ward of the juvenile court becoming an unruly child or a delinquent child;
      (2)   Act in a way tending to cause a child or a ward of the juvenile
court to become an unruly child or a delinquent child;
      (3)   Act in a way that contributes to an adjudication of the child as a
delinquent child based on the child’s violation of a court order adjudicating
the child an unruly child for being an habitual truant;
      (4)   If the person is the parent, guardian, or custodian of a child who
has the duties under R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950 to register, register a new
residence address, and periodically verify a residence address, and, if
applicable, to send a notice of intent to reside, and if the child is not
emancipated, as defined in R.C. § 2919.121, fail to ensure that the child
complies with those duties under R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of contributing to the
unruliness or delinquency of a child, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each
day of violation of this section is a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2919.24)
Statutory reference:
   Failure to send child to school, see R.C. § 3321.38
§ 135.19 FAILURE TO PROVIDE FOR A PERSON WITH A FUNCTIONAL IMPAIRMENT.
   (A)   No caretaker shall knowingly fail to provide a person with a
functional impairment under the caretaker’s care with any treatment, care,
goods, or service that is necessary to maintain the health or safety of the
person with a functional impairment when this failure results in physical harm
or serious physical harm to the person with a functional impairment.
   (B)   No caretaker shall recklessly fail to provide a person with a
functional impairment under the caretaker’s care with any treatment, care,
goods, or service that is necessary to maintain the health or safety of the
person with a functional impairment when this failure results in serious
physical harm to the person with a functional impairment.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
knowingly failing to provide for a person with a functional impairment, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the person with a functional impairment
under the offender’s care suffers serious physical harm as a result of the
violation of this section, a violation of division (A) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
recklessly failing to provide for a person with a functional impairment, a
misdemeanor of the second degree. If the person with a functional impairment
under the offender’s care suffers serious physical harm as a result of the
violation of this section, a violation of division (B) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.16)
   (D)   As used in this section:
      CARETAKER. A person who assumes the duty to provide for the care and
protection of a person with a functional impairment on a voluntary basis, by
contract, through receipt of payment for care and protection, as a result of a
family relationship, or by order of a court of competent jurisdiction. The term
does not include a person who owns, operates, or administers, or who is an
agent or employee of, a care facility, as defined in R.C. § 2903.33.
      PERSON WITH A FUNCTIONAL IMPAIRMENT. Any person who has a physical or
mental impairment that prevents the person from providing for the person’s own
care or protection or whose infirmities caused by aging prevent the person from
providing for the person’s own care or protection.
(R.C. § 2903.10)
§ 135.20 PATIENT ABUSE OR NEGLECT; PATIENT ENDANGERMENT; EXCEPTIONS; FALSE
STATEMENTS; RETALIATION.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      ABUSE. Means knowingly causing physical harm or recklessly causing
serious physical harm to a person by physical contact with the person or by the
inappropriate use of a physical or chemical restraint, medication or isolation
on the person.
      CARE FACILITY. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any “home” as defined in R.C. § 3721.10.
         (b)   Any “residential facility” as defined in R.C. § 5119.34 or
5123.19.
         (c)   Any institution or facility operated or provided by the
Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services or by the Department of
Developmental Disabilities pursuant to R.C. §§ 5119.14 and 5123.03.
         (d)   Any unit of any hospital, as defined in R.C. § 3701.01, that
provided the same services as a nursing home, as defined in R.C. § 3721.01.
         (e)   Any institution, residence or facility that provides, for a
period of more than 24 hours, whether for consideration or not, accommodations
to one individual or two unrelated individuals who are dependent upon the
services of others.
      GROSS NEGLECT. Means knowingly failing to provide a person with any
treatment, care, goods or service that is necessary to maintain the health or
safety of the person when the failure results in serious physical harm to the
person.
      INAPPROPRIATE USE OF A PHYSICAL OR CHEMICAL RESTRAINT, MEDICATION OR
ISOLATION. Means the use of physical or chemical restraint, medication or
isolation as punishment, for staff convenience, excessively, as a substitute
for treatment, or in quantities that preclude habilitation and treatment.
      NEGLECT. Means recklessly failing to provide a person with any treatment,
care, goods or service that is necessary to maintain the health or safety of
the person when the failure results in serious physical harm to the person.
(R.C. § 2903.33)
   (B)   Patient abuse or neglect; spiritual treatment; defense.
      (1)   No person who owns, operates, or administers, or who is an agent or
employee of a care facility shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Commit abuse against a resident or patient of the facility.
         (b)   Commit gross neglect against a resident or patient of the
facility.
         (c)   Commit neglect against a resident or patient of the facility.
      (2)   (a)   A person who relies upon treatment by spiritual means through
prayer alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious
denomination, shall not be considered neglectful under division (B)(1)(c) of
this section for that reason alone.
         (b)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of gross neglect or
neglect under this section that the actor’s conduct was committed in good faith
solely because the actor was ordered to commit the conduct by a person with
supervisory authority over the actor.
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(a) is guilty of patient
abuse, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(b) is guilty of gross patient
neglect, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of, or pleaded guilty to, any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, gross patient
neglect is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(c) is guilty of patient
neglect, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of, or pleaded guilty to, any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, gross patient
neglect is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.34)
   (C)   Patient endangerment; spiritual treatment; defense.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES CARETAKER. Means any developmental
disabilities employee or any person who assumes the duty to provide for the
care and protection of a person with a developmental disability on a voluntary
basis, by contract, through receipt of payment for care and protection, as a
result of a family relationship, or by order of a court of competent
jurisdiction. The phrase includes a person who is an employee of a care
facility and a person who is an employee of an entity under contract with a
provider. The phrase does not include a person who owns, operates, or
administers a care facility or who is an agent of a care facility unless that
person also personally provides care to a person with a developmental
disability.
         DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5123.50.
         DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5123.01.
      (2)   No developmental disabilities caretaker shall create a substantial
risk to the health or safety of a person with a developmental disability. A
developmental disabilities caretaker does not create a substantial risk to the
health or safety of a person with a developmental disability under this
division when the developmental disabilities caretaker treats a physical or
mental illness or disability of the person with a developmental disability by
spiritual means through prayer alone, in accordance with the tenets of a
recognized religious body.
      (3)   No person who owns, operates, or administers a care facility or who
is an agent of a care facility shall condone, or knowingly permit, any conduct
by a developmental disabilities caretaker who is employed by or under the
control of the owner, operator, administrator, or agent that is in violation of
division (C)(2) of this section and that involves a person with a developmental
disability who is under the care of the owner, operator, administrator, or
agent. A person who relies upon treatment by spiritual means through prayer
alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious denomination,
shall not be considered endangered under this division for that reason alone.
      (4)   (a)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(2) or (C)(3) of this section that the actor’s conduct was
committed in good faith solely because the actor was ordered to commit the
conduct by a person to whom one of the following applies:
            1.   The person has supervisory authority over the actor.
            2.   The person has authority over the actor’s conduct pursuant to
a contract for the provision of services.
         (b)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(3) of this section that the person who owns, operates, or
administers a care facility or who is an agent of a care facility and who is
charged with the violation is following the individual service plan for the
involved person with a developmental disability or that the admission,
discharge, and transfer rule set forth in the Ohio Administrative Code is being
followed.
         (c)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(3) of this section that the actor did not have readily available a
means to prevent either the harm to the person with a developmental disability
or the death of such a person and the actor took reasonable steps to summon
aid.
      (5)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(5)(b) or (C)(5)(c) of this
section, whoever violates division (C)(2) or (C)(3) of this section is guilty
of patient endangerment, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of, or pleaded
guilty to, a violation of this section, patient endangerment is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the person
with a developmental disability, patient endangerment is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.341)
   (D)   False statements.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement, or knowingly
swear or affirm the truth of a false statement previously made, alleging a
violation of division (B) of this section when the statement is made with
purpose to incriminate another.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (D) is guilty of filing a false
patient abuse or neglect complaint, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2903.35)
   (E)   Retaliation against person reporting patient abuse or neglect. No care
facility shall discharge or in any manner discriminate or retaliate against any
person solely because such person, in good faith, filed a complaint, affidavit,
or other document alleging a violation of division (B) of this section or a
violation of R.C. § 2903.34.
(R.C. § 2903.36)
Statutory reference:
   License revocation for felony violations, see R.C. § 2903.37
§ 135.21 INTERFERENCE WITH RIGHT OF PERSON TO ENGAGE IN HOUSING TRANSACTIONS
BECAUSE OF RACE, RELIGION, OR THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person, whether or not acting under color of law, shall by force or
threat of force willfully injure, intimidate, or interfere with, or attempt to
injure, intimidate, or interfere with any of the following:
      (1)   Any person because of race, color, religion, sex, familial status,
as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin, military status as defined in
that section, disability as defined in that section, or ancestry and because
that person is or has been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying,
contracting, or negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or
occupation of any housing accommodations, or applying for or participating in
any service, organization, or facility relating to the business of selling or
renting housing accommodations.
      (2)   Any person because that person is or has been doing, or in order to
intimidate that person or any other person or any class of persons from doing
either of the following:
         (a)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, familial status, as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin,
military status as defined in that section, disability as defined in that
section, or ancestry, in any of the activities, services, organizations, or
facilities described in division (A)(1) of this section;
         (b)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
      (3)   Any person because that person is or has been, or in order to
discourage that person or any other person from, lawfully aiding or encouraging
other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, familial status as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin,
military status as defined in that section, disability as defined in that
section, or ancestry, in any of the activities, services, organizations, or
facilities described in division (A)(1) of this section, or participating
lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity
to so participate.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2927.03)
§ 135.22 ETHNIC INTIMIDATION.
   (A)   No person shall violate R.C. § 2903.21, 2903.22, 2909.06, or 2909.07,
or R.C. § 2917.21(A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5), by reason of the race, color,
religion, or national origin of another person or group of persons.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of ethnic intimidation. Ethnic
intimidation is an offense of the next higher degree than the offense the
commission of which is a necessary element of ethnic intimidation. In the case
of an offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree, ethnic intimidation is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.12)
§ 135.23 VIOLATING A PROTECTION ORDER, CONSENT AGREEMENT, ANTI-STALKING
PROTECTION ORDER OR ORDER ISSUED BY A COURT OF ANOTHER STATE.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly violate the terms of any of the following:
      (1)   A protection order issued or consent agreement approved pursuant to
R.C. § 2919.26 or R.C. § 3113.31;
      (2)   A protection order issued pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34, 2903.213 or
2903.214;
      (3)   A protection order issued by a court of another state.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of violating a
protection order.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3) or (B)(4) of this
section, violating a protection order is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   Violating a protection order is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the offender previously has been convicted of, pleaded
guilty to, or been adjudicated a delinquent child for any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of a protection order issued or consent agreement
approved pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34, 2903.213, 2903.214, 2919.26, or 3113.31,
or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance;
         (b)   Two or more violations of R.C. § 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22, or
2911.211, or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or
any combination of those offenses, that involved the same person who is the
subject of the protection order or consent agreement;
         (c)   One or more violations of this section, or any substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance.
      (4)   If the offender violates a protection order or consent agreement
while committing a felony offense, violating a protection order is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   If the protection order violated by the offender was an order
issued pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34 or 2903.214 that required electronic
monitoring of the offender pursuant to that section, the court may require in
addition to any other sentence imposed upon the offender that the offender be
electronically monitored for a period not exceeding five years by a law
enforcement agency designated by the court. If the court requires under this
division that the offender be electronically monitored, unless the court
determines that the offender is indigent, the court shall order that the
offender pay the costs of the installation of the electronic monitoring device
and the cost of monitoring the electronic monitoring device.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3) of this
section that the protection order issued by a court of another state does not
comply with the requirements specified in 18 U.S.C. § 2265(b) for a protection
order that must be accorded full faith and credit by a court of this state or
that it is not entitled to full faith and credit under 18 U.S.C. § 2265(c).
   (D)   In a prosecution for a violation of this section, it is not necessary
for the prosecution to prove that the protection order or consent agreement was
served on the defendant if the prosecution proves that the defendant was shown
the protection order or consent agreement or a copy of either or a judge,
magistrate, or law enforcement officer informed the defendant that a protection
order or consent agreement had been issued, and proves that the defendant
recklessly violated the terms of the order or agreement.
   (E)   As used in this section, PROTECTION ORDER ISSUED BY A COURT OF ANOTHER
STATE means an injunction or another order issued by a criminal court of
another state for the purpose of preventing violent or threatening acts or
harassment against, contact or communication with, or physical proximity to
another person including a temporary order, and means an injunction or order of
that nature issued by a civil court of another state, including a temporary
order and a final order issued in an independent action or as a pendente lite
order in a proceeding for other relief, if the court issued it in response to a
complaint, petition or motion filed by or on behalf of a person seeking
protection. The term does not include an order for support or for custody of a
child issued pursuant to the divorce and child custody laws of another state,
except to the extent that the order for support or for custody of a child is
entitled to full faith and credit under the laws of the United States.
(R.C. § 2919.27)
§ 135.24 ADULTERATION OF FOOD.
   (A)   No person shall do either of the following, knowing or having
reasonable cause to believe that any person may suffer physical harm or be
seriously inconvenienced or annoyed thereby:
      (1)   Place a pin, razor blade, glass, laxative, drug of abuse, or other
harmful or hazardous object or substance in any food or confection.
      (2)   Furnish to any person any food or confection which has been
adulterated in violation of division (A)(1) of this section.
(R.C. § 3716.11)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 3716.99(C))
Statutory reference:
   Adulteration of food generally, see R.C. § 3715.59
§ 135.25 ILLEGAL DISTRIBUTION OF CIGARETTES, OTHER TOBACCO PRODUCTS, OR
ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS; TRANSACTION SCANS.
   (A)   Illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         AGE VERIFICATION. A service provided by an independent third party
(other than a manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers
used to roll cigarettes) that compares information available from a
commercially available database, or aggregate of databases, that regularly are
used by government and businesses for the purpose of age and identity
verification to personal information provided during an internet sale or other
remote method of sale to establish that the purchaser is 21 years of age or
older.
         ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT.
            1.   Subject to division 2. of this definition, an electronic
smoking device, vapor product, or any other product or device that consists of
or contains nicotine that can be ingested into the body by any means,
including, but not limited to, chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, or
inhaling.
            2.   The phrase does not include any of the following:
               a.   Any cigarette or other tobacco product;
               b.   Any product that is a “drug” as that term is defined in 21
U.S.C. § 321(g)(1);
               c.   Any product that is a “device” as that term is defined in
21 U.S.C. § 321(h);
               d.   Any product that is a “combination product” as described in
21 U.S.C. § 353(g).
         CIGARETTE. Includes clove cigarettes and hand-rolled cigarettes.
         DISTRIBUTE. Means to furnish, give, or provide cigarettes, other
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes to the ultimate consumer of the cigarettes, other tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes.
         ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE. Means any device that can be used to
deliver aerosolized or vaporized nicotine or any other substance to the person
inhaling from the device including an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic hookah, vaping pen, or electronic pipe. The phrase includes any
component, part, or accessory of such a device, whether or not sold separately,
and includes any substance intended to be aerosolized or vaporized during the
use of the device. The phrase does not include any product that is a drug,
device, or combination product, as those terms are defined or described in 21
U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353(g).
         PROOF OF AGE. Means a driver’s license, a commercial driver’s license,
a military identification card, a passport, or an identification card issued
under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52 that shows that a person is 21 years of age or
older.
         TOBACCO PRODUCT. Means any product that is made or derived from
tobacco or that contains any form of nicotine, if it is intended for human
consumption or is likely to be consumed, whether smoked, heated, chewed,
absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, or ingested by any other means, including, but
not limited to, a cigarette, an electronic smoking device, a cigar, pipe
tobacco, chewing tobacco, snuff, or snus. The phrase also means any component
or accessory used in the consumption of a tobacco product, such as filters,
rolling papers, pipes, blunt or hemp wraps, and liquids used in electronic
smoking devices, whether or not they contain nicotine. The phrase does not
include any product that is a drug, device, or combination product, as those
terms are defined or described in 21 U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353(g).
         VAPOR PRODUCT. Means a product, other than a cigarette or other
tobacco product as defined in R.C. Chapter 5743, that contains or is made or
derived from nicotine and that is intended and marketed for human consumption,
including by smoking, inhaling, snorting, or sniffing. The phrase includes any
component, part, or additive that is intended for use in an electronic smoking
device, a mechanical heating element, battery, or electronic circuit and is
used to deliver the product. The phrase does not include any product that is a
drug, device, or combination product, as those terms are defined or described
in 21 U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353(g). The phrase includes any product containing
nicotine, regardless of concentration.
         VENDING MACHINE. Has the same meaning as “coin machine” in R.C. §
2913.01.
      (2)   No manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers
used to roll cigarettes, no agent, employee, or representative of a
manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of cigarettes,
other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes, and no other person shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Give, sell, or otherwise distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes:
            1.   To any person under 21 years of age; or
            2.   Without first verifying proof of age.
         (b)   Give away, sell, or distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes in
any place that does not have posted in a conspicuous place a legibly printed
sign in letters at least one-half inch high stating that giving, selling, or
otherwise distributing cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or papers used to roll cigarettes to a person under 21 years of age
is prohibited by law;
         (c)   Knowingly furnish any false information regarding the name, age,
or other identification of any person under 21 years of age with purpose to
obtain cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or
papers used to roll cigarettes for that person;
         (d)   Manufacture, sell, or distribute in this state any pack or other
container of cigarettes containing fewer than 20 cigarettes or any package of
roll-your-own tobacco containing less than six-tenths of one ounce of tobacco;
         (e)   Sell cigarettes or alternative nicotine products in a smaller
quantity than that placed in the pack or other container by the manufacturer;
         (f)   Give, sell, or otherwise distribute alternative nicotine
products, papers used to roll cigarettes, or tobacco products other than
cigarettes over the internet or through another remote method without age
verification;
         (g)   Allow an employee under 18 years of age to sell any tobacco
product;
         (h)   Give away or otherwise distribute free samples of cigarettes,
other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or coupons redeemable
for cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alterative tobacco products.
      (3)   No person shall sell or offer to sell cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products by or from a vending machine, except
in the following locations:
         (a)   An area within a factory, business, office, or other place not
open to the general public;
         (b)   An area to which persons under 21 years of age are not generally
permitted access;
         (c)   Any other place not identified in division (A)(3)(a) or (A)(3)
(b) of this section, upon all of the following conditions:
            1.   The vending machine is located within the immediate vicinity,
plain view, and control of the person who owns or operates the place, or an
employee of that person, so that all cigarettes, other tobacco product, and
alternative nicotine product purchases from the vending machine will be readily
observed by the person who owns or operates the place or an employee of that
person. For the purpose of this section, a vending machine located in any
unmonitored area, including an unmonitored coatroom, restroom, hallway, or
outer waiting area, shall not be considered located within the immediate
vicinity, plain view, and control of the person who owns or operates the place,
or an employee of that person.
            2.   The vending machine is inaccessible to the public when the
place is closed.
            3.   A clearly visible notice is posted in the area where the
vending machine is located that states the following in letters that are
legibly printed and at least one-half inch high: “It is illegal for any person
under the age of 21 to purchase tobacco or alternative nicotine products.”
      (4)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under division
(A)(2)(a) of this section:
         (a)   The person under 21 years of age was accompanied by a parent,
spouse who is 21 years of age or older, or legal guardian of the person under
21 years of age.
         (b)   The person who gave, sold, or distributed cigarettes, other
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes to a person under 21 years of age under division (A)(2)(a) of this
section is a parent, spouse who is 21 years of age or older, or legal guardian
of the person under 21 years of age.
      (5)   (a)   It is not a violation of division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of
this section for a person to give or otherwise distribute to a person under 21
years of age cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products,
or papers used to roll cigarettes while the person under 21 years of age is
participating in a research protocol if all of the following apply:
            1.   The parent, guardian, or legal custodian of the person under
21 years of age has consented in writing to the person under 21 years of age
participating in the research protocol.
            2.   An institutional human subjects protection review board, or an
equivalent entity, has approved the research protocol.
            3.   The person under 21 years of age is participating in the
research protocol at the facility or location specified in the research
protocol.
         (b)   It is not a violation of division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this
section for an employer to permit an employee 18, 19, or 20 years of age to
sell a tobacco product.
      (6)   (a)   No delivery service shall accept from, transport or deliver
to, or allow pick-up by, a person under 21 years of age with respect to any of
the following:
            1.   Alternative nicotine products;
            2.   Papers used to roll cigarettes;
            3.   Tobacco products other than cigarettes.
         (b)   A delivery service shall require proof of age as a condition of
accepting, transporting, delivering, or allowing pickup of the items described
in divisions (A)(6)(a)1. to 3. of this section.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(a), (A)(2)(b), (A)(2)(d), (A)(2)
(e), (A)(2)(f), (A)(2)(g), (A)(2)(h), (A)(3) or (A)(6) of this section is
guilty of illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative
nicotine products is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to illegal distribution of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(c) of this section is guilty of
permitting a person under 21 years of age to use cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products. Except as otherwise provided in
this division, permitting a person under 21 years of age to use cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation
of division (A)(2)(c) of this section or a substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, permitting a person under 21 years of age to use
cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (9)   Any cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or papers used to roll cigarettes that are given, sold, or otherwise
distributed to a person under 21 years of age in violation of this section and
that are used, possessed, purchased, or received by a person under 21 years of
age in violation of R.C. § 2151.87 are subject to seizure and forfeiture as
contraband under R.C. Chapter 2981.
(R.C. § 2927.02)
   (B)   Transaction scan.
      (1)   As used in this division and division (C) of this section:
         CARD HOLDER. Means any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a seller, or an agent or employee
of a seller, to purchase or receive cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products from a seller, agent, or employee.
         IDENTIFICATION CARD. Means an identification card issued under R.C. §§
4507.50 through 4507.52.
         SELLER. Means a seller of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products and includes any person whose gift of or other
distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products is subject to the prohibitions of division (A) of this section.
         TRANSACTION SCAN. Means the process by which a seller or an agent or
employee of a seller checks, by means of a transaction scan device, the
validity of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card
that is presented as a condition for purchasing or receiving cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products.
         TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Means any commercial device or combination of
devices used at a point of sale that is capable of deciphering in an
electronically readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or
bar code of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification
card.
      (2)   (a)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may perform a
transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the validity of
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a
card holder as a condition for selling, giving away, or otherwise distributing
to the card holder cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products.
         (b)   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (B)(2)(a) of this section fails to match the information printed
on the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information
so printed is false or fraudulent, neither the seller nor any agent or employee
of the seller shall sell, give away, or otherwise distribute any cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products to the card holder.
         (c)   Division (B)(2)(a) of this section does not preclude a seller or
an agent or employee of a seller from using a transaction scan device to check
the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or identification card, if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip
that may be scanned by the device, as a condition for selling, giving away, or
otherwise distributing cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative
nicotine products to the person presenting the document.
      (3)   Rules adopted by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. §
4301.61(C) apply to the use of transaction scan devices for purposes of this
division (B) and division (C) of this section.
      (4)   (a)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except for the following:
            1.   The name and date of birth of the person listed on the
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the
card holder;
            2.   The expiration date and identification number of the driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the card
holder.
         (b)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use the
information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to be
recorded and maintained under division (B)(4)(a) of this section, except for
purposes of division (C) of this section.
         (c)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use a
transaction scan device for a purpose other than the purpose specified in
division (C)(2)(a) of this section.
         (d)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall sell or
otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising, or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by division (C) of this section
or another section of this code or the Ohio Revised Code.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (B) or division (C) of this section
relieves a seller or an agent or employee of a seller of any responsibility to
comply with any other applicable local, state or federal laws or rules
governing the sale, giving away, or other distribution of cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (B)(2)(b) or (B)(4) of this section is
guilty of engaging in an illegal tobacco product or alternative nicotine
product transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender a civil
penalty of up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the Court shall pay
each collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into the
County Treasury.
(R.C. § 2927.021)
   (C)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may not be found
guilty of a charge of a violation of division (A) of this section in which the
age of the purchaser or other recipient of cigarettes, other tobacco products,
or alternative nicotine products is an element of the alleged violation, if the
seller, agent, or employee raises and proves as an affirmative defense that all
of the following occurred:
         (a)   A card holder attempting to purchase or receive cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products presented a driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or an identification card.
         (b)   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that
the license or card was valid.
         (c)   The cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products were sold, given away, or otherwise distributed to the card holder in
reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and the completed
transaction scan.
      (2)   In determining whether a seller or an agent or employee of a seller
has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (C)(1) of this section,
the trier of fact in the action for the alleged violation of division (A) of
this section shall consider any written policy that the seller has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of division (A) of this
section. For purposes of division (C)(1)(c) of this section, the trier of fact
shall consider that reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan may require a seller or an agent or employee of
a seller to exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a
transaction scan device does not excuse a seller or an agent or employee of a
seller from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
         (a)   Whether a person to whom the seller or agent or employee of a
seller sells, gives away, or otherwise distributes cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products is 21 years of age or older;
         (b)   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
      (3)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by
division (C)(1) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a
deputy registrar who issued an identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50
through 4507.52 shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of
that issuance in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles in the action.
(R.C. § 2927.022)
   (D)   Shipment of tobacco products.
      (1)   As used in this division (D):
         AUTHORIZED RECIPIENT OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Means:
            1.   In the case of cigarettes, a person who is:
               a.   Licensed as a cigarette wholesale dealer under R.C. §
5743.15;
               b.   Licensed as a retail dealer as long as the person purchases
cigarettes with the appropriate tax stamp affixed;
               c.   An export warehouse proprietor as defined in Internal
Revenue Code § 5702;
               d.   An operator of a customs bonded warehouse under 19 U.S.C. §
1311 or 19 U.S.C. § 1555;
               e.   An officer, employee, or agent of the federal government or
of this state acting in the person's official capacity;
               f.   A department, agency, instrumentality, or political
subdivision of the federal government or of this state;
               g.   A person having a consent for consumer shipment issued by
the Ohio Tax Commissioner under R.C. § 5743.71.
            2.   In the case of electronic smoking devices or vapor products, a
person who is:
               a.   Licensed as a distributor of tobacco or vapor products
under R.C. § 5743.61;
               b.   A retail dealer of vapor products, as defined in R.C. §
5741.01(C)(3), that is not licensed as a vapor distributor, as long as the tax
levied by R.C. § 5743.51, 5743.62, or 5743.63, as applicable, has been paid;
               c.   An operator of a customs bonded warehouse under 19 U.S.C. §
1311 or 19 U.S.C. § 1555;
               d.   An officer, employee, or agent of the federal government or
of this state acting in the person’s official capacity;
               e.   A department, agency, instrumentality, or political
subdivision of the federal government or of this state.
         MOTOR CARRIER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4923.01.
      (2)   The purpose of this section is to prevent the sale of cigarettes,
electronic smoking devices, and vapor products to minors and to ensure
compliance with the Master Settlement Agreement, as defined in R.C. § 1346.01.
      (3)   (a)   No person shall cause to be shipped any cigarettes,
electronic smoking devices, and vapor products to any person in this
municipality other than an authorized recipient of tobacco products.
         (b)   No motor carrier, or other person shall knowingly transport
cigarettes, electronic smoking devices, and vapor products to any person in
this municipality that the carrier or other person reasonably believes is not
an authorized recipient of tobacco products. If cigarettes, electronic smoking
devices, and vapor products are transported to a home or residence, it shall be
presumed that the motor carrier, or other person knew that the person to whom
the cigarettes, electronic smoking devices, and vapor products were delivered
was not an authorized recipient of tobacco products.
      (4)   No person engaged in the business of selling cigarettes, electronic
smoking devices, and vapor products who ships or causes to be shipped
cigarettes, electronic smoking devices, and vapor products to any person in
this municipality in any container or wrapping other than the original
container or wrapping shall fail to plainly and visibly mark the exterior of
the container or wrapping in which the cigarettes, electronic smoking devices,
and vapor products are shipped with the words “cigarettes”, “electronic smoking
devices”, or “vapor products”, as applicable.
      (5)   A court shall impose a fine of up to $1,000 for each violation of
division (D)(3)(a), (D)(3)(b) or (D)(4) of this section.
(R.C. § 2927.023)
   (E)   Furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products.
      (1)   No person who is 18 years of age or older but younger than 21 years
of age shall knowingly furnish false information concerning that person’s name,
age, or other identification for the purpose of obtaining tobacco products.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (E)(1) of this section is guilty of
furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, furnishing false information to obtain tobacco
products is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E)(1) of this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
(R.C. § 2927.024)
§ 135.26 NONSMOKING AREAS IN PLACES OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY.
   (A)   As used in this section, PLACE OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY means:
      (1)   Enclosed theaters, except the lobby; opera houses; auditoriums;
classrooms; elevators; rooms in which persons are confined as a matter of
health care, including but not limited to a hospital room and a room in a
residential care facility serving as the residence of a person living in such
residential care facility.
      (2)   All buildings and other enclosed structures owned by the state, its
agencies, or political subdivisions, including but not limited to hospitals and
state institutions for persons with mental illnesses and persons with
intellectual disabilities; university and college buildings, except rooms
within those buildings used primarily as the residences of students or other
persons affiliated with the university or college; office buildings; libraries;
museums; and vehicles used in public transportation. That portion of a building
or other enclosed structure that is owned by the state, a state agency, or a
political subdivision, and that is used primarily as a food service
establishment, is not a place of public assembly.
      (3)   Each portion of a building or enclosed structure that is not
included in division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is a place of public
assembly if it has a seating capacity of 50 or more persons and is available to
the public. Restaurants, food service establishments, dining rooms, cafes,
cafeterias, or other rooms used primarily for the service of food, as well as
bowling alleys and places licensed by the Ohio Division of Liquor Control to
sell intoxicating beverages for consumption on the premises, are not places of
public assembly.
   (B)   For the purpose of separating persons who smoke from persons who do
not smoke for the comfort and health of persons not smoking, in every place of
public assembly there shall be an area where smoking is not permitted, which
shall be designated a no smoking area, provided that not more than one-half of
the rooms in any health care facility in which persons are confined as a matter
of health care may be designated as smoking areas in their entirety. The
designation shall be made before the place of public assembly is made available
to the public. In places included in division (A)(1) of this section, the local
fire authority having jurisdiction shall designate the no smoking area. In
places included in division (A)(2) of this section that are owned by the state
or its agencies, the Ohio Director of Administrative Services shall designate
the area, and if the place is owned by a political subdivision, its Legislative
Authority shall designate an officer who shall designate the area. In places
included in division (A)(3) of this section, the person having control of the
operations of the place of public assembly shall designate the no smoking area.
In places included in division (A)(2) of this section which are also included
in division (A)(1) of this section, the officer who has authority to designate
the area in places in division (A)(2) of this section shall designate the no
smoking area. A no smoking area may include the entire place of public
assembly. Designations shall be made by the placement of signs that are clearly
visible and that state “no smoking”. No person shall remove signs from areas
designated as no smoking areas.
   (C)   This section does not affect or modify the prohibition contained in
R.C. § 3313.751(B).
   (D)   No person shall smoke in any area designated as a no smoking area in
accordance with division (B) of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3791.031)
§ 135.27 SPREADING CONTAGION.
   (A)   No person, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the
person has a dangerous, contagious disease, shall knowingly fail to take
reasonable measures to prevent exposing self to other persons, except when
seeking medical aid.
   (B)   No person, having charge or care of a person whom the person having
charge or care knows or has reasonable cause to believe has a dangerous,
contagious disease, shall recklessly fail to take reasonable measures to
protect others from exposure to the contagion, and to inform health authorities
of the existence of the contagion.
   (C)   No person, having charge of a public conveyance or place of public
accommodation, amusement, resort, or trade, and knowing or having reasonable
cause to believe that persons using such conveyance or place have been or are
being exposed to a dangerous, contagious disease, shall negligently fail to
take reasonable measures to protect the public from exposure to the contagion,
and to inform health authorities of the existence of the contagion.
(R.C. § 3701.81)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second
degree.
(R.C. § 3701.99(C))
Statutory reference:
    Contagion and quarantine, see R.C. §§ 3707.04 et seq.
    Power to prevent contagious diseases, see R.C. § 715.37
§ 135.28 ABUSE OF A CORPSE.
   (A)   No person, except as authorized by law, shall treat a human corpse in
a way that he or she knows would outrage reasonable family sensibilities.
   (B)   No person, except as authorized by law, shall treat a human corpse in
a way that would outrage reasonable community sensibilities.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of abuse of a
corpse, a misdemeanor of the second degree. Whoever violates division (B) of
this section is guilty of gross abuse of a corpse, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.01)
§ 135.29 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ADULT. A person at least 18 years of age.
      EMPLOYER. A business holding a vendor’s license from a county auditor
and/or registered with the village for the purpose of paying village income
taxes.
      MINOR. A person under the age of 18 years.
      REMAIN. To linger, stay behind, or tarry, or to stay upon a public right-
of-way, street, alley, highway, sidewalk, playground, park, plaza, building, or
other place used by or occupied by the public.
   (B)   Generally. No minor under the age of 18 years shall remain in, about
or upon public streets, sidewalks, alleys or any other unsupervised space used
or occupied by the public between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the
following day unless exempted under division (F) of this section.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   In the event that any school, church, civic organization, parent or
guardian desires to sponsor entertainment for minors, which entertainment will
require minors affected by division (B) of this section to be out after 12:00
a.m. and which entertainment is supervised by adults, then the person or
persons sponsoring such entertainment shall advise the Chief of Police or an
officer designated by him or her of the place of entertainment and the time it
will end. Minors who attend such a function shall be required to be in
compliance with division (B) of this section no later than 30 minutes following
the time the sponsor indicated that the function would end unless exempted
under division (F) of this section.
      (2)   The provisions of division (A) of this section shall not apply to
any minor accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other adult person
having the care and custody of the minor, or to any minor who is traveling to a
medical facility to receive emergency treatment for himself or herself or
another in his or her care, or to any minor who is traveling between the
location of his or her employer and residence; provided that said minor is not
upon the public streets, sidewalks, alleys or any other unsupervised place
occupied by the public, more than 30 minutes after the end of his or her work
unless exempted under division (F) of this section.
   (D)   Responsibility of parent.
      (1)   No parent, guardian or other person having the lawful care, custody
or control of any minor under the age of 18 years shall allow or permit such
person to violate the provisions of division (A) of this section. It shall be
prima facie evidence of violation of this section that the child of a parent,
guardian or person having custody was found in violation of division (A) of
this section unless exempted under division (F) of this section.
      (2)   Police officers finding a minor in violation of division (A) of
this section shall be empowered to demand that the parent, guardian or other
adult person having the care, custody or supervision of such minor shall appear
and take custody of such minor upon request of such officer. No such parent,
guardian or other adult person having care, custody or supervision of said
minor shall fail or refuse to appear and to take such minor into custody within
two hours after such demand is made upon him or her, unless reasonably hindered
from doing so unless exempted under division (F) of this section.
   (E)   Aiding and abetting violators of curfew. It shall be unlawful for any
person over the age of 18 years to aid, abet, influence or encourage a minor in
violation of division (A) of this section unless exempted under division (F) of
this section.
   (F)   It is an exemption to a violation under this section that the person
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
   (G)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any minor found violating division (A) of this section shall be
guilty of committing a curfew violation and shall be dealt with in accordance
with juvenile court law and procedure.
      (2)   Any parent, guardian or other adult person having the care, custody
or supervision of a minor who has violated division (A) of this section more
than once has therefore violated division (D)(1) of this section and shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (D)(2) or (E) of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(Ord. 10-21, passed 11-9-2010)
CHAPTER 136: OFFENSES AGAINST JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
136.01   Definitions
   
136.02   Falsification
   
136.03   Compounding a crime
   
136.04   Failure to report a crime
   
136.05   Failure to aid a law enforcement officer
   
136.06   Obstructing official business
   
136.07   Obstructing justice
   
136.08   Resisting arrest
   
136.09   Having an unlawful interest in a public contract
   
136.10   Soliciting or receiving improper compensation
   
136.11   Dereliction of duty
   
136.12   Interfering with civil rights
   
136.13   Illegal conveyance of prohibited items onto grounds of a detention
facility or other specified governmental facilities
   
136.14   False report of child abuse or neglect
   
136.15   Assaulting police dog or horse, or assistance dog
   
136.16   Disclosure of confidential peace officer information
   
136.17   Intimidation of crime victim or witness
   
136.18   Using sham legal process
   
136.19   Making false allegation of peace officer misconduct
   
136.20   Misuse of 9-1-1 system
   
136.21   Failure to disclose personal information
Statutory reference:
   Escape from detention, see R.C. § 2921.34
   Harassment by inmates by causing or attempting to cause contact with blood,
semen, urine, feces or other bodily substance; knowledge of AIDS, hepatitis or
tuberculosis infection; felony offenses, see R.C. § 2921.38
§ 136.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   CONTRIBUTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   DETENTION. Arrest; confinement in any vehicle subsequent to an arrest;
confinement in any public or private facility for custody of persons charged
with or convicted of crime in this state or another state or under the laws of
the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent child or unruly child
in this state or another state or under the laws of the United States;
hospitalization, institutionalization, or confinement in any public or private
facility that is ordered pursuant to or under the authority of R.C. § 2945.37,
2945.371, 2945.38, 2945.39, 2945.40, 2945.401 or 2945.402; confinement in any
vehicle for transportation to or from any facility of any of those natures;
detention for extradition or deportation; except as provided in this division,
supervision by any employee of any facility of any of those natures that is
incidental to hospitalization, institutionalization, or confinement in the
facility but that occurs outside the facility; supervision by an employee of
the Department of Rehabilitation and Correction of a person on any type of
release from a state correctional institution; or confinement in any vehicle,
airplane, or place while being returned from outside of this state into this
state by a private person or entity pursuant to a contract entered into under
R.C. § 311.29(E) or R.C. § 5149.03(B). For a person confined in a county jail
who participates in a county jail industry program pursuant to R.C. § 5147.30,
the term includes time spent at an assigned work site and going to and from the
work site.
   DETENTION FACILITY. Any public or private place used for the confinement of
a person charged with or convicted of any crime in this state or another state
or under the laws of the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent
child or an unruly child in this state or another state or under the laws of
the United States.
   LEGISLATIVE CAMPAIGN FUND. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   OFFICIAL PROCEEDING. Any proceeding before a legislative, judicial,
administrative, or other governmental agency or official authorized to take
evidence under oath, and includes any proceeding before a referee, hearing
examiner, commissioner, notary, or other person taking testimony or a
deposition in connection with an official proceeding.
   PARTY OFFICIAL. Any person who holds an elective or appointive post in a
political party in the United States or this state, by virtue of which he or
she directs, conducts, or participates in directing or conducting party affairs
at any level of responsibility.
   POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   POLITICAL CONTRIBUTING ENTITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   POLITICAL PARTY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   PROVIDER AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
   PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Any elected or appointed officer, employee, or agent of the
state or any political subdivision thereof, whether in a temporary or permanent
capacity, and includes but is not limited to legislators, judges, and law
enforcement officers. The term does not include an employee, officer, or
governor-appointed member of the board of directors of the nonprofit
corporation formed under R.C. § 187.01.
   PUBLIC SERVANT.
      (1)   Any of the following:
         (a)   Any public official.
         (b)   Any person performing ad hoc a governmental function, including
but not limited to a juror, member of a temporary commission, master,
arbitrator, advisor, or consultant.
         (c)   A person who is a candidate for public office, whether or not he
or she is elected or appointed to the office for which he or she is a
candidate. A person is a candidate for purposes of this division if he or she
has been nominated according to law for election or appointment to public
office, or if he or she has filed a petition or petitions as required by law to
have his or her name placed on the ballot in a primary, general, or special
election, or if he or she campaigns as a write-in candidate in any primary,
general, or special election.
      (2)   The term does not include an employee, officer, or governor-
appointed member of the board of directors of the nonprofit corporation formed
under R.C. § 187.01.
   VALUABLE THING or VALUABLE BENEFIT. Includes but is not limited to a
contribution. This inclusion does not indicate or imply that a contribution was
not included in those terms before September 17, 1986.
(R.C. § 2921.01)
§ 136.02 FALSIFICATION.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement, or knowingly swear
or affirm the truth of a false statement previously made, when any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The statement is made in any official proceeding.
      (2)   The statement is made with purpose to incriminate another.
      (3)   The statement is made with purpose to mislead a public official in
performing his or her official function.
      (4)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the payment of
unemployment compensation; Ohio Works First; prevention, retention and
contingency benefits and services; disability financial assistance; retirement
benefits or health care coverage from a state retirement system; economic
development assistance as defined in R.C. § 9.66; or other benefits
administered by a governmental agency or paid out of a public treasury.
      (5)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the issuance by a
governmental agency of a license, permit, authorization, certificate,
registration, release, or provider agreement.
      (6)   The statement is sworn or affirmed before a notary public or
another person empowered to administer oaths.
      (7)   The statement is in writing on or in connection with a report or
return that is required or authorized by law.
      (8)   The statement is in writing, and is made with purpose to induce
another to extend credit to or employ the offender, or to confer any degree,
diploma, certificate of attainment, award of excellence, or honor on the
offender, or to extend to or bestow upon the offender any other valuable
benefit or distinction, when the person to whom the statement is directed
relies upon it to his or her detriment.
      (9)   The statement is made with purpose to commit or facilitate the
commission of a theft offense.
      (10)   The statement is knowingly made to a probate court in connection
with any action, proceeding, or other matter within its jurisdiction, either
orally or in a written document, including but not limited to an application,
petition, complaint, or other pleading, or an inventory, account, or report.
      (11)   The statement is made on an account, form, record, stamp, label or
other writing that is required by law.
      (12)   The statement is made in connection with the purchase of a
firearm, as defined in R.C. § 2923.11, and in conjunction with the furnishing
to the seller of the firearm of a fictitious or altered driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit, a fictitious or altered identification card, or any
other document that contains false information about the purchaser’s identity.
      (13)   The statement is made in a document or instrument of writing that
purports to be a judgment, lien, or claim of indebtedness and is filed or
recorded with the Secretary of State, a county recorder, or the clerk of a
court of record.
      (14)   The statement is made in an application filed with a county
sheriff pursuant to R.C. § 2923.125 in order to obtain or renew a concealed
handgun license or is made in an affidavit submitted to a county sheriff to
obtain a concealed handgun license on a temporary emergency basis under R.C. §
2923.1213.
      (15)   The statement is required under R.C. § 5743.71 in connection with
the person’s purchase of cigarettes or tobacco products in a delivery sale.
   (B)   No person, in connection with the purchase of a firearm as defined in
R.C. § 2923.11, shall knowingly furnish to the seller of the firearm a
fictitious or altered driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit, a
fictitious or altered identification card, or any other document that contains
false information about the purchaser’s identity.
   (C)   No person, in an attempt to obtain a concealed handgun license under
R.C. § 2923.125, shall knowingly present to a sheriff a fictitious or altered
document that purports to be certification of the person’s competence in
handling a handgun as described in division (B)(3) of that section.
   (D)   It is no defense to a charge under division (A)(6) of this section
that the oath or affirmation was administered or taken in an irregular manner.
   (E)   If contradictory statements relating to the same fact are made by the
offender within the period of the statute of limitations for falsification, it
is not necessary for the prosecution to prove which statement was false, but
only that one or the other was false.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), (A)
(5), (A)(6), (A)(7), (A)(8), (A)(10), (A)(11), (A)(13) or (A)(15) of this
section is guilty of falsification. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, falsification is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(9) of this section is guilty of
falsification in a theft offense. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, falsification in a theft offense is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the value of the property or services stolen is $1,000 or more,
falsification in a theft offense is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(12) or (B) of this section is guilty
of falsification to purchase a firearm, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (A)(14) or (C) of this section is guilty
of falsification to obtain a concealed handgun license, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section in removal
proceedings under R.C. § 319.26, 321.37, 507.13 or 733.78 is guilty of
falsification regarding a removal proceeding, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.13)
   (G)   (1)   No person who has knowingly failed to maintain proof of
financial responsibility in accordance with R.C. § 4509.101 shall produce any
document or present to a peace officer an electronic wireless communications
device that is displaying any text or images with the purpose to mislead a
peace officer upon the request of a peace officer for proof of financial
responsibility made in accordance with R.C. § 4509.101(D)(2).
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (G) is guilty of falsification, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4509.102)
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability for violations of this section, see R.C. § 2921.13(G)
§ 136.03 COMPOUNDING A CRIME.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly demand, accept, or agree to accept anything
of value in consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon a pending
criminal prosecution.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section when both
of the following apply:
      (1)   The pending prosecution involved is for a violation of R.C. §
2913.02, 2913.11, 2913.21(B)(2), or 2913.47, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, of which the actor under this section was the victim.
      (2)   The thing of value demanded, accepted, or agreed to be accepted, in
consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon the prosecution, did not
exceed an amount that the actor reasonably believed due him or her as
restitution for the loss caused him or her by the offense.
   (C)   When a prosecuting witness abandons or agrees to abandon a prosecution
under division (B) of this section, the abandonment or agreement in no way
binds the state to abandoning the prosecution.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of compounding a crime, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.21)
§ 136.04 FAILURE TO REPORT A CRIME.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, no
person, knowing that a felony has been or is being committed, shall knowingly
fail to report the information to law enforcement authorities.
      (2)   No person, knowing that a violation of R.C. § 2913.04(B) has been
or is being committed or that the person has received information derived from
such a violation, shall knowingly fail to report the violation to law
enforcement authorities.
   (B)   Except for conditions that are within the scope of division (E) of
this section, no person giving aid to a sick or injured person shall
negligently fail to report to law enforcement authorities any gunshot or stab
wound treated or observed by the person, or any serious physical harm to
persons that the person knows or has reasonable cause to believe resulted from
an offense of violence.
   (C)   No person who discovers the body or acquires the first knowledge of
the death of a person shall fail to report the death immediately to a physician
or advanced practice registered nurse whom the person knows to be treating the
deceased for a condition from which death at such time would not be unexpected,
or to a law enforcement officer, an ambulance service, an emergency squad, or
the coroner in a political subdivision in which the body is discovered, the
death is believed to have occurred, or knowledge concerning the death is
obtained. For purposes of this division, “advanced practice registered nurse”
does not include a certified registered nurse anesthetist.
   (D)   No person shall fail to provide upon request of the person to whom a
report required by division (C) of this section was made, or to any law
enforcement officer who has reasonable cause to assert the authority to
investigate the circumstances surrounding the death, any facts within his or
her knowledge that may have a bearing on the investigation of the death.
   (E)   (1)   As used in this section, BURN INJURY means any of the following:
         (a)   Second or third degree burns;
         (b)   Any burns to the upper respiratory tract or laryngeal edema due
to the inhalation of super-heated air;
         (c)   Any burn injury or wound that may result in death;
         (d)   Any physical harm to persons caused by or as the result of the
use of fireworks, novelties and trick noisemakers, and wire sparklers, as each
is defined by R.C. § 3743.01.
      (2)   No physician, nurse, physician assistant, or limited practitioner
who, outside a hospital, sanitarium, or other medical facility, attends or
treats a person who has sustained a burn injury inflicted by an explosion or
other incendiary device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a
violent, malicious, or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury
immediately to the local arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the
jurisdiction in which the person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local
law enforcement authorities.
      (3)   No manager, superintendent, or other person in charge of a
hospital, sanitarium, or other medical facility in which a person is attended
or treated for any burn injury inflicted by an explosion or other incendiary
device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a violent,
malicious, or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury immediately
to the local arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the jurisdiction in
which the person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local law enforcement
authorities.
      (4)   No person who is required to report any burn injury under division
(E)(2) or (E)(3) of this section shall fail to file, within three working days
after attending or treating the victim, a written report of the burn injury
with the office of the State Fire Marshal. The report shall be made on a form
provided by the State Fire Marshal.
      (5)   Anyone participating in the making of reports under division (E) of
this section or anyone participating in a judicial proceeding resulting from
the reports is immune from any civil or criminal liability that otherwise might
be incurred or imposed as a result of such actions. Notwithstanding R.C. §
4731.22, the physician-patient relationship or advanced practice registered
nurse-patient relationship is not a ground for excluding evidence regarding a
person’s burn injury or the cause of the burn injury in any judicial proceeding
resulting from a report submitted under division (E) of this section.
   (F)   (1)   Any doctor of medicine or osteopathic medicine, hospital intern
or resident, nurse, psychologist, social worker, independent social worker,
social work assistant, licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed
professional counselor, independent marriage and family therapist, or marriage
and family therapist who knows or has reasonable cause to believe that a
patient or client has been the victim of domestic violence, as defined in R.C.
§ 3113.31, shall note that knowledge or belief and the basis for it in the
patient’s or client’s records.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 4731.22, the physician-patient privilege or
advanced practice registered nurse-patient privilege shall not be a ground for
excluding any information regarding the report containing the knowledge or
belief noted under division (F)(1) of this section, and the information may be
admitted as evidence in accordance with the Rules of Evidence.
   (G)   Division (A) or (D) of this section does not require disclosure of
information, when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The information is privileged by reason of the relationship between
attorney and client; physician and patient; advanced practice registered nurse
and patient; licensed psychologist or licensed school psychologist and client;
licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed professional counselor,
independent social worker, social worker, independent marriage and family
therapist, or marriage and family therapist and client; member of the clergy,
rabbi, minister, or priest and any person communicating information
confidentially to the member of the clergy, rabbi, minister, or priest for a
religious counseling purpose of a professional character; husband and wife; or
a communications assistant and those who are a party to a telecommunications
relay service call.
      (2)   The information would tend to incriminate a member of the actor’s
immediate family.
      (3)   Disclosure of the information would amount to revealing a news
source, privileged under R.C. § 2739.04 or 2739.12.
      (4)   Disclosure of the information would amount to disclosure by a
member of the ordained clergy of an organized religious body of a confidential
communication made to that member of the clergy in that member’s capacity as a
member of the clergy by a person seeking the aid or counsel of that member of
the clergy.
      (5)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of the actor’s duties in connection with a bona fide
program of treatment or services for persons with drug dependencies or persons
in danger of drug dependence, which program is maintained or conducted by a
hospital, clinic, person, agency, or community addiction services provider
whose alcohol and drug addiction services are certified pursuant to R.C. §
5119.36.
      (6)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of the actor’s duties in connection with a bona fide
program for providing counseling services to victims of crimes that are
violations of R.C. § 2907.02 or R.C. § 2907.05 or to victims of felonious
sexual penetration in violation of former R.C. § 2907.12. As used in this
division, “counseling services” include services provided in an informal
setting by a person who, by education or experience, is competent to provide
those services.
   (H)   No disclosure of information pursuant to this section gives rise to
any liability or recrimination for a breach of privilege or confidence.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of
failure to report a crime. Violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Violation of division (A)(2) or (B) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (J)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of
failure to report knowledge of a death, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (K)   (1)   Whoever negligently violates division (E) of this section is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Whoever knowingly violates division (E) of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (L)   As used in this section, NURSE includes an advanced practice
registered nurse, registered nurse, and licensed practical nurse.
(R.C. § 2921.22)
§ 136.05 FAILURE TO AID A LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall negligently fail or refuse to aid a law enforcement
officer, when called upon for assistance in preventing or halting the
commission of an offense, or in apprehending or detaining an offender, when the
aid can be given without a substantial risk of physical harm to the person
giving it.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to aid a law
enforcement officer, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2921.23)
§ 136.06 OBSTRUCTING OFFICIAL BUSINESS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so and with purpose to prevent,
obstruct, or delay the performance by a public official of any authorized act
within the public official’s official capacity, shall do any act that hampers
or impedes a public official in the performance of the public official’s lawful
duties.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing official
business. Except as otherwise provided in this division, obstructing official
business is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If a violation of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, obstructing official business is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.31)
§ 136.07 OBSTRUCTING JUSTICE.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to hinder the discovery, apprehension,
prosecution, conviction, or punishment of another for crime, or to assist
another to benefit from the commission of a crime, and no person, with purpose
to hinder the discovery, apprehension, prosecution, adjudication as a
delinquent child, or disposition of a child for an act that if committed by an
adult would be a crime or to assist a child to benefit from the commission of
an act that if committed by an adult would be a crime, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Harbor or conceal the other person or child.
      (2)   Provide the other person or child with money, transportation, a
weapon, a disguise, or other means of avoiding discovery or apprehension.
      (3)   Warn the other person or child of impending discovery or
apprehension.
      (4)   Destroy or conceal physical evidence of the crime or act, or induce
any person to withhold testimony or information or to elude legal process
summoning him or her to testify or supply evidence.
      (5)   Communicate false information to any person.
      (6)   Prevent or obstruct any person, by means of force, intimidation, or
deception, from performing any act to aid in the discovery, apprehension, or
prosecution of the other person or child.
   (B)   A person may be prosecuted for, and may be convicted of or adjudicated
a delinquent child for committing, a violation of division (A) of this section
regardless of whether the person or child aided ultimately is apprehended for,
is charged with, is convicted of, pleads guilty to, or is adjudicated a
delinquent child for committing the crime or act the person or child aided
committed. The crime or act the person or child aided committed shall be used
under division (C) of this section in determining the penalty for violation of
division (A) of this section, regardless of whether the person or child aided
ultimately is apprehended for, is charge with, is convicted of, pleads guilty
to, or is adjudicated a delinquent child for committing the crime or act the
person or child aided committed.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing justice.
      (1)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a misdemeanor or if
the act committed by the child aided would be a misdemeanor if committed by an
adult, obstructing justice is a misdemeanor of the same degree as the crime
committed by the person aided or a misdemeanor of the same degree that the act
committed by the child aided would be if committed by an adult.
      (2)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a felony or if the
act committed by the child aided would be a felony if committed by an adult, or
if the crime or act committed by the person or child aided is an act of
terrorism, obstructing justice is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      ACT OF TERRORISM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.21.
      ADULT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.011.
      CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.011.
      DELINQUENT CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2152.02.
(R.C. § 2921.32)
§ 136.08 RESISTING ARREST.
   (A)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of himself, herself or another.
   (B)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person and, during the course of or as a
result of the resistance or interference, cause physical harm to a law
enforcement officer.
   (C)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person if either of the following
applies:
      (1)   The offender, during the course of or as a result of the resistance
or interference, recklessly causes physical harm to a law enforcement officer
by means of a deadly weapon; or
      (2)   The offender, during the course of the resistance or interference,
brandishes a deadly weapon.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of resisting arrest. A
violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (E)   As used in this section, DEADLY WEAPON has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2923.11.
(R.C. § 2921.33)
Statutory reference:
   Unlawful taking of deadly weapon from a law enforcement officer, felony
offense, see R.C. § 2911.01
§ 136.09 HAVING AN UNLAWFUL INTEREST IN A PUBLIC CONTRACT.
   (A)   No public official shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Authorize or employ the authority of the public official’s office
to secure authorization of any public contract in which the public official, a
member of the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s
business associates has an interest.
      (2)   Authorize or employ the authority or influence of the public
official’s office to secure the investment of public funds in any share, bond,
mortgage, or other security with respect to which the public official, a member
of the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s business
associates either has an interest, is an underwriter, or receives any
brokerage, origination, or servicing fees.
      (3)   During the public official’s term of office or within one year
thereafter, occupy any position of profit in the prosecution of a public
contract authorized by the public official or by a legislative body,
commission, or board of which the public official was a member at the time of
authorization, unless the contract was let by competitive bidding to the lowest
and best bidder.
      (4)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
entered into by or for the use of the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality with which the public official is connected.
      (5)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
that is not let by competitive bidding when required by law, and that involves
more than $150.
   (B)   In the absence of bribery or a purpose to defraud, a public official,
member of a public official’s family, or any of a public official’s business
associates shall not be considered as having an interest in a public contract
or the investment of public funds, if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The interest of that person is limited to owning or controlling
shares of the corporation, or being a creditor of the corporation or other
organization, that is the contractor on the public contract involved, or that
is the issuer of the security in which public funds are invested.
      (2)   The shares owned or controlled by that person do not exceed 5% of
the outstanding shares of the corporation, and the amount due that person as
creditor does not exceed 5% of the total indebtedness of the corporation or
other organization.
      (3)   That person, prior to the time the public contract is entered into,
files with the political subdivision or governmental agency or instrumentality
involved, an affidavit giving that person’s exact status in connection with the
corporation or other organization.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a public contract in which a public
official, member of a public official’s family, or one of a public official’s
business associates has an interest, when all of the following apply:
      (1)   The subject of the public contract is necessary supplies or
services for the political subdivision or governmental agency or
instrumentality involved.
      (2)   The supplies or services are unobtainable elsewhere for the same or
lower cost, or are being furnished to the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality as part of a continuing course of dealing established
prior to the public official’s becoming associated with the political
subdivision or governmental agency or instrumentality involved.
      (3)   The treatment accorded the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality is either preferential to or the same as that
accorded other customers or clients in similar transactions.
      (4)   The entire transaction is conducted at arm’s length, with full
knowledge by the political subdivision or governmental agency or
instrumentality involved, of the interest of the public official, member of the
public official’s family, or business associate, and the public official takes
no part in the deliberations or decision of the political subdivision or
governmental agency or instrumentality with respect to the public contract.
   (D)   Division (A)(4) of this section does not prohibit participation by a
public employee in any housing program funded by public monies if the public
employee otherwise qualifies for the program and does not use the authority or
influence of the public employee’s office or employment to secure benefits from
the program and if the monies are to be used on the primary residence of the
public employee. Such participation does not constitute an unlawful interest in
a public contract in violation of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of having an unlawful interest
in a public contract. Violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. Violation of division
(A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (F)   It is not a violation of this section for a prosecuting attorney to
appoint assistants and employees in accordance with R.C. §§ 309.06 and
2921.421, or for a chief legal officer of a municipality or an official
designated as prosecutor in a municipality to appoint assistants and employees
in accordance with R.C. §§ 733.621 and 2921.421, or for a township law director
appointed under R.C. § 504.15 to appoint assistants and employees in accordance
with R.C. §§ 504.151 and 2921.421.
   (G)   Any public contract in which a public official, a member of the public
official’s family, or any of the public official’s business associates has an
interest in violation of this section is void and unenforceable. Any contract
securing the investment of public funds in which a public official, a member of
the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s business
associates has an interest, is an underwriter, or receives any brokerage,
origination or servicing fees and that was entered into in violation of this
section is void and unenforceable.
   (H)   As used in this section:
      CHIEF LEGAL OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 733.621.
      PUBLIC CONTRACT. Means any of the following:
         (a)   The purchase or acquisition, or a contract for the purchase or
acquisition, of property or services by or for the use of the state or any of
its political subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of either,
including the employment of an individual by the state, any of its political
subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of either.
         (b)   A contract for the design, construction, alteration, repair, or
maintenance of any public property.
(R.C. § 2921.42)
Statutory reference:
   Assistants and employees of Prosecutors, Law Directors, and Solicitors, see
R.C. § 2921.421
§ 136.10 SOLICITING OR RECEIVING IMPROPER COMPENSATION.
   (A)   No public servant shall knowingly solicit or accept and no person
shall knowingly promise or give to a public servant either of the following:
      (1)   Any compensation, other than as allowed by R.C. § 102.03(G), (H),
(I), or other provisions of law, to perform the public servant’s official
duties, to perform any other act or service in the public servant’s public
capacity, for the general performance of the duties of the public servant’s
public office or public employment, or as a supplement to the public servant’s
public compensation.
      (2)   Additional or greater fees or costs than are allowed by law to
perform the public servant’s official duties.
   (B)   No public servant for the public servant’s own personal or business
use and no person for the person’s own personal or business use or for the
personal or business use of a public servant or party official, shall solicit
or accept anything of value in consideration of either of the following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining, or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment, or agency.
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion, or other
material aspects of employment.
   (C)   No person for the benefit of a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee or political contributing
entity shall coerce any contribution in consideration of either of the
following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining, or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment, or agency.
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion, or other
material aspects of employment.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of soliciting improper
compensation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (E)   A public servant who is convicted of a violation of this section is
disqualified from holding any public office, employment, or position of trust
in this state for a period of seven years from the date of conviction.
   (F)   Divisions (A), (B), and (C) of this section do not prohibit any person
from making voluntary contributions to a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee or political contributing
entity or prohibit a political party, campaign committee, legislative campaign
fund, political action committee or political contributing entity from
accepting voluntary contributions.
(R.C. § 2921.43)
§ 136.11 DERELICTION OF DUTY.
   (A)   No law enforcement officer shall negligently do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to serve a lawful warrant without delay.
      (2)   Fail to prevent or halt the commission of an offense or to
apprehend an offender, when it is in the law enforcement officer’s power to do
so alone or with available assistance.
   (B)   No law enforcement, ministerial, or judicial officer shall negligently
fail to perform a lawful duty in a criminal case or proceeding.
   (C)   No officer, having charge of a detention facility, shall negligently
do any of the following:
      (1)   Allow the detention facility to become littered or unsanitary.
      (2)   Fail to provide persons confined in the detention facility with
adequate food, clothing, bedding, shelter, and medical attention.
      (3)   Fail to control an unruly prisoner, or to prevent intimidation of
or physical harm to a prisoner by another.
      (4)   Allow a prisoner to escape.
      (5)   Fail to observe any lawful and reasonable regulation for the
management of the detention facility.
   (D)   No public official shall recklessly create a deficiency, incur a
liability, or expend a greater sum than is appropriated by the Legislative
Authority for the use in any one year of the department, agency, or institution
with which the public official is connected.
   (E)   No public servant shall recklessly fail to perform a duty expressly
imposed by law with respect to the public servant’s office, or recklessly do
any act expressly forbidden by law with respect to the public servant’s office.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of dereliction of duty, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   Except as otherwise provided by law, a public servant who is a county
treasurer; county auditor; township fiscal officer; city auditor; city
treasurer; village fiscal officer; village clerk-treasurer; village clerk; in
the case of a municipal corporation having a charter that designates an officer
who, by virtue of the charter, has duties and functions similar to those of the
city or village officers referred to in this section, the officer so designated
by the charter; school district treasurer; fiscal officer of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314; treasurer of a science, technology,
engineering, and mathematics school established under R.C. Chapter 3326; or
fiscal officer of a college-preparatory boarding school established under R.C.
Chapter 3328 and is convicted of or pleads guilty to dereliction of duty is
disqualified from holding any public office, employment, or position of trust
in this state for four years following the date of conviction or of entry of
the plea, and is not entitled to hold any public office until any repayment or
restitution required by the court is satisfied.
   (H)   As used in this section, PUBLIC SERVANT includes the following:
      (1)   An officer or employee of a contractor as defined in R.C. § 9.08;
      (2)   A fiscal officer employed by the operator of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314 or by the operator of a college-preparatory
boarding school established under R.C. Chapter 3328.
(R.C. § 2921.44)
§ 136.12 INTERFERING WITH CIVIL RIGHTS.
   (A)   No public servant, under color of the public servant’s office,
employment, or authority, shall knowingly deprive, or conspire or attempt to
deprive any person of a constitutional or statutory right.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interfering with civil
rights, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.45)
Statutory reference:
   Restraining or confining pregnant children or pregnant women, see R.C. §
2152.75(B) and R.C. § 2901.10
§ 136.13 ILLEGAL CONVEYANCE OF PROHIBITED ITEMS ONTO GROUNDS OF A DETENTION
FACILITY OR OTHER SPECIFIED GOVERNMENTAL FACILITY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly convey, or attempt to convey, onto the
grounds of a detention facility or of an institution, office building, or other
place that is under the control of the Department of Mental Health and
Addiction Services, the Department of Developmental Disabilities, the
Department of Youth Services, or the Department of Rehabilitation and
Correction, any of the following items:
      (1)   Any deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance, as defined in R.C. §
2923.11, or any part of or ammunition for use in such deadly weapon or
dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   Any drug of abuse, as defined in R.C. § 3719.011.
      (3)   Any intoxicating liquor, as defined in R.C. § 4301.01, except for
small amounts of wine for sacramental purposes when the person engaging in the
specified conduct is a cleric, as defined in R.C. § 2317.02.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any person who conveys
or attempts to convey an item onto the grounds of a detention facility or of an
institution, office building, or other place under the control of the
Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services, the Department of
Developmental Disabilities, the Department of Youth Services, or the Department
of Rehabilitation and Correction, with written authorization of the person in
charge of the detention facility or the institution, office building, or other
place and in accordance with the written rules of the detention facility or the
institution, office building, or other place.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly deliver, or attempt to deliver, to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, to a prisoner who is temporarily released from confinement
for a work assignment, or to any patient in an institution under the control of
the Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services or the Department of
Developmental Disabilities, any item listed in division (A).
   (D)   No person shall knowingly deliver or attempt to deliver cash to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, or to a prisoner who is temporarily released from
confinement for a work assignment.
   (E)   No person shall knowingly deliver, or attempt to deliver, to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, or to a prisoner who is temporarily released from
confinement for a work assignment a cellular telephone, two-way radio, or other
electronic communications device.
   (F)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(1)
of this section that the weapon or dangerous ordnance in question was being
transported in a motor vehicle for any lawful purpose, that it was not on the
actor’s person, and if the weapon or dangerous ordnance was a firearm, that it
was unloaded and was being carried in a closed package, box or case or in a
compartment that can be reached only by leaving the vehicle.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (C) of this
section that the actor was not otherwise prohibited by law from delivering the
item to the confined person, the child, the prisoner, or the patient and that
either of the following applies:
         (a)   The actor was permitted by the written rules of the detention
facility or the institution, office building, or other place to deliver the
item to the confined person or the patient.
         (b)   The actor was given written authorization by the person in
charge of the detention facility or the institution, office building, or other
place to deliver the item to the confined person or the patient.
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any item listed in division
(A)(1) of this section is guilty of illegal conveyance of weapons onto the
grounds of a specified governmental facility, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any drug of abuse is guilty
of illegal conveyance of drugs of abuse onto the grounds of a specified
governmental facility, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(3) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any intoxicating liquor is
guilty of illegal conveyance of intoxicating liquor onto the grounds of a
specified governmental facility, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of illegal
conveyance of cash onto the grounds of a detention facility, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (D) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, illegal conveyance of cash onto
the grounds of a detention facility is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of illegal
conveyance of a communications device onto the grounds of a specified
governmental facility, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E)
of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
illegal conveyance of a communications device onto the grounds of a detention
facility is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.36)
   (H)   The person in charge of a detention facility shall, on the grounds of
the detention facility, have the same power as a peace officer, as defined in
R.C. § 2935.01, to arrest a person who violates this section.
(R.C. § 2921.37)
Cross-reference:
   Possession of an object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety
zone, see §
137.11
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, see §
137.12
Statutory reference:
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance on school
premises, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122
   Conveyance, possession, or control of deadly weapon or dangerous ordinance
in a courthouse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.123
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offense, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
§ 136.14 FALSE REPORT OF CHILD ABUSE OR NEGLECT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make or cause another person to make a false
report under R.C. § 2151.421(B) alleging that any person has committed an act
or omission that resulted in a child being an abused child as defined in R.C. §
2151.031 or a neglected child as defined in R.C. § 2151.03.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or causing a false
report of child abuse or child neglect, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.14)
§ 136.15 ASSAULTING POLICE DOG OR HORSE, OR ASSISTANCE DOG.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
a police dog or horse in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The police dog or horse is assisting a law enforcement officer in
the performance of the officer’s official duties at the time the physical harm
is caused or attempted.
      (2)   The police dog or horse is not assisting a law enforcement officer
in the performance of the officer’s official duties at the time the physical
harm is caused or attempted, but the offender has actual knowledge that the dog
or horse is a police dog or horse.
   (B)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment, or strike a police dog or horse;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at a police dog or horse;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct a police dog or horse, or interfere with
or obstruct a law enforcement officer who is being assisted by a police dog or
horse, in a manner that does any of the following:
         (a)   Inhibits or restricts the law enforcement officer’s control of
the police dog or horse;
         (b)   Deprives the law enforcement officer of control of the police
dog or horse;
         (c)   Releases the police dog or horse from its area of control;
         (d)   Enters the area of control of the police dog or horse without
the consent of the law enforcement officer, including placing food or any other
object or substance into that area;
         (e)   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the police dog or horse to
assist a law enforcement officer;
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to a police dog or horse;
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger a police dog or horse that at the time of the conduct, the
police dog or horse is assisting a law enforcement officer in the performance
of the officer’s duties or that the person knows is a police dog or horse.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
an assistance dog in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The dog, at the time the physical harm is caused or attempted, is
assisting or serving a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or a
person with a mobility impairment.
      (2)   The dog, at the time the physical harm is caused or attempted, is
not assisting or serving a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or a
person with a mobility impairment, but the offender has actual knowledge that
the dog is an assistance dog.
   (D)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment, or strike an assistance dog;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at an assistance dog;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct an assistance dog, or interfere with or
obstruct a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or a person with a
mobility impairment who is being assisted or served by an assistance dog, in a
manner that does any of the following:
         (a)   Inhibits or restricts the assisted or served person’s control of
the dog;
         (b)   Deprives the assisted or served person of control of the dog;
         (c)   Releases the dog from its area of control;
         (d)   Enters the area of control of the dog without the consent of the
assisted or served person, including placing food or any other object or
substance into that area;
         (e)   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the dog to assist the
assisted or served person;
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to an assistance dog;
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger an assistance dog that at the time of the conduct is
assisting or serving a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or a
person with a mobility impairment or that the person knows is an assistance
dog.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
assaulting a police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, assaulting a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. If the violation results in physical harm to the police dog or horse
other than death or serious physical harm, assaulting a police dog or horse is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in serious physical
harm to the police dog or horse or results in its death, assaulting a police
dog or horse is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
harassing a police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided this division,
harassing a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the police dog or horse but does not
result in its death or in serious physical harm to it, harassing a police dog
or horse is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in
serous physical harm to the police dog or horse or results in its death,
harassing a police dog or horse is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
assaulting an assistance dog. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
assaulting an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the assistance dog other than death or
serious physical harm, assaulting an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the violation results in serious physical harm to the
assistance dog or results in its death, assaulting an assistance dog is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of
harassing an assistance dog. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
harassing an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the assistance dog but does not result in
the death or in serious physical harm to it, harassing an assistance dog is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in serious physical
harm to the assistance dog or results in its death, harassing an assistance dog
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   In addition to any other sanctions or penalty imposed for the
offense under this section, R.C. Chapter 2929 or any other provision of the
Ohio Revised Code or this code, whoever violates division (A), (B), (C), or (D)
of this section is responsible for the payment of all of the following:
         (a)   Any veterinary bill or bill for medication incurred as a result
of the violation by the police department regarding a violation of division (A)
or (B) of this section or by the person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired
or the person with a mobility impairment assisted or served by the assistance
dog regarding a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section;
         (b)   The cost of any damaged equipment that results from the
violation;
         (c)   If the violation did not result in the death of the police dog
or horse or the assistance dog that was the subject of the violation and if, as
a result of that dog or horse being the subject of the violation, the dog or
horse needs further training or retraining to be able to continue in the
capacity of a police dog or horse or an assistance dog, the cost of any further
training or retraining of that dog or horse by a law enforcement officer or by
the person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or the person with a
mobility impairment assisted or served by the assistance dog;
         (d)   If the violation resulted in the death of the assistance dog
that was the subject of the violation or resulted in serious physical harm to
the police dog or horse or the assistance dog or horse that was the subject of
the violation to the extent that the dog or horse needs to be replaced on
either a temporary or a permanent basis, the cost of replacing that dog or
horse and of any further training of a new police dog or horse or a new
assistance dog by a law enforcement officer or by the person who is blind,
deaf, or hearing impaired or the person with a mobility impairment assisted or
served by the assistance dog, which replacement or training is required because
of the death of or the serious physical harm to the dog or horse that was the
subject of the violation.
   (F)   This section does not apply to a licensed veterinarian whose conduct
is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4741.
   (G)   This section only applies to an offender who knows or should know at
the time of the violation that the police dog or horse or assistance dog that
is the subject of a violation under this section is a police dog or horse or an
assistance dog.
   (H)   As used in this section:
      ASSISTANCE DOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
      BLIND. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
      PERSON WITH A MOBILITY IMPAIRMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
955.011.
      PHYSICAL HARM. Means any injury, illness, or other psychological
impairment, regardless of its gravity or duration.
      POLICE DOG OR HORSE. Means a dog or horse that has been trained and may
be used to assist law enforcement officers in the performance of their official
duties.
      SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death.
         (b)   Any physical harm that causes permanent maiming or that involves
some temporary, substantial maiming.
         (c)   Any physical harm that causes acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering.
(R.C. § 2921.321)
§ 136.16 DISCLOSURE OF CONFIDENTIAL PEACE OFFICER INFORMATION.
   (A)   No officer or employee of a law enforcement agency or court, or of the
clerk’s office of any court, shall disclose during the pendency of any criminal
case the home address of any peace officer, parole officer, prosecuting
attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or youth
services employee who is a witness or arresting officer in the case.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not prohibit a peace officer, parole
officer, prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional
employee, or youth services employee from disclosing the peace officer’s,
parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant prosecuting attorney’s,
correctional employee’s, or youth services employee’s own home address, and
does not apply to any person who discloses the home address of a peace officer,
parole officer, prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney,
correctional employee, or youth services employee pursuant to a court-ordered
disclosure under division (C) of this section.
   (C)   The court in which any criminal case is pending may order the
disclosure of the home address of any peace officer, parole officer,
prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or
youth services employee who is a witness or arresting officer in the case, if
the court determines after a written request for the disclosure that good cause
exists for disclosing the home address of the peace officer, parole officer,
prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or
youth services employee.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of disclosure
of confidential information, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2921.24)
   (E)   No judge of a court of record, or Mayor presiding over a Mayor’s
Court, shall order a peace officer, parole officer, prosecuting attorney,
assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or youth services
employee who is a witness in a criminal case, to disclose the peace officer’s,
parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant prosecuting attorney’s,
correctional employee’s, or youth services employee’s home address during the
peace officer’s, parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant
prosecuting attorney’s, correctional employee’s, or youth services employee’s
examination in the case unless the judge or Mayor determines that the defendant
has a right to the disclosure.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
      CORRECTIONAL EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 149.43.
      YOUTH SERVICES EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 149.43.
(R.C. § 2921.25)
§ 136.17 INTIMIDATION OF CRIME VICTIM OR WITNESS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly attempt to intimidate or hinder the victim
of a crime or delinquent act in the filing or prosecution of criminal charges
or a delinquent child action or proceeding, and no person shall knowingly
attempt to intimidate a witness to a criminal or delinquent act by reason of
the person being a witness to that act.
   (B)   No person, knowingly and by force or by unlawful threat of harm to any
person or property or by unlawful threat to commit any offense or calumny
against any person, shall attempt to influence, intimidate, or hinder any of
the following persons:
      (1)   The victim of a crime or delinquent act in the filing or
prosecution of criminal charges or a delinquent child action or proceeding;
      (2)   A witness to a criminal or delinquent act by reason of the person
being a witness to that act;
      (3)   An attorney by reason of the attorney’s involvement in any criminal
or delinquent child action or proceeding.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any person who is
attempting to resolve a dispute pertaining to the alleged commission of a
criminal offense, either prior to or subsequent to the filing of a complaint,
indictment, or information by participating in the arbitration, mediation,
compromise, settlement or conciliation of that dispute pursuant to an
authorization for arbitration, mediation, compromise, settlement, or
conciliation of a dispute of that nature that is conferred by any of the
following:
      (1)   A section of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (2)   The Rules of Criminal Procedure, the Rules of Superintendence for
Municipal Courts and County Courts, the Rules of Superintendence for Courts of
Common Pleas, or another rule adopted by the Ohio Supreme Court in accordance
with Ohio Constitution, Article IV, Section 5.
      (3)   A local rule of court, including but not limited to a local rule of
court that relates to alternative dispute resolution or other case management
programs and that authorizes the referral of disputes pertaining to the alleged
commission of certain types of criminal offenses to appropriate and available
arbitration, mediation, compromise, settlement or other conciliation programs.
      (4)   The order of a judge of a municipal court, county court, or court
of common pleas.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of intimidation of an
attorney, victim or witness in a criminal case. A violation of division (A) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. A violation of division (B)
of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (E)   As used in this section, WITNESS means any person who has or claims to
have knowledge concerning a fact or facts concerning a criminal or delinquent
act, whether or not criminal or delinquent child charges are actually filed.
(R.C. § 2921.04)
Statutory reference:
   Retaliation, felony offense, see R.C. § 2921.05
§ 136.18 USING SHAM LEGAL PROCESS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      LAWFULLY ISSUED. Means adopted, issued, or rendered in accordance with
the United States Constitution, the Constitution of a state, and the applicable
statutes, rules, regulations and ordinances of the United States, a state, and
the political subdivisions of a state.
      POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS. Means municipal corporations, townships,
counties, school districts, and all other bodies corporate and politic that are
organized under state law and are responsible for governmental activities only
in geographical areas smaller than that of a state.
      SHAM LEGAL PROCESS. Means an instrument that meets all of the following
conditions:
         (a)   It is not lawfully issued.
         (b)   It purports to do any of the following:
            1.   To be a summons, subpoena, judgment, or order of a court, a
law enforcement officer, or a legislative, executive or administrative body.
            2.   To assert jurisdiction over or determine the legal or
equitable status, rights, duties, powers, or privileges of any person or
property.
            3.   To require or authorize the search, seizure, indictment,
arrest, trial, or sentencing of any person or property.
         (c)   It is designed to make another person believe that it is
lawfully issued.
      STATE. Means a state of the United States, including without limitation
the state legislature, the highest court of the state that has statewide
jurisdiction, the offices of all elected state officers, and all departments,
boards, offices, commissions, agencies, institutions, and other
instrumentalities of the state. The term does not include the political
subdivisions of the state.
   (B)   No person shall, knowing the sham legal process to be a sham legal
process, do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly issue, display, deliver, distribute, or otherwise use
sham legal process.
      (2)   Knowingly use sham legal process to arrest, detain, search or seize
any person or the property of another person.
      (3)   Knowingly commit or facilitate the commission of an offense using
sham legal process.
      (4)   Knowingly commit a felony by using sham legal process.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(1) or (B)
(2) of this section that the use of sham legal process was for a lawful
purpose.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of using sham legal process. A
violation of division (B)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. A violation of division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree, except that if the purpose of a violation of
division (B)(3) of this section is to commit or facilitate the commission of a
felony, a violation of division (B)(3) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division (B)(4) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.52(A) - (D))
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability, see R.C. § 2921.52(E)
§ 136.19 MAKING FALSE ALLEGATION OF PEACE OFFICER MISCONDUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section, PEACE OFFICER has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2935.01.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly file a complaint against a peace officer
that alleges that the peace officer engaged in misconduct in the performance of
the officer’s duties if the person knows that the allegation is false.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of making a
false allegation of peace officer misconduct, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2921.15)
§ 136.20 MISUSE OF 9-1-1 SYSTEM.
   (A)   As used in this section, 9-1-1 SYSTEM means a system through which
individuals can request emergency service using the access number 9-1-1.
(R.C. § 128.01(A))
   (B)   No person shall knowingly use the telephone number of a 9-1-1 system
established under R.C. Chapter 128 to report an emergency if the person knows
that no emergency exists.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly use a 9-1-1 system for a purpose other than
obtaining emergency service.
   (D)   No person shall disclose or use any information concerning telephone
numbers, addresses, or names obtained from the database that serves the public
safety answering point of a 9-1-1 system established under R.C. Chapter 128,
except for any of the following purposes or under any of the following
circumstances:
      (1)   For the purpose of the 9-1-1 system;
      (2)   For the purpose of responding to an emergency call to an emergency
service provider;
      (3)   In the circumstance of the inadvertent disclosure of such
information due solely to technology of the wireless telephone network portion
of the 9-1-1 system not allowing access to the database to be restricted to 9-
1-1 specific answering lines at a public safety answering point;
      (4)   In the circumstance of access to a database being given by a
telephone company that is a wireless service provider to a public utility or
municipal utility in handling customer calls in times of public emergency or
service outages. The charge, terms, and conditions for the disclosure or use of
such information for the purpose of such access to a database shall be subject
to the jurisdiction of the Steering Committee;
      (5)   In the circumstance of access to a database given by a telephone
company that is a wireline service provider to a state and local government in
warning of a public emergency, as determined by the Steering Committee. The
charge, terms and conditions for the disclosure or use of that information for
the purpose of access to a database is subject to the jurisdiction of the
Steering Committee.
(R.C. § 128.96(F) - (H))
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 128.99(A), (B))
§ 136.21 FAILURE TO DISCLOSE PERSONAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   No person who is in a public place shall refuse to disclose the
person’s name, address, or date of birth, when requested by a law enforcement
officer who reasonably suspects either of the following:
      (1)   The person is committing, has committed, or is about to commit a
criminal offense.
      (2)   The person witnessed any of the following:
         (a)   An offense of violence that would constitute a felony under the
laws of this state;
         (b)   A felony offense that causes or results in, or creates a
substantial risk of, serious physical harm to another person or property;
         (c)   Any attempt or conspiracy to commit, or complicity in
committing, any offenses identified in division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this
section;
         (d)   Any conduct reasonably indicating that any offense identified in
division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this section or any attempt, conspiracy, or
complicity described in division (A)(2)(c) of this section has been, is being,
or is about to be committed.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of failure to
disclose one’s personal information, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (C)   Nothing in division (A) of this section requires a person to answer
any questions beyond that person’s name, address, or date of birth. Nothing in
division (A) of this section authorizes a law enforcement officer to arrest a
person for not providing any information beyond the person’s name, address, or
date of birth or for refusing to describe the offense observed.
   (D)   It is not a violation of division (A) of this section to refuse to
answer a question that would reveal a person’s age or date of birth if age is
an element of the crime that the person is suspected of committing.
(R.C. § 2921.29)
   (E)   No person entering an airport, train station, port, or other similar
critical transportation infrastructure site shall refuse to show identification
when requested by a law enforcement officer when there is a threat to security
and the law enforcement officer is requiring identification of all persons
entering the site.
   (F)   A law enforcement officer may prevent any person who refuses to show
identification when asked under the circumstances described in division (E) of
this section from entering the critical transportation infrastructure site.
(R.C. § 2909.31)
CHAPTER 137: WEAPONS CONTROL
Section
   
137.01   Definitions
   
137.02   Carrying concealed weapons
   
137.03   Using weapons while intoxicated
   
137.04   Improperly handling firearms in a motor vehicle
   
137.05   Possessing criminal tools
   
137.06   Failure to secure dangerous ordnance
   
137.07   Unlawful transactions in weapons
   
137.08   Underage purchase of firearm or handgun
   
137.09   Pointing and discharging firearms and other weapons
   
137.10   License or permit to possess dangerous ordnance
   
137.11   Possession of an object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school
safety zone
   
137.12   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention
   
137.13   Concealed handgun licenses: possession of a revoked or suspended
license; additional restrictions; posting of signs prohibiting possession
   
137.14   Defaced firearms
Cross-reference:
   Conveyance into certain facilities, see §
136.13
   Injury to persons by hunters, see §
135.05
   Injury to property by hunters, see §
131.24
   Using weapons to endanger or damage aircraft or airport operations, see §
131.05
Statutory reference:
   Return of surrendered firearms by law enforcement, see R.C. § 2923.163
§ 137.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE DUTY. Has the same meaning as defined in 10 U.S.C. § 101.
   ALIEN REGISTRATION NUMBER. The number issued by the United States
Citizenship and Immigration Services Agency that is located on the alien’s
permanent resident card and may also be commonly referred to as the “USCIS
number” or the “alien number”.
   AUTOMATIC FIREARM. Any firearm designed or specially adapted to fire a
succession of cartridges with a single function of the trigger.
   BALLISTIC KNIFE. A knife with a detachable blade that is propelled by a
spring-operated mechanism.
   CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSE or LICENSE TO CARRY A CONCEALED HANDGUN.
      (1)   Means, subject to division (2) of this definition, a license or
temporary emergency license to carry a concealed handgun issued under R.C. §
2923.125 or R.C. § 2923.1213 or a license to carry a concealed handgun issued
by another state with which the Attorney General has entered into a reciprocity
agreement under R.C. § 109.69.
      (2)   A reference in any provision of this Code to a concealed handgun
license issued under R.C. § 2923.125 or a license to carry a concealed handgun
issued under R.C. § 2923.125 means only a license of the type that is specified
in that section. A reference in any provision of this Code to a concealed
handgun license issued under R.C. § 2923.1213, a license to carry a concealed
handgun issued under R.C. § 2923.1213, or a license to carry a concealed
handgun on a temporary emergency basis means only a license of the type that is
specified in R.C. § 2923.1213. A reference in any provision of this Code to a
concealed handgun license issued by another state or a license to carry a
concealed handgun issued by another state means only a license issued by
another state with which the Attorney General has entered into a reciprocity
agreement under R.C. § 109.69.
   DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
      (1)   Any of the following, except as provided in division (2) of this
definition:
         (a)   Any automatic or sawed-off firearm, zip-gun, or ballistic knife.
         (b)   Any explosive device or incendiary device.
         (c)   Nitroglycerin, nitrocellulose, nitrostarch, PETN, cyclonite,
TNT, picric acid, and other high explosives; amatol, tritonal, tetrytol,
pentolite, pecretol, cyclotol, and other high explosive compositions; plastic
explosives; dynamite, blasting gelatin, gelatin dynamite, sensitized ammonium
nitrate, liquid-oxygen blasting explosives, blasting powder, and other blasting
agents; and any other explosive substance having sufficient brisance or power
to be particularly suitable for use as a military explosive, or for use in
mining, quarrying, excavating, or demolitions.
         (d)   Any firearm, rocket launcher, mortar, artillery piece, grenade,
mine, bomb, torpedo, or similar weapon, designed and manufactured for military
purposes, and the ammunition for that weapon.
         (e)   Any firearm muffler or suppressor.
         (f)   Any combination of parts that is intended by the owner for use
in converting any firearm or other device into a dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   The term does not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any firearm, including a military weapon and the ammunition for
that weapon, and regardless of its actual age, that employs a percussion cap or
other obsolete ignition system, or that is designed and safe for use only with
black powder.
         (b)   Any pistol, rifle, or shotgun, designed or suitable for sporting
purposes, including a military weapon as issued or as modified, and the
ammunition for that weapon, unless the firearm is an automatic or sawed-off
firearm.
         (c)   Any cannon or other artillery piece that, regardless of its
actual age, is of a type in accepted use prior to 1887, has no mechanical,
hydraulic, pneumatic, or other system for absorbing recoil and returning the
tube into battery without displacing the carriage, and is designed and safe for
use only with black powder.
         (d)   Black powder, priming quills, and percussion caps possessed and
lawfully used to fire a cannon of a type defined in division (2)(c) of this
definition during displays, celebrations, organized matches or shoots, and
target practice, and smokeless and black powder, primers, and percussion caps
possessed and lawfully used as a propellant or ignition device in small-arms or
small- arms ammunition.
         (e)   Dangerous ordnance that is inoperable or inert and cannot
readily be rendered operable or activated, and that is kept as a trophy,
souvenir, curio, or museum piece.
         (f)   Any device that is expressly excepted from the definition of a
destructive device pursuant to the Gun Control Act of 1968, 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)
(4), as amended, and regulations issued under that act.
         (g)   Any firearm with an overall length of at least 26 inches that is
approved for sale by the Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and
Explosives under the “Gun Control Act of 1968”, 82 Stat. 1213, 18 U.S.C. § 921
(a)(3), but that is found by the Bureau not to be regulated under the “National
Firearms Act”, 68A Stat. 725 (1934), 26 U.S.C. § 5845(a).
   DEADLY WEAPON. Any instrument, device, or thing capable of inflicting death,
and designed or specially adapted for use as a weapon, or possessed, carried,
or used as a weapon.
   EXPLOSIVE. Any chemical compound, mixture, or device, the primary or common
purpose of which is to function by explosion. The term includes all materials
that have been classified as division 1.1, division 1.2, division 1.3, or
division 1.4 explosives by the United States Department of Transportation in
its regulations and includes but is not limited to dynamite, black powder,
pellet powders, initiating explosives, blasting caps, electric blasting caps,
safety fuses, fuse igniters, squibs, cordeau detonant fuses, instantaneous
fuses, and igniter cords and igniters. The term does not include “fireworks”,
as defined in R.C. § 3743.01, or any substance or material otherwise meeting
the definition of explosive set forth in this section that is manufactured,
sold, possessed, transported, stored, or used in any activity described in R.C.
§ 3743.80, provided the activity is conducted in accordance with all applicable
laws, rules, and regulations, including but not limited to the provisions of
R.C. § 3743.80 and the rules of the Fire Marshal adopted pursuant to R.C. §
3737.82.
   EXPLOSIVE DEVICE. Any device designed or specially adapted to cause physical
harm to persons or property by means of an explosion, and consisting of an
explosive substance or agency and a means to detonate it. The term includes
without limitation any bomb, any explosive demolition device, any blasting cap
or detonator containing an explosive charge, and any pressure vessel that has
been knowingly tampered with or arranged so as to explode.
   FIREARM.
      (1)   Any deadly weapon capable of expelling or propelling one or more
projectiles by the action of an explosive or combustible propellant. The term
includes an unloaded firearm, and any firearm that is inoperable but that can
readily be rendered operable.
      (2)   When determining whether a firearm is capable of expelling or
propelling one or more projectiles by the action of an explosive or combustible
propellant, the trier of fact may rely upon circumstantial evidence, including
but not limited to the representations and actions of the individual exercising
control over the firearm.
   HANDGUN. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any firearm that has a short stock and is designed to be held and
fired by the use of a single hand;
      (2)   Any combination of parts from which a firearm of a type described
in division (1) of this definition can be assembled.
   INCENDIARY DEVICE. Any firebomb, and any device designed or specially
adapted to cause physical harm to persons or property by means of fire, and
consisting of an incendiary substance or agent and a means to ignite it.
   MISDEMEANOR PUNISHABLE BY IMPRISONMENT FOR A TERM EXCEEDING ONE YEAR. The
phrase does not include any of the following:
      (1)   Any federal or state offense pertaining to antitrust violations,
unfair trade practices, restraints of trade, or other similar offenses relating
to the regulation of business practices;
      (2)   Any misdemeanor offense punishable by a term of imprisonment of two
years or less.
   SAWED-OFF FIREARM. A shotgun with a barrel less than 18 inches long, or a
rifle with a barrel less than 16 inches long, or a shotgun or rifle less than
26 inches long overall. “Sawed-off firearm” does not include any firearm with
an overall length of at least 26 inches that is approved for sale by the
Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives under the “Gun
Control Act of 1968”, 82 Stat. 1213, 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)(3), but that is found
by the Bureau not to be regulated under the “National Firearms Act”, 68A Stat.
725 (1934), 26 U.S.C. § 5845(a).
   SEMI-AUTOMATIC FIREARM. Any firearm designed or specially adapted to fire a
single cartridge and automatically chamber a succeeding cartridge ready to
fire, with a single function of the trigger.
   VALID CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSE or VALID LICENSE TO CARRY A CONCEALED
HANDGUN. A concealed handgun license that is currently valid, that is not under
a suspension under R.C. § 2923.128(A)(1), under R.C. § 2923.1213, or under a
suspension provision of the state other than this state in which the license
was issued, and that has not been revoked under R.C. § 2923.128(B)(1), under
R.C. § 2923.1213, or under a revocation provision of the state other than this
state in which the license was issued.
   ZIP-GUN. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any firearm of crude and extemporized manufacture.
      (2)   Any device, including without limitation a starter’s pistol, not
designed as a firearm, but that is specially adapted for use as a firearm.
      (3)   Any industrial tool, signaling device, or safety device, not
designed as a firearm, but that as designed is capable of use as such, when
possessed, carried, or used as a firearm.
(R.C. § 2923.11)
§ 137.02 CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly carry or have, concealed on the person’s
person or concealed ready at hand, any of the following:
      (1)   A deadly weapon other than a handgun;
      (2)   A handgun other than a dangerous ordnance;
      (3)   A dangerous ordnance.
   (B)   No person who has been issued a concealed handgun license shall do any
of the following:
      (1)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, before or at the time a law enforcement officer
asks if the person is carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to disclose
that the person then is carrying a concealed handgun, provided that it is not a
violation of this division if the person fails to disclose that fact to an
officer during the stop and the person already has notified another officer of
that fact during the same stop;
      (2)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to keep the person’s hands in
plain sight at any time after any law enforcement officer begins approaching
the person while stopped and before the law enforcement officer leaves, unless
the failure is pursuant to and in accordance with directions given by a law
enforcement officer;
      (3)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose, if the
person is carrying a concealed handgun, and if the person is approached by any
law enforcement officer while stopped, knowingly remove or attempt to remove
the loaded handgun from the holster, pocket, or other place in which the person
is carrying it, knowingly grasp or hold the loaded handgun, or knowingly have
contact with the loaded handgun by touching it with the person’s hands or
fingers at any time after the law enforcement officer begins approaching and
before the law enforcement officer leaves, unless the person removes, attempts
to remove, grasps, holds, or has contact with the loaded handgun pursuant to
and in accordance with directions given by the law enforcement officer;
      (4)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly disregard or fail to comply with any
lawful order of any law enforcement officer given while the person is stopped,
including but not limited to a specific order to the person to keep the
person’s hands in plain sight.
   (C)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, or to a law enforcement officer, who is authorized to carry
concealed weapons or dangerous ordnance or is authorized to carry handguns and
is acting within the scope of the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties;
         (b)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry concealed weapons or dangerous ordnance or is authorized to carry
handguns, and who is subject to and in compliance with the requirements of R.C.
§ 109.801, unless the appointing authority of the person has expressly
specified that the exemption provided in this division (C)(1)(b) does not apply
to the person;
         (c)   A person’s transportation or storage of a firearm, other than a
firearm described in R.C. § 2923.11(G) to (M), in a motor vehicle for any
lawful purpose if the firearm is not on the actor’s person;
         (d)   A person’s storage or possession of a firearm, other than a
firearm described in R.C. § 2923.11(G) to (M), in the actor’s own home for any
lawful purpose.
      (2)   Division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to any person who
has been issued a concealed handgun license that is valid at the time of the
alleged carrying or possession of a handgun or who, at the time of the alleged
carrying or possession of a handgun, is an active duty member of the armed
forces of the United States and is carrying a valid military identification
card and documentation of successful completion of firearms training that meets
or exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), unless
the person knowingly is in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(1) of this
section of carrying or having control of a weapon other than a handgun and
other than a dangerous ordnance, that the actor was not otherwise prohibited by
law from having the weapon, and that any of the following applies:
      (1)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for
defensive purposes, while the actor was engaged in or was going to or from the
actor’s lawful business or occupation, which business or occupation was of a
character or was necessarily carried on in a manner or at a time or place as to
render the actor particularly susceptible to criminal attack, such as would
justify a prudent person in going armed.
      (2)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for
defensive purposes, while the actor was engaged in a lawful activity and had
reasonable cause to fear a criminal attack upon the actor, a member of the
actor’s family, or the actor’s home, such as would justify a prudent person in
going armed.
      (3)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for any
lawful purpose and while in the actor’s own home.
   (E)   (1)   No person who is charged with a violation of this section shall
be required to obtain a concealed handgun license as a condition for the
dismissal of the charge.
      (2)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty to, or
has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B)(1) of this section as it
existed prior to June 13, 2022, the person may file an application under R.C. §
2953.35 requesting the expungement of the record of conviction.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of carrying concealed
weapons. Except as otherwise provided in this division or divisions (F)(2), (F)
(6), and (F)(7) of this section, carrying concealed weapons in violation of
division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Except as
otherwise provided in this division or divisions (F)(2), (F)(6), and (F)(7) of
this section, if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of
this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance
or of any offense of violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is
either loaded or for which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the
weapon involved is dangerous ordnance, carrying concealed weapons in violation
of division (A) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. Except as otherwise provided in divisions (F)(2), (F)(6), and (F)(7)
of this section, if the offense is committed aboard an aircraft, or with
purpose to carry a concealed weapon aboard an aircraft, regardless of the
weapon involved, carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (A) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A person shall not be arrested for a violation of division (A)(2)
of this section solely because the person does not promptly produce a valid
concealed handgun license. If a person is arrested for a violation of division
(A)(2) of this section and is convicted of or pleads guilty to the violation,
the offender shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   The offender shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor if both of
the following apply:
            1.   Within 10 days after the arrest, the offender presents a
concealed handgun license, which license was valid at the time of the arrest to
the law enforcement agency that employs the arresting officer.
            2.   At the time of the arrest, the offender was not knowingly in a
place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
         (b)   The offender shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined
$500 if all of the following apply:
            1.   The offender previously had been issued a concealed handgun
license, and that license expired within the two years immediately preceding
the arrest.
            2.   Within 45 days after the arrest, the offender presents a
concealed handgun license to the law enforcement agency that employed the
arresting officer, and the offender waives in writing the offender’s right to a
speedy trial on the charge of the violation that is provided in R.C. § 2945.71.
            3.   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
not knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
         (c)   If divisions (F)(2)(a) and (F)(2)(b) and (F)(6) of this section
do not apply, the offender shall be punished under division (F)(1) or (F)(7) of
this section.
      (3)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(1) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(2) or (B)
(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. In
addition to any other penalty or sanction imposed for a misdemeanor violation
of division (B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section, the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2).
      (5)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(3) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (6)   If a person being arrested for a violation of division (A)(2) of
this section is an active duty m ember of the armed forces of the United States
and is carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of
successful completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training
requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), and if at the time of the
violation the person was not knowingly in a place described in R.C. 2923.126
(B), the officer shall not arrest the person for a violation of that division.
If the person is not able to promptly produce a valid military identification
card and documentation of successful completion of firearms training that meets
or exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1) and if
the person is not in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B), the officer shall
issue a citation and the offender shall be assessed a civil penalty of not more
than $500. The citation shall be automatically dismissed and the civil penalty
shall not be assessed if both of the following apply:
         (a)   Within ten days after the issuance of the citation, the offender
presents a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), which were both valid at the time of the
issuance of the citation to the law enforcement agency that employs the citing
officer.
         (b)   At the time of the citation, the offender was not knowingly in a
place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
      (7)   If a person being arrested for a violation of division (A)(2) of
this section is knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B)(5) and is
not authorized to carry a handgun or have a handgun concealed on the person’s
person or concealed ready at hand under that division, the penalty shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person
produces a valid concealed handgun license within ten days after the arrest and
has not previously been convicted or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(A)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a minor misdemeanor;
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (A)
(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
         (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division
(A)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree;
         (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of
division (A)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, or convicted of or pleaded guilty to any offense of
violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is either loaded or for
which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the weapon involved is a
dangerous ordnance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   If a law enforcement officer stops a person to question the person
regarding a possible violation of this section, for a traffic stop, or for any
other law enforcement purpose, if the person surrenders a firearm to the
officer, either voluntarily or pursuant to a request or demand of the officer,
and if the officer does not charge the person with a violation of this section
or arrest the person for any offense, the person is not otherwise prohibited by
law from possessing the firearm, and the firearm is not contraband, the officer
shall return the firearm to the person at the termination of the stop. If a
court orders a law enforcement officer to return a firearm to a person pursuant
to the requirement set forth in this division, R.C. § 2923.163(B) applies.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, “deadly weapon” or “weapon” does not
include any knife, razor, or cutting instrument if the instrument was not used
as a weapon.
(R.C. § 2923.12)
Statutory reference:
    Carrying concealed handguns, licensing through county sheriff, see R.C. §§
2923.124 et seq.
    Concealed carry by a qualifying adult, see R.C. § 2923.111
    Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance on school
premises, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122
    Conveyance, possession, or control of deadly weapon or dangerous ordinance
in a courthouse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.123
    Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offense, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
    Possession of firearm in liquor permit premises, felony offense, see R.C. §
2923.121
§ 137.03 USING WEAPONS WHILE INTOXICATED.
   (A)   No person, while under the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse,
shall carry or use any firearm or dangerous ordnance.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of using weapons while
intoxicated, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2923.15)
§ 137.04 IMPROPERLY HANDLING FIREARMS IN A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly discharge a firearm while in or on a motor
vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a loaded firearm in a
motor vehicle in such a manner that the firearm is accessible to the operator
or any passenger without leaving the vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a firearm in a motor
vehicle, unless the person may lawfully possess that firearm under applicable
law of this state or the United States, the firearm is unloaded, and the
firearm is carried in one of the following ways:
      (1)   In a closed package, box, or case.
      (2)   In a compartment that can be reached only by leaving the vehicle.
      (3)   In plain sight and secured in a rack or holder made for the
purpose.
      (4)   If the firearm is at least 24 inches in overall length as measured
from the muzzle to the part of the stock furthest from the muzzle and if the
barrel is at least 18 inches in length, either in plain sight with the action
open or the weapon stripped, or, if the firearm is of a type on which the
action will not stay open or which cannot easily be stripped, in plain sight.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a loaded handgun in a
motor vehicle if, at the time of that transportation or possession, any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a
combination of them.
      (2)   The person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine
contains a concentration of alcohol, a listed controlled substance, or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance prohibited for persons operating a
vehicle, as specified in R.C. § 4511.19(A), regardless of whether the person at
the time of the transportation or possession as described in this division is
the operator of or a passenger in the motor vehicle.
   (E)   No person who has been issued a concealed handgun license or who is an
active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is carrying a
valid military identification card and documentation of successful completion
of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements described
in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), who is the driver or an occupant of a motor vehicle
that is stopped as a result of a traffic stop or a stop for another law
enforcement purpose or is the driver or an occupant of a commercial motor
vehicle that is stopped by an employee of the motor carrier enforcement unit
for the purposes defined in R.C. § 5503.34, and who is transporting or has a
loaded handgun in the motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle in any manner,
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Before or at the time a law enforcement officer asks if the person
is carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to disclose that the person
then possesses or has a loaded handgun in the motor vehicle, provided that it
is not a violation of this division if the person fails to disclose that fact
to an officer during the stop and the person already has notified another
officer of that fact during the same stop;
      (2)   Before or at the time an employee of the motor carrier enforcement
unit asks if the person is carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to
disclose that the person then possesses or has a loaded handgun in the
commercial motor vehicle, provided that it is not a violation of this division
if the person fails to disclose that fact to an employee of the unit during the
stop and the person already has notified another employee of the unit of that
fact during the same stop;
      (3)   Knowingly fail to remain in the motor vehicle while stopped, or
knowingly fail to keep the person’s hands in plain sight at any time after any
law enforcement officer begins approaching the person while stopped and before
the law enforcement officer leaves, unless the failure is pursuant to and in
accordance with directions given by a law enforcement officer;
      (4)   Knowingly have contact with the loaded handgun by touching it with
the person’s hands or fingers in the motor vehicle at any time after the law
enforcement officer begins approaching and before the law enforcement officer
leaves, unless the person has contact with the loaded handgun pursuant to and
in accordance with directions given by the law enforcement officer.
      (5)   Knowingly disregard or fail to comply with any lawful order of any
law enforcement officer given while the motor vehicle is stopped, including but
not limited to a specific order to the person to keep the person’s hands in
plain sight.
   (F)   (1)   Divisions (A), (B), (C), and (E) of this section do not apply to
any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, or a law enforcement officer, when authorized to carry or have
loaded or accessible firearms in motor vehicles and acting within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties;
         (b)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry or have loaded or accessible firearms in motor vehicles, and who is
subject to and in compliance with the requirements of R.C. § 109.801, unless
the appointing authority of the person has expressly specified that the
exemption provided in this division (F)(1)(b) does not apply to the person.
      (2)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a person if all of
the following circumstances apply:
         (a)   The person discharges a firearm from a motor vehicle at a coyote
or groundhog, the discharge is not during the deer gun hunting season as set by
the Chief of the Division of Wildlife of the Department of Natural Resources,
and the discharge at the coyote or groundhog, but for the operation of this
section, is lawful.
         (b)   The motor vehicle from which the person discharges the firearm
is on real property that is located in an unincorporated area of a township and
that is either zoned for agriculture or is used for agriculture.
         (c)   The person owns the real property described in division (F)(2)
(b) of this section, is the spouse or a child of another person who owns that
real property, is a tenant of another person who owns that real property, or is
the spouse or a child of a tenant of another person who owns that real
property.
         (d)   The person does not discharge the firearm in any of the
following manners:
            1.   While under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
alcohol and a drug of abuse;
            2.   In the direction of a street, highway or other public or
private property used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking;
            3.   At or into an occupied structure that is a permanent or
temporary habitation;
            4.   In the commission of any violation of law, including but not
limited to a felony that includes, as an essential element, purposely or
knowingly causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to
another and that was committed by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle.
      (3)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a person if all of
the following apply:
         (a)   The person possesses a valid all-purpose vehicle permit issued
under R.C. § 1533.103 by the Chief of the Division of Wildlife.
         (b)   The person discharges a firearm at a wild quadruped or game bird
as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 during the open hunting season for the applicable
wild quadruped or game bird.
         (c)   The person discharges a firearm from a stationary all-purpose
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 from private or publicly owned lands or
from a motor vehicle that is parked on a road that is owned or administered by
the Division of Wildlife.
         (d)   The person does not discharge the firearm in any of the
following manners:
            1.   While under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
alcohol and a drug of abuse;
            2.   In the direction of a street, a highway, or other public or
private property that is used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking;
            3.   At or into an occupied structure that is a permanent or
temporary habitation;
            4.   In the commission of any violation of law, including but not
limited to a felony that includes, as an essential element, purposely or
knowingly causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to
another and that was committed by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle.
      (4)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person if
all of the following circumstances apply:
         (a)   At the time of the alleged violation of either of those
divisions, the person is the operator of or a passenger in a motor vehicle.
         (b)   The motor vehicle is on real property that is located in an
unincorporated area of a township and that is either zoned for agriculture or
is used for agriculture.
         (c)   The person owns the real property described in division (F)(4)
(b) of this section, is the spouse or a child of another person who owns that
real property, is a tenant of another person who owns that real property, or is
the spouse or a child of a tenant of another person who owns that real
property.
         (d)   The person, prior to arriving at the real property described in
division (F)(4)(b) of this section, did not transport or possess a firearm in
the motor vehicle in a manner prohibited by division (B) or (C) of this section
while the motor vehicle was being operated on a street, highway or other public
or private property used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking.
      (5)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person who
transports or possesses a handgun in a motor vehicle if, at the time of that
transportation or possession, both of the following apply:
         (a)   The person transporting or possessing the handgun has been
issued a concealed handgun license that is valid at the time in question or the
person is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         (b)   The person transporting or possessing the handgun is not
knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
      (6)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person if
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person possesses a valid all-purpose vehicle permit issued
under R.C. § 1533.103 by the Chief of the Division of Wildlife.
         (b)   The person is on or in an all-purpose vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 1531.01 or a motor vehicle during the open hunting season for a wild
quadruped or game bird.
         (c)   The person is on or in an all-purpose vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 1531.01 on private or publicly owned lands or on or in a motor vehicle that
is parked on a road that is owned or administered by the Division of Wildlife.
   (G)   (1)   The affirmative defenses authorized in R.C. § 2923.12(D)(1) and
(D)(2) are affirmative defenses to a charge under division (B) or (C) of this
section that involves a firearm other than a handgun.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B) or (C)
of this section of improperly handling firearms in a motor vehicle that the
actor transported or had the firearm in the motor vehicle for any lawful
purpose and while the motor vehicle was on the actor’s own property, provided
that this affirmative defense is not available unless the person, immediately
prior to arriving at the actor’s own property, did not transport or possess the
firearm in a motor vehicle in a manner prohibited by division (B) or (C) of
this section while the motor vehicle was being operated on a street, highway,
or other public or private property used by the public for vehicular traffic.
   (H)   (1)   No person who is charged with a violation of division (B), (C),
or (D) of this section shall be required to obtain a concealed handgun license
as a condition for the dismissal of the charge.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty
to, or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E) of this section as it
existed prior to September 30, 2011, and the conduct that was the basis of the
violation no longer would be a violation of division (E) of this section on or
after September 30, 2011, or if a person is convicted of, was convicted of,
pleads guilty to, or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E)(1) or
(E)(2) of this section as it existed prior to June 13, 2022, the person may
file an application under R.C. § 2953.35 requesting the expungement of the
record of conviction.
         (b)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty to,
or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B) or (C) of this section as
the division existed prior to September 30, 2011, and if the conduct that was
the basis of the violation no longer would be a violation of division (B) or
(C) of this section on or after September 30, 2011, due to the application of
division (F)(5) of this section as it exists on and after September 30, 2011,
the person may file an application under R.C. § 2953.35 requesting the
expungement of the record of conviction.
   (I)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of improperly handling
firearms in a motor vehicle. A violation of division (A) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division
(C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. A violation of
division (D) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law and, if the loaded handgun is concealed on the person’s person, it is
also a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of
division (E)(1) or (E)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (E)(4) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division (E)(3) or (E)
(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(E)(3) or (E)(5) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. In
addition to any other penalty or sanction imposed for a misdemeanor violation
of division (E)(3) or (E)(5) of this section, the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2). A violation of
division (B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (J)   If a law enforcement officer stops a motor vehicle for a traffic stop
or any other purpose, if any person in the motor vehicle surrenders a firearm
to the officer, either voluntarily or pursuant to a request or demand of the
officer, and if the officer does not charge the person with a violation of this
section or arrest the person for any offense, the person is not otherwise
prohibited by law from possessing the firearm, and the firearm is not
contraband, the officer shall return the firearm to the person at the
termination of the stop. If a court orders a law enforcement officer to return
a firearm to a person pursuant to the requirement set forth in this division,
R.C. § 2923.163(B) applies.
   (K)   As used in this section:
      AGRICULTURE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 519.01.
      COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4506.25(A).
      HIGHWAY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      MOTOR CARRIER ENFORCEMENT UNIT. Means the Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit
in the Department of Public Safety, Division of State Highway Patrol, that is
created by R.C. § 5503.34.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      OCCUPIED STRUCTURE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.01.
      STREET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      TENANT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1531.01.
      UNLOADED.
         (a)   With respect to a firearm other than a firearm described in
division (d) of this definition, means that no ammunition is in the firearm in
question, no magazine or speed loader containing ammunition is inserted into
the firearm, and one of the following applies:
            1.   There is no ammunition in a magazine or speed loader that is
in the vehicle in question and that may be used with the firearm in question.
            2.   Any magazine or speed loader that contains ammunition and that
may be used with the firearm in question is stored in a compartment within the
vehicle in question that cannot be accessed without leaving the vehicle or is
stored in a container that provides complete and separate enclosure.
         (b)   For the purposes of division (a)2. of this definition, a
“container that provides complete and separate enclosure” includes, but is not
limited to, any of the following:
            1.   A package, box, or case with multiple compartments, as long as
the loaded magazine or speed loader and the firearm in question either are in
separate compartments within the package, box, or case, or, if they are in the
same compartment, the magazine or speed loader is contained within a separate
enclosure in that compartment that does not contain the firearm and that closes
using a snap, button, buckle, zipper, hook and loop closing mechanism, or other
fastener that must be opened to access the contents or the firearm is contained
within a separate enclosure of that nature in that compartment that does not
contain the magazine or speed loader;
            2.   A pocket or other enclosure on the person of the person in
question that closes using a snap, button, buckle, zipper, hook and loop
closing mechanism, or other fastener that must be opened to access the
contents.
         (c)   For the purposes of divisions (a) and (b) of this definition,
ammunition held in stripper-clips or in en-bloc clips is not considered
ammunition that is loaded into a magazine or speed loader.
         (d)   “Unloaded” means, with respect to a firearm employing a
percussion cap, flintlock, or other obsolete ignition system, when the weapon
is uncapped or when the priming charge is removed from the pan.
   (L)   Divisions (a) and (b) of the definition of “unloaded” in division (K)
of this section do not affect the authority of a person who has been issued a
concealed handgun license that is valid at the time in question to have one or
more magazines or speed loaders containing ammunition anywhere in a vehicle,
without being transported as described in those divisions, as long as no
ammunition is in a firearm, other than a handgun, in the vehicle other than as
permitted under any other provision of this chapter. A person who has been
issued a concealed handgun license that is valid at the time in question may
have one or more magazines or speed loaders containing ammunition anywhere in a
vehicle without further restriction, as long as no ammunition is in a firearm,
other than a handgun, in the vehicle other than as permitted under any
provision of this chapter.
(R.C. § 2923.16)
Statutory reference:
    Return of surrendered firearms by law enforcement, see R.C. § 2923.163
§ 137.05 POSSESSING CRIMINAL TOOLS.
   (A)   No person shall possess or have under his or her control any
substance, device, instrument, or article, with purpose to use it criminally.
   (B)   Each of the following constitutes prima facie evidence of criminal
purpose:
      (1)   Possession or control of any dangerous ordnance, or the materials
or parts for making a dangerous ordnance, in the absence of circumstances
indicating the dangerous ordnance, materials or parts are intended for a
legitimate use.
      (2)   Possession or control of any substance, device, instrument, or
article designed or specially adapted for criminal use.
      (3)   Possession or control of any substance, device, instrument, or
article commonly used for criminal purposes, under circumstances indicating the
item is intended for criminal use.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing criminal tools.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, possessing criminal tools is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the circumstances indicate that the
substance, device, instrument, or article involved in the offense was intended
for use in the commission of a felony, possessing criminal tools is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2923.24)
§ 137.06 FAILURE TO SECURE DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
   (A)   No person, in acquiring, possessing, carrying, or using any dangerous
ordnance, shall negligently fail to take proper precautions:
      (1)   To secure the dangerous ordnance against theft, or against its
acquisition or use by any unauthorized or incompetent person.
      (2)   To insure the safety of persons and property.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to a secure
dangerous ordnance, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2923.19)
§ 137.07 UNLAWFUL TRANSACTIONS IN WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Recklessly sell, lend, give or furnish any firearm to any person
prohibited by R.C. § 2923.13 or 2923.15, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, from acquiring or using any firearm, or recklessly sell,
lend, give or furnish any dangerous ordnance to any person prohibited by R.C. §
2923.13, 2923.15 or 2923.17, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
from acquiring or using any dangerous ordnance;
      (2)   Possess any firearm or dangerous ordnance with purpose to dispose
of it in violation of division (A)(1) of this section;
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section,
knowingly solicit, persuade, encourage, or entice a federally licensed firearms
dealer or private seller to transfer a firearm or ammunition to any person in a
manner prohibited by state or federal law;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section, with
an intent to deceive, knowingly provide materially false information to a
federally licensed firearms dealer or private seller;
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section,
knowingly procure, solicit, persuade, encourage, or entice a person to act in
violation of division (A)(3) or (A)(4) of this section;
      (6)   When transferring any dangerous ordnance to another, negligently
fail to require the transferee to exhibit such identification, license, or
permit showing the transferee to be authorized to acquire dangerous ordnance
pursuant to R.C. § 2923.17, or negligently fail to take a complete record of
the transaction and forthwith forward a copy of the record to the sheriff of
the county or Safety Director or Police Chief of the municipality where the
transaction takes place;
      (7)   Knowingly fail to report to law enforcement authorities forthwith
the loss or theft of any firearm or dangerous ordnance in the person’s
possession and under his or her control.
   (B)   Divisions (A)(3), (A)(4), and (A)(5) of this section do not apply to
any of the following:
      (1)   A law enforcement officer who is acting within the scope of the
officer’s duties;
      (2)   A person who is acting in accordance with directions given by a law
enforcement officer described in division (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful transactions in
weapons. A violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A
violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (A)(7) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      AMMUNITION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.401.
      FEDERALLY LICENSED FIREARMS DEALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5502.63.
      MATERIALLY FALSE INFORMATION. Means information regarding the transfer of
a firearm or ammunition that portrays an illegal transaction as legal or a
legal transaction as illegal.
      PRIVATE SELLER. Means a person who sells, offers for sale, or transfers a
firearm or ammunition and who is not a federally licensed firearms dealer.
(R.C. § 2923.20)
§ 137.08 UNDERAGE PURCHASE OF FIREARM OR HANDGUN.
   (A)   No person under 18 years of age shall purchase or attempt to purchase
a firearm.
   (B)   No person under 21 years of age shall purchase or attempt to purchase
a handgun; provided, that this division does not apply to the purchase or
attempted purchase of a handgun by a person 18 years of age or older and under
21 years of age if either of the following applies:
      (1)   The person is a law enforcement officer and has received firearms
training approved by the Ohio Peace Officer Training Council or equivalent
firearms training.
      (2)   The person is an active or reserve member of the armed services of
the United States or the Ohio National Guard, or was honorably discharged from
military service in the active or reserve armed services of the United States
or the Ohio National Guard, and the person has received firearms training from
the armed services or the national guard or equivalent firearms training.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of underage
purchase of a firearm, a delinquent act that would be a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law if it could be committed by an adult. Whoever
violates division (B) of this section is guilty of underage purchase of a
handgun, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2923.211)
Statutory reference:
   Improperly furnishing firearms to a minor, felony, see R.C. § 2923.21
§ 137.09 POINTING AND DISCHARGING FIREARMS AND OTHER WEAPONS.
   (A)   Discharge of firearms on or near prohibited premises. No person shall
do any of the following:
      (1)   Without permission from the proper officials and subject to
division (B)(1) of this section, discharge a firearm upon or over a cemetery or
within 100 yards of a cemetery;
      (2)   Subject to division (B)(2) of this section, discharge of a firearm
on a lawn, park, pleasure ground, orchard, or other ground appurtenant to a
schoolhouse, church, or inhabited dwelling, the property of another, or a
charitable institution;
      (3)   Discharge a firearm upon or over a public road or highway.
   (B)   Application of division (A).
      (1)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
while on the person’s own land, discharges a firearm.
      (2)   Division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to a person who owns
any type of property described in that division and who, while on the person’s
own enclosure, discharges a firearm.
   (C)   Penalty for violation of division (A). Whoever violates division (A)
of this section is guilty of discharge of a firearm on or near prohibited
premises. A violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. A violation of division (A)(3) shall be
punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) of this section, a
violation of division (A)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   If the violation created a substantial risk of physical harm to any
person, caused serious physical harm to property, caused physical harm to any
person, or caused serious physical harm to any person, a violation of division
(A)(3) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2923.162)
   (D)   Hunting near township park.
      (1)   No person shall hunt, shoot, or kill game within one-half mile of a
township park unless the Board of Township Park Commissioners has granted
permission to kill game not desired within the limits prohibited by this
division.
(R.C. § 3773.06)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (D)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 3773.99(A))
   (E)   Unlawful discharge. No person shall discharge any BB gun, air gun, or
firearm, or make use of any sling, bow and arrow, or crossbow, within the
corporate limits of the municipality.
   (F)   Unlawful pointing or aiming. No person shall, intentionally and
without malice, point or aim any BB gun, air gun, or firearm, or any sling, bow
and arrow, or crossbow at or toward another.
   (G)   Penalty for violations of division (E) or (F). Whoever violates
division (E) or (F) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
   (H)   Exceptions. This section shall not prohibit the firing of a military
salute or the firing of weapons by persons of the nation’s armed forces acting
under military authority, and shall not apply to law enforcement officials or
other government officials in the proper enforcement of the law, or to any
person in the proper exercise of the right of self defense, or to any person
otherwise lawfully permitted by proper federal, state or local authorities to
discharge a BB gun, air gun, or firearm, or to use a sling, bow and arrow, or
crossbow in a manner contrary to the provisions of this section. Division (E)
of this section does not extend to cases in which BB guns, air guns, or
firearms, or slings, bows and arrows, or crossbows are used in the confines of
structures or used within the confines of a person’s own property, provided
such use is under adult supervision and is approved by the municipality.
Statutory reference:
   Improperly discharging firearm at or into habitation or school safety zone,
felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.161
§ 137.10 LICENSE OR PERMIT TO POSSESS DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
   (A)   Upon application to the sheriff of the county or Safety Director or
Police Chief of the municipality where the applicant resides or has the
applicant’s principal place of business, and upon payment of the fee specified
in division (B) of this section, a license or temporary permit shall be issued
to qualified applicants to acquire, possess, carry or use a dangerous ordnance
for the following purposes:
      (1)   Contractors, wreckers, quarriers, mine operators and other persons
regularly employing explosives in the course of a legitimate business, with
respect to explosives and explosive devices acquired, possessed, carried or
used in the course of such business.
      (2)   Farmers, with respect to explosives and explosive devices acquired,
possessed, carried or used for agricultural purposes on lands farmed by them.
      (3)   Scientists, engineers, and instructors, with respect to a dangerous
ordnance acquired, possessed, carried or used in the course of bona fide
research or instruction.
      (4)   Financial institutions and armored car company guards, with respect
to automatic firearms lawfully acquired, possessed, carried or used by any such
person while acting within the scope of the person’s duties.
      (5)   In the discretion of the issuing authority, any responsible person,
with respect to a dangerous ordnance lawfully acquired, possessed, carried or
used for a legitimate research, scientific, educational, industrial or other
proper purpose.
   (B)   Application for a license or temporary permit under this section shall
be in writing under oath to the sheriff of the county or Safety Director or
Police Chief of the municipality where the applicant resides or has the
applicant’s principal place of business. The application shall be accompanied
by an application fee of $50 when the application is for a license, and an
application fee of $5 when the application is for a temporary permit. The fees
shall be paid into the General Revenue Fund of the county or municipality. The
application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, age, address, occupation and business address of the
applicant, if the applicant is a natural person, or the name, address, and
principal place of business of the applicant if the applicant is a corporation.
      (2)   A description of the dangerous ordnance for which a permit is
requested.
      (3)   A description of the places where and the manner in which the
dangerous ordnance is to be kept, carried, and used.
      (4)   A statement of the purposes for which the dangerous ordnance is to
be acquired, possessed, carried or used.
      (5)   Such other information as the issuing authority may require in
giving effect to this section.
   (C)   Upon investigation, the issuing authority shall issue a license or
temporary permit only if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The applicant is not otherwise prohibited by law from acquiring,
having, carrying or using a dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   The applicant is 21 years of age or over, if the applicant is a
natural person.
      (3)   It appears that the applicant has sufficient competence to safely
acquire, possess, carry or use the dangerous ordnance, and that proper
precautions will be taken to protect the security of the dangerous ordnance and
ensure the safety of persons and property.
      (4)   It appears that the dangerous ordnance will be lawfully acquired,
possessed, carried and used by the applicant for a legitimate purpose.
   (D)   The license or temporary permit shall identify the person to whom it
is issued, identify the dangerous ordnance involved and state the purposes for
which the license or temporary permit is issued, state the expiration date, if
any, and list such restrictions on the acquisition, possession, carriage, or
use of the dangerous ordnance as the issuing authority considers advisable to
protect the security of the dangerous ordnance and ensure the safety of persons
and property.
   (E)   A temporary permit shall be issued for the casual use of explosives
and explosive devices, and other consumable dangerous ordnance, and shall
expire within 30 days of its issuance. A license shall be issued for the
regular use of consumable dangerous ordnance, or for any non-consumable
dangerous ordnance, which license need not specify an expiration date, but the
issuing authority may specify such expiration date, not earlier than one year
from the date of issuance, as it considers advisable in view of the nature of
the dangerous ordnance and the purposes for which the license is issued.
   (F)   The dangerous ordnance specified in a license or temporary permit may
be obtained by the holder anywhere in the state. Pursuant to R.C. § 2923.18(F),
the holder of a license may use such dangerous ordnance anywhere in the state.
The holder of a temporary permit may use such dangerous ordnance only within
the territorial jurisdiction of the issuing authority.
   (G)   The issuing authority shall forward to the State Fire Marshal a copy
of each license or temporary permit issued pursuant to this section, and a copy
of each record of a transaction in a dangerous ordnance and of each report of a
lost or stolen dangerous ordnance, given to the local law enforcement authority
as required by R.C. § 2923.20(A)(6) and (A)(7) or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. The State Fire Marshal will keep a permanent file of all
licenses and temporary permits issued pursuant to this section, and of all
records of transactions in, and losses or thefts of a dangerous ordnance
forwarded by local law enforcement authorities pursuant to this section.
(R.C. § 2923.18)
§ 137.11 POSSESSION OF AN OBJECT INDISTINGUISHABLE FROM A FIREARM IN A SCHOOL
SAFETY ZONE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly possess an object in a school safety zone if
both of the following apply:
      (1)   The object is indistinguishable from a firearm, whether or not the
object is capable of being fired.
      (2)   The person indicates that the person possesses the object and that
it is a firearm, or the person knowingly displays or brandishes the object and
indicates that it is a firearm.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States who is authorized to carry deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance
and is acting within the scope of the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties;
         (b)   A law enforcement officer who is authorized to carry deadly
weapons or dangerous ordnance;
         (c)   A security officer employed by a board of education or governing
body of a school during the time that the security officer is on duty pursuant
to that contract of employment;
         (d)   1.   Any person not described in divisions (B)(1)(a) to (B)(1)
(c) of this section who has written authorization from the board of education
or governing body of a school to convey deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance
into a school safety zone or to possess a deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance
in a school safety zone and who conveys or possesses the deadly weapon or
dangerous ordnance in accordance with that authorization, provided both of the
following apply:
               a.   Either the person has successfully completed the
curriculum, instruction, and training established under R.C. § 5502.703, or the
person has received a certificate of having satisfactorily completed an
approved basic peace officer training program or is a law enforcement officer;
               b.   The board or governing body has notified the public, by
whatever means the affected school regularly communicates with the public, that
the board or governing body has authorized one or more persons to go armed
within a school operated by the board or governing authority.
            2.   A district board or school governing body that authorizes a
person under division (B)(1)(d) of this section shall require that person to
submit to an annual criminal records check conducted in the same manner as R.C.
§ 3319.39 or R.C. § 3319.391.
         (e)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance, and who is subject to and in
compliance with the requirements of R.C. § 109.801, unless the appointing
authority of the person has expressly specified that the exemption provided in
division (B)(1)(e) of this section does not apply to the person.
      (2)   This section does not apply to premises upon which home schooling
is conducted. This section also does not apply to a school administrator,
teacher or employee who possesses an object that is indistinguishable from a
firearm for legitimate school purposes during the course of employment, a
student who uses an object that is indistinguishable from a firearm under the
direction of a school administrator, teacher or employee, or any other person
who, with the express prior approval of a school administrator, possesses an
object that is indistinguishable from a firearm for a legitimate purpose,
including the use of the object in a ceremonial activity, a play, re-enactment
or other dramatic presentation, school safety training, or a ROTC activity or
another similar use of the object.
      (3)   This section does not apply to a person who conveys or attempts to
convey a handgun into, or possesses a handgun in, a school safety zone if, at
the time of that conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession of the
handgun, all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person does not enter into a school building or onto school
premises and is not at a school activity.
         (b)   The person has been issued a concealed handgun license that is
valid at the time of the conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession or the
person is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         (c)   The person is in the school safety zone in accordance with 18
U.S.C. § 922(q)(2)(B).
         (d)   The person is not knowingly in a place described in R.C. §
2923.126(B)(1) or (B)(3) through (B)(8).
      (4)   This section does not apply to a person who conveys or attempts to
convey a handgun into, or possesses a handgun in, a school safety zone if at
the time of that conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession of the handgun
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person has been issued a concealed handgun license that is
valid at the time of the conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession or the
person is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         (b)   The person leaves the handgun in a motor vehicle.
         (c)   The handgun does not leave the motor vehicle.
         (d)   If the person exits the motor vehicle, the person locks the
motor vehicle.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal possession of an
object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety zone. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, illegal possession of an object
indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety zone is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation
of this section, illegal possession of an object indistinguishable from a
firearm in a school safety zone is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   (1)   In addition to any other penalty imposed upon a person who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this section, and subject to
division (D)(2) of this section, if the offender has not attained 19 years of
age, regardless of whether the offender is attending or is enrolled in a school
operated by a board of education or for which the Director of Education and
Workforce prescribes minimum standards under R.C. § 3301.07, the court shall
impose upon the offender a class four suspension of the offender’s probationary
driver’s license, restricted license, driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or probationary commercial driver’s
license that then is in effect from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4)
and shall deny the offender the issuance of any permit or license of that type
during the period of the suspension. If the offender is not a resident of this
state, the court shall impose a class four suspension of the nonresident
operating privilege of the offender from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(4).
      (2)   If the offender shows good cause why the court should not suspend
one of the types of licenses, permits or privileges specified in division (D)
(1) of this section or deny the issuance of one of the temporary instruction
permits specified in division (D)(1) of this section, the court in its
discretion may choose not to impose the suspension, revocation or denial
required in division (D)(1) of this section, but the court, in its discretion,
instead may require the offender to perform community service for a number of
hours determined by the court.
   (E)   As used in this section, OBJECT THAT IS INDISTINGUISHABLE FROM A
FIREARM means an object made, constructed or altered so that, to a reasonable
person without specialized training in firearms, the object appears to be a
firearm.
(R.C. § 2923.122(C) - (G))
Statutory reference:
    Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance in a
school safety zone, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122(A) and (B)
§ 137.12 POSSESSION OF DEADLY WEAPON WHILE UNDER DETENTION.
   (A)   As used in this section, DETENTION and DETENTION FACILITY have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 2921.01.
   (B)   No person under detention at a detention facility shall possess a
deadly weapon.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possession of a deadly
weapon while under detention.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) of this section,
possession of a deadly weapon while under detention is a felony to be
prosecuted under state law.
      (2)   If the offender, at the time of the commission of the offense, was
under detention as an alleged or adjudicated delinquent child or unruly child
and if at the time the offender commits the act for which the offender was
under detention it would not be a felony if committed by an adult, possession
of a deadly weapon while under detention is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2923.131)
Statutory reference:
    Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offenses, see
R.C. § 2923.131
§ 137.13 CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSES: POSSESSION OF A REVOKED OR SUSPENDED
LICENSE; ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS; POSTING OF SIGNS PROHIBITING POSSESSION.
   (A)   Possession of a revoked or suspended concealed handgun license.
      (1)   No person, except in the performance of official duties, shall
possess a concealed handgun license that was issued and that has been revoked
or suspended.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of possessing a
revoked or suspended concealed handgun license, a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 2923.1211(B), (C))
   (B)   Additional restrictions. Pursuant to R.C. § 2923.126:
      (1)   A concealed handgun license that is issued under R.C. § 2923.125
shall expire five years after the date of issuance. A licensee who has been
issued a license under that section shall be granted a grace period of 30 days
after the licensee's license expires during which the licensee's license
remains valid. Except as provided in divisions (B)(2) and (B)(3) of this
section, a licensee who has been issued a concealed handgun license under R.C.
§ 2923.125 or 2923.1213 may carry a concealed handgun anywhere in this state if
the license is valid when the licensee is in actual possession of a concealed
handgun. The licensee shall give notice of any change in the licensee's
residence address to the sheriff who issued the license within 45 days after
that change.
      (2)   A valid concealed handgun license does not authorize the licensee
to carry a concealed handgun in any manner prohibited under R.C. § 2923.12(B)
or in any manner prohibited under R.C. § 2923.16. A valid license does not
authorize the licensee to carry a concealed handgun into any of the following
places:
         (a)   A police station, sheriff’s office, or state highway patrol
station, premises controlled by the bureau of criminal identification and
investigation; a state correctional institution, jail, workhouse, or other
detention facility; any area of an airport passenger terminal that is beyond a
passenger or property screening checkpoint or to which access is restricted
through security measures by the airport authority or a public agency; or an
institution that is maintained, operated, managed, and governed pursuant to
R.C. § 5119.14(A) or R.C. § 5123.03(A)(1);
         (b)   A school safety zone if the licensee’s carrying the concealed
handgun is in violation of R.C. § 2923.122;
         (c)   A courthouse or another building or structure in which a
courtroom is located if the licensee’s carrying the concealed handgun is in
violation of R.C. § 2923.123;
         (d)   Any premises or open air arena for which a D permit has been
issued under R.C. Chapter 4303 if the licensee’s carrying the concealed handgun
is in violation of R.C. § 2923.121;
         (e)   Any premises owned or leased by any public or private college,
university, or other institution of higher education, unless the handgun is in
a locked motor vehicle or the licensee is in the immediate process of placing
the handgun in a locked motor vehicle or unless the licensee is carrying the
concealed handgun pursuant to a written policy, rule, or other authorization
that is adopted by the institution’s board of trustees or other governing body
and that authorizes specific individuals or classes of individuals to carry a
concealed handgun on the premises;
         (f)   Any church, synagogue, mosque, or other place of worship, unless
the church, synagogue, mosque, or other place of worship posts or permits
otherwise;
         (g)   Any building that is a government facility of this state or a
political subdivision of this state and that is not a building that is used
primarily as a shelter, restroom, parking facility for motor vehicles, or rest
facility and is not a courthouse or other building or structure in which a
courtroom is located that is subject to division (B)(2)(c) of this section,
unless the governing body with authority over the building has enacted a
statute, ordinance, or policy that permits a licensee to carry a concealed
handgun into the building;
         (h)   A place in which federal law prohibits the carrying of handguns.
      (3)   (a)   Nothing in this division (B) shall negate or restrict a rule,
policy, or practice of a private employer that is not a private college,
university, or other institution of higher education concerning or prohibiting
the presence of firearms on the private employer’s premises or property,
including motor vehicles owned by the private employer. Nothing in this
division (B) shall require a private employer of that nature to adopt a rule,
policy, or practice concerning or prohibiting the presence of firearms on the
private employer’s premises or property, including motor vehicles owned by the
private employer.
         (b)   1.   A private employer shall be immune from liability in a
civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that
allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto the
premises or property of the private employer, including motor vehicles owned by
the private employer, unless the private employer acted with malicious purpose.
A private employer is immune from liability in a civil action for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by or related to
the private employer’s decision to permit a licensee to bring, or prohibit a
licensee from bringing, a handgun onto the premises or property of the private
employer.
            2.   A political subdivision shall be immune from liability in a
civil action, to the extent and in the manner provided in R.C. Chapter 2744,
for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused
by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto any premises or property
owned, leased, or otherwise under the control of the political subdivision. As
used in this division, POLITICAL SUBDIVISION has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2744.01.
            3.    An institution of higher education shall be immune from
liability in a civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or
property that allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a
handgun onto the premises of the institution, including motor vehicles owned by
the institution, unless the institution acted with malicious purpose. An
institution of higher education is immune from liability in a civil action for
any injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by
or related to the institution’s decision to permit a licensee or class of
licensees to bring a handgun onto the premises of the institution.
            4.   A nonprofit corporation shall be immune from liability in a
civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that
allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto the
premises of the nonprofit corporation, including any motor vehicle owned by the
nonprofit corporation, or to any event organized by the nonprofit corporation,
unless the nonprofit corporation acted with malicious purpose. A nonprofit
corporation is immune from liability in a civil action for any injury, death,
or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by or related to the
nonprofit corporation’s decision to permit a licensee to bring a handgun onto
the premises of the nonprofit corporation or to any event organized by the
nonprofit corporation.
         (c)   1.   a.   Except as provided in division (B)(3)(c)2. of this
section and R.C. § 2923.1214, the owner or person in control of private land or
premises, and a private person or entity leasing land or premises owned by the
state, the United States, or a political subdivision of the state or the United
States, may post a sign in a conspicuous location on that land or on those
premises prohibiting persons from carrying firearms or concealed firearms on or
onto that land or those premises. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, a person who knowingly violates a posted prohibition of that nature
is guilty of criminal trespass in violation of R.C. § 2911.21(A)(4) and is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If a person knowingly violates a
posted prohibition of that nature and the posted land or premises primarily was
a parking lot or other parking facility, the person is not guilty of criminal
trespass under R.C. § 2911.21 or under any other criminal law of this state or
criminal law, ordinance, or resolution of a political subdivision of this
state, and instead is subject only to a civil cause of action for trespass
based on the violation.
               b.   If a person knowingly violates a posted prohibition of the
nature described in this division and the posted land or premises is a child
care center, type A family child care home, or type B family child care home,
unless the person is a licensee who resides in a type A family child care home
or type B family child care home, the person is guilty of aggravated trespass
in violation of R.C. § 2911.211. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the person
previously has been convicted of a violation of this division or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any offense of
violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is either loaded or for
which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the weapon involved is
dangerous ordnance, the offender is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
            2.   A landlord may not prohibit or restrict a tenant who is a
licensee and who on or after September 9, 2008 enters into a rental agreement
with the landlord for the use of residential premises, and the tenant’s guest
while the tenant is present, from lawfully carrying or possessing a handgun on
those residential premises.
            3.   As used in division (B)(3)(c) of this section:
               LANDLORD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
               RENTAL AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
               RESIDENTIAL PREMISES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01,
except the term does not include a dwelling unit that is owned or operated by a
college or university.
               TENANT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
      (4)   A person who holds a valid concealed handgun license issued by
another state that is recognized by the Attorney General pursuant to a
reciprocity agreement entered into pursuant to R.C. § 109.69 or a person who
holds a valid concealed handgun license under the circumstances described in
R.C. § 109.69(B) has the same right to carry a concealed handgun in this state
as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license under R.C. § 2923.125
and is subject to the same restrictions that apply to a person who has been
issued a license under that section that is valid at the time in question.
      (5)   (a)   A peace officer has the same right to carry a concealed
handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license
under R.C. § 2923.125, provided that the officer when carrying a concealed
handgun under authority of this division is carrying validating identification.
For purposes of reciprocity with other states, a peace officer shall be
considered to be a licensee in this state.
         (b)   An active duty member of the armed forces of the United States
who is carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of
successful completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training
requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1) has the same right to carry a
concealed handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun
license under R.C. § 2923.125 and is subject to the same restrictions as
specified in this division (B).
         (c)   A tactical medical professional who is qualified to carry
firearms while on duty under R.C. § 109.771 has the same right to carry a
concealed handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun
license under R.C. § 2923.125.
      (6)   (a)   A qualified retired peace officer who possesses a retired
peace officer identification card issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(b) of this
section and a valid firearms requalification certification issued pursuant to
division (B)(6)(c) of this section has the same right to carry a concealed
handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license
under R.C. § 2923.125 and is subject to the same restrictions that apply to a
person who has been issued a license issued under that section that is valid at
the time in question. For purposes of reciprocity with other states, a
qualified retired peace officer who possesses a retired peace officer
identification card issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(b) of this section and a
valid firearms requalification certification issued pursuant to division (B)(6)
(c) of this section shall be considered to be a licensee in this state.
         (b)   1.   Each public agency of this state or of a political
subdivision of this state that is served by one or more peace officers shall
issue a retired peace officer identification card to any person who retired
from service as a peace officer with that agency, if the issuance is in
accordance with the agency’s policies and procedures and if the person, with
respect to the person’s service with that agency, satisfies all of the
following:
               a.   The person retired in good standing from service as a peace
officer with the public agency, and the retirement was not for reasons of
mental instability.
               b.   Before retiring from service as a peace officer with that
agency, the person was authorized to engage in or supervise the prevention,
detection, investigation, or prosecution of, or the incarceration of any person
for, any violation of law and the person had statutory powers of arrest.
               c.   At the time of the person’s retirement as a peace officer
with that agency, the person was trained and qualified to carry firearms in the
performance of the peace officer’s duties.
               d.   Before retiring from service as a peace officer with that
agency, the person was regularly employed as a peace officer for an aggregate
of 15 years or more, or, in the alternative, the person retired from service as
a peace officer with that agency, after completing any applicable probationary
period of that service, due to a service-connected disability, as determined by
the agency.
            2.   A retired peace officer identification card issued to a person
under division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section shall identify the person by name,
contain a photograph of the person, identify the public agency of this state or
of the political subdivision of this state from which the person retired as a
peace officer and that is issuing the identification card, and specify that the
person retired in good standing from service as a peace officer with the
issuing public agency and satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)
(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(B)1.d. of this section. In addition to the required content
specified in this division, a retired peace officer identification card issued
to a person under division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section may include the firearms
requalification certification described in division (B)(6)(c) of this section,
and if the identification card includes that certification, the identification
card shall serve as the firearms requalification certification for the retired
peace officer. If the issuing public agency issues credentials to active law
enforcement officers who serve the agency, the agency may comply with division
(B)(6)(b)1. of this section by issuing the same credentials to persons who
retired from service as a peace officer with the agency and who satisfy the
criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section,
provided that the credentials so issued to retired peace officers are stamped
with the word “RETIRED”.
            3.   A public agency of this state or of a political subdivision of
this state may charge persons who retired from service as a peace officer with
the agency a reasonable fee for issuing to the person a retired peace officer
identification card pursuant to division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section.
         (c)   1.   If a person retired from service as a peace officer with a
public agency of this state or of a political subdivision of this state and the
person satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)
(b)1.d. of this section, the public agency may provide the retired peace
officer with the opportunity to attend a firearms requalification program that
is approved for purposes of firearms requalification required under R.C. §
109.801. The retired peace officer may be required to pay the cost of the
course.
            2.   If a retired peace officer who satisfies the criteria set
forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section attends a
firearms requalification program that is approved for purposes of firearms
requalification required under R.C. § 109.801, the retired peace officer’s
successful completion of the firearms requalification program requalifies the
retired peace officer for purposes of division (B)(6) of this section for five
years from the date on which the program was successfully completed, and the
requalification is valid during that five-year period. If a retired peace
officer who satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)
(6)(b)1.d. of this section satisfactorily completes such a firearms
requalification program, the retired peace officer shall be issued a firearms
requalification certification that identifies the retired peace officer by
name, identifies the entity that taught the program, specifies that the retired
peace officer successfully completed the program, specifies the date on which
the course was successfully completed, and specifies that the requalification
is valid for five years from that date of successful completion. The firearms
requalification certification for a retired peace officer may be included in
the retired peace officer identification card issued to the retired peace
officer under division (B)(6)(b) of this section.
            3.   A retired peace officer who attends a firearms requalification
program that is approved for purposes of firearms requalification required
under R.C. § 109.801 may be required to pay the cost of the program.
      (7)   As used in division (B) of this section:
         GOVERNING BODY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 154.01.
         GOVERNMENT FACILITY OF THIS STATE OR A POLITICAL SUBDIVISION OF THIS
STATE. Means any of the following:
            1.   A building or part of a building that is owned or leased by
the government of this state or a political subdivision of this state and where
employees of the government of this state or the political subdivision
regularly are present for the purpose of performing their official duties as
employees of the state or political subdivision;
            2.   The office of a deputy registrar serving pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 4503 that is used to perform deputy registrar functions.
         NONPROFIT CORPORATION. Means any private organization that is exempt
from federal income taxation pursuant to subsection 501(a) and described in
subsection 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code.
         QUALIFIED RETIRED PEACE OFFICER. Means a person who satisfies all of
the following:
            1.   The person satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)
(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section.
            2.   The person is not under the influence of alcohol or another
intoxicating or hallucinatory drug or substance.
            3.   The person is not prohibited by federal law from receiving
firearms.
         RETIRED PEACE OFFICER IDENTIFICATION CARD. Means an identification
card that is issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(b) of this section to a person
who is a retired peace officer.
         TACTICAL MEDICAL PROFESSIONAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
109.71.
         VALIDATING IDENTIFICATION. Means photographic identification issued by
the agency for which an individual serves as a peace officer that identifies
the individual as a peace officer of the agency.
(R.C. § 2923.126)
   (C)   Posting of signs prohibiting possession. Each person, board, or entity
that owns or controls any place or premises identified in R.C. § 2923.126(B) as
a place into which a valid license does not authorize the licensee to carry a
concealed handgun, or a designee of such a person, board, or entity, shall post
in the following one or more conspicuous locations in the premises a sign that
contains a statement in substantially the following form: “Unless otherwise
authorized by law, pursuant to the Ohio Revised Code, no person shall knowingly
possess, have under the person’s control, convey, or attempt to convey a deadly
weapon or dangerous ordnance onto these premises.”
(R.C. § 2923.1212)
§ 137.14 DEFACED FIREARMS.
   (A)   No person shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Change, alter, remove, or obliterate the name of the manufacturer,
model, manufacturer’s serial number, or other mark of identification on a
firearm.
      (2)   Possess a firearm knowing or having reasonable cause to believe
that the name of the manufacturer, model, manufacturer’s serial number, or
other mark of identification on the firearm has been changed, altered, removed,
or obliterated.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of
defacing identification marks of a firearm. Except as otherwise provided in
this division, defacing identification marks of a firearm is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A)(1) of this section, defacing
identification marks of a firearm is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of
possessing a defaced firearm. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
possessing a defaced firearm is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
division (A)(2) of this section, possessing a defaced firearm is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any firearm on which no
manufacturer’s serial number was inscribed at the time of its manufacture.
(R.C. § 2923.201)
CHAPTER 138: DRUG OFFENSES
Section
   
138.01   Definitions
   
138.02   Trafficking in controlled substances; gift of marihuana
   
138.03   Drug possession offenses
   
138.04   Possessing drug abuse instruments
   
138.05   Permitting drug abuse
   
138.06   Illegal cultivation of marihuana
   
138.07   Abusing harmful intoxicants
   
138.08   Illegal dispensing of drug samples
   
138.09   Federal prosecution bar to municipal prosecution
   
138.10   Nitrous oxide: improper dispensing or distribution; possession in a
motor vehicle
   
138.11   Laboratory report required
   
138.12   Counterfeit controlled substances
   
138.13   Use, possession, or sale of drug paraphernalia
   
138.14   Controlled substance or prescription labels
   
138.15   Possession, sale and disposal of hypodermics
   
138.16   Controlled substance schedules
   
138.17   Unlawful furnishing of prescription to enable persons to be issued
handicapped parking placards or license plates
   
138.18   Sale of pseudoephedrine
   
138.19   Sale of pure caffeine product
   
138.20   Sale of dextromethorphan
   
138.21   Adult use cannabis control; limitations on conduct by individuals
Statutory reference:
   Administration of epinephrine, exemption from prosecution, see R.C. §
2925.64
   Controlled substances, regulation of pharmacists and other professionals,
see R.C. Chapters 3719 and 4729
   Conviction of professionally licensed persons to be reported to licensing
board, see R.C. § 2925.38
   Criminal and civil forfeiture of property for felony drug abuse offenses,
see R.C. Chapter 2981
   Destruction of chemicals used to produce methamphetamine; preservation of
samples, see R.C. § 2925.52
   Tampering with drugs, felony offense, see R.C. § 2925.24
§ 138.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words,
terms and phrases and their derivatives used in this chapter which are not
defined in this section shall have the meanings given to them in the Ohio
Revised Code.
   ADMINISTER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   ADULTERATE. To cause a drug to be adulterated as described in R.C. §
3715.63.
   ALCOHOL AND DRUG ADDICTION SERVICES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5119.01.
   BULK AMOUNT. Of a controlled substance means any of the following:
      (1)   For any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance included in
Schedule I, Schedule II, or Schedule III, with the exception of any controlled
substance analog, marihuana, cocaine, L.S.D., heroin, any fentanyl-related
compound, and hashish and except as provided in division (2), (5), or (6) of
this definition, whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   An amount equal to or exceeding ten grams or 25 unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule I opiate or opium derivative;
         (b)   An amount equal to or exceeding ten grams of a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of raw or gum
opium;
         (c)   An amount equal to or exceeding 30 grams or ten unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule I hallucinogen other than tetrahydrocannabinol or lysergic acid
amide, or a Schedule I stimulant or depressant;
         (d)   An amount equal to or exceeding 20 grams or five times the
maximum daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard
pharmaceutical reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule II opiate or opium
derivative;
         (e)   An amount equal to or exceeding five grams or ten unit doses of
a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount
of phencyclidine;
         (f)   An amount equal to or exceeding 120 grams or 30 times the
maximum daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard
pharmaceutical reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule II stimulant that is in
a final dosage form manufactured by a person authorized by the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended) and the federal
drug abuse control laws, as defined in this section, that is or contains any
amount of a Schedule II depressant substance or a Schedule II hallucinogenic
substance;
         (g)   An amount equal to or exceeding three grams of a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule
II stimulant, or any of its salts or isomers, that is not in a final dosage
form manufactured by a person authorized by the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended) and the federal drug abuse
control laws;
      (2)   An amount equal to or exceeding 120 grams or 30 times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III or IV substance other than an anabolic
steroid or a Schedule III opiate or opium derivative;
      (3)   An amount equal to or exceeding 20 grams or five times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III opiate or opium derivative;
      (4)   An amount equal to or exceeding 250 milliliters or 250 grams of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule V substance;
      (5)   An amount equal to or exceeding 200 solid dosage units, 16 grams,
or 16 milliliters of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III anabolic steroid;
      (6)   For any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is a
combination of a fentanyl-related compound and any other compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V,
if the defendant is charged with a violation of R.C. § 2925.11 and the
sentencing provisions set forth in R.C. § 2925.11(C)(10)(b) and (C)(11) will
not apply regarding the defendant and the violation, the bulk amount of the
controlled substance for purposes of the violation is the amount specified in
division (1), (2), (3), (4), or (5) of this definition for the other Schedule
III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V controlled substance that is combined with the
fentanyl-related compound.
   CERTIFIED GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE. A duly constituted and organized committee of
the Ohio State Bar Association or of one or more local bar associations of the
state that complies with the criteria set forth in Rule V, Section 6 of the
Rules for the Government of the Bar of Ohio.
   COCAINE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A cocaine salt, isomer, or derivative, a salt of a cocaine isomer
or derivative, or the base form of cocaine.
      (2)   Coca leaves or a salt, compound, derivative, or preparation of coca
leaves, including ecgonine, a salt, isomer, or derivative of ecgonine, or a
salt of an isomer or derivative of ecgonine.
      (3)   A salt, compound, derivative, or preparation of a substance
identified in division (1) or (2) of this definition that is chemically
equivalent to or identical with any of those substances, except that the
substances shall not include decocainized coca leaves or extraction of coca
leaves if the extractions do not contain cocaine or ecgonine.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A JUVENILE. An offense is “committed in the
vicinity of a juvenile” if the offender commits the offense within 100 feet of
a juvenile or within the view of a juvenile, regardless of whether the offender
knows the age of the juvenile, whether the offender knows the offense is being
committed within 100 feet of or within view of the juvenile, or whether the
juvenile actually views the commission of the offense.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SCHOOL. An offense is “committed in the
vicinity of a school” if the offender commits the offense on school premises,
in a school building, or within 1,000 feet of the boundaries of any school
premises, regardless of whether the offender knows the offense is being
committed on school premises, in a school building, or within 1,000 feet of the
boundaries of any school premises.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SUBSTANCE ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER OR A
RECOVERING ADDICT. An offense is “committed in the vicinity of a substance
addiction services provider or a recovering addict” if either of the following
apply:
      (1)   The offender commits the offense on the premises of a substance
addiction services provider’s facility, including a facility licensed prior to
June 29, 2019, under R.C. § 5119.391 to provide methadone treatment or an
opioid treatment program licensed on or after that date under R.C. § 5119.37,
or within 500 feet of the premises of a substance addiction services provider’s
facility and the offender knows or should know that the offense is being
committed within the vicinity of the substance addiction services provider’s
facility.
      (2)   The offender sells, offers to sell, delivers, or distributes the
controlled substance or controlled substance analog to a person who is
receiving treatment at the time of the commission of the offense, or received
treatment within 30 days prior to the commission of the offense, from a
substance addiction services provider and the offender knows that the person is
receiving or received that treatment.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE ANALOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   COUNTERFEIT CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any drug that bears, or whose container or label bears, a
trademark, trade name, or other identifying mark used without authorization of
the owner of rights to the trademark, trade name, or identifying mark.
      (2)   Any unmarked or unlabeled substance that is represented to be a
controlled substance manufactured, processed, packed, or distributed by a
person other than the person that manufactured, processed, packed, or
distributed it.
      (3)   Any substance that is represented to be a controlled substance but
is not a controlled substance or is a different controlled substance.
      (4)   Any substance other than a controlled substance that a reasonable
person would believe to be a controlled substance because of its similarity in
shape, size, and color, or its markings, labeling, packaging, distribution, or
the price for which it is sold or offered for sale.
   CULTIVATE. Includes planting, watering, fertilizing or tilling.
   DANGEROUS DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DECEPTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   DISCIPLINARY COUNSEL. The disciplinary counsel appointed by the Board of
Commissioners on Grievances and Discipline of the Ohio Supreme Court under the
Rules for the Government of the Bar of Ohio.
   DISPENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   DISTRIBUTE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2913.02(A) that constitutes theft of drugs,
or any violation of R.C. § 2925.02, 2925.03, 2925.04, 2925.041, 2925.05,
2925.06, 2925.11, 2925.12, 2925.13, 2925.22, 2925.23, 2925.24, 2925.31,
2925.32, 2925.36, or 2925.37.
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former law of a municipality, state
or any other state or of the United States, that is substantially equivalent to
any section listed in division (1) of this definition.
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former law of a municipality, state
or any other state, or of the United States, of which planting, cultivating,
harvesting, processing, making, manufacturing, producing, shipping,
transporting, delivering, acquiring, possessing, storing, distributing,
dispensing, selling, inducing another to use, administering to another, using,
or otherwise dealing with a controlled substance is an element.
      (4)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing or attempting to commit, any offense under division (1), (2), or (3)
of this definition.
   DRUG OF ABUSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
   FELONY DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Any drug abuse offense that would constitute a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state, or the United States.
   FENTANYL-RELATED COMPOUND. Any of the following:
      (1)   Fentanyl;
      (2)   Alpha-methylfentanyl (N-[1-(alpha-methyl-beta-phenyl)ethyl-4-
piperidyl] propionanilide; 1-(1-methyl-2-phenylethyl)-4-(N-propanilido)
piperidine);
      (3)   Alpha-methylthiofentanyl (N-[1-methyl-2-(2-thienyl)ethyl-4-
piperidinyl]-N- phenylpropanamide);
      (4)   Beta-hydroxyfentanyl (N-[1-(2-hydroxy-2-phenethyl-4-piperidinyl]-N-
phenylpropanamide);
      (5)   Beta-hydroxy-3-methylfentanyl (other name: N-[1-(2-hydroxy-2-
phenethyl)-3- methyl-4-piperidinyl]-N-phenylpropanamide);
      (6)   3-methylfentanyl (N-[3-methyl-1-(2-phenylethyl)-4-piperidyl]-N-
phenylpropanamide);
      (7)   3-methylthiofentanyl (N-[3-methyl-1-[2-(thienyl)ethyl]-4-
piperidinyl]-– phenylpropanamide);
      (8)   Para-fluorofentanyl (N-(4-fluorophenyl)-N-[1-(2-phenethyl)-4-
piperidinyl]propanamide;
      (9)   Thiofentanyl (N-phenyl-N-[1-(2-thienyl)ethyl-4-piperidinyl]-
propanamide;
      (10)   Alfentanil;
      (11)   Carfentanil;
      (12)   Remifentanil;
      (13)   Sufentanil;
      (14)   Acetyl-alpha-methylfentanyl (N-[1-(1-methyl-2-phenethyl)-4-
piperidinyl]-N- phenylacetamide); and
      (15)   Any compound that meets all of the following fentanyl
pharmacophore requirements to bind at the mu receptor, as identified by a
report from an established forensic laboratory, including acetylfentanyl,
furanylfentanyl, valerylfentanyl, butyrylfentanyl, isobutyrylfentanyl, 4-
methoxybutyrylfentanyl, para-fluorobutyrylfentanyl, acrylfentanyl, and ortho-
fluorofentanyl:
         (a)   A chemical scaffold consisting of both of the following:
            1.   A five, six, or seven member ring structure containing a
nitrogen, whether or not further substituted;
            2.   An attached nitrogen to the ring, whether or not that nitrogen
is enclosed in a ring structure, including an attached aromatic ring or other
lipophilic group to that nitrogen.
         (b)   A polar functional group attached to the chemical scaffold,
including but not limited to a hydroxyl, ketone, amide, or ester;
         (c)   An alkyl or aryl substitution off the ring nitrogen of the
chemical scaffold; and
         (d)   The compound has not been approved for medical use by the United
States food and drug administration.
   HARMFUL INTOXICANT. Does not include beer or intoxicating liquor, but means
any of the following:
      (1)   Any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance the gas, fumes, or
vapor of which when inhaled can induce intoxication, excitement, giddiness,
irrational behavior, depression, stupefaction, paralysis, unconsciousness,
asphyxiation, or other harmful physiological effects, and includes but is not
limited to any of the following:
         (a)   Any volatile organic solvent, plastic cement, model cement,
fingernail polish remover, lacquer thinner, cleaning fluid, gasoline, or other
preparation containing a volatile organic solvent.
         (b)   Any aerosol propellant.
         (c)   Any fluorocarbon refrigerant.
         (d)   Any anesthetic gas.
      (2)   Gamma Butyrolactone;
      (3)   1,4 Butanediol.
   HASHISH.
      (1)   A resin or a preparation of a resin to which both of the following
apply:
         (a)   It is contained in or derived from any part of the plant of the
genus cannabis, whether in solid form or in a liquid concentrate, liquid
extract, or liquid distillate form.
         (b)   It has a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of more than
0.3%.
      (2)   The term does not include a hemp byproduct in the possession of a
licensed hemp processor under R.C. Chapter 928, provided that the hemp
byproduct is being produced, stored, and disposed of in accordance with rules
adopted under R.C. § 928.03.
   HYPODERMIC. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   JUVENILE. A person under 18 years of age.
   LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS. Has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   L.S.D. Lysergic acid diethylamide.
   MAJOR DRUG OFFENDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   MANDATORY PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   MANUFACTURE. To plant, cultivate, harvest, process, make, prepare, or
otherwise engage in any part of the production of a drug, by propagation,
extraction, chemical synthesis, or compounding, or any combination of the same,
and includes packaging, repackaging, labeling, and other activities incident to
production.
   MANUFACTURER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   MARIHUANA. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01, except that it does
not include hashish.
   METHAMPHETAMINE. Methamphetamine, any salt, isomer, or salt of an isomer of
methamphetamine, or any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance containing
methamphetamine or any salt, isomer, or salt of an isomer of methamphetamine.
   MINOR DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSE. Either of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2925.11 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996,
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   A violation of R.C. § 2925.11 as it exists on and after July 1,
1996, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that is a misdemeanor
or a felony of the fifth degree.
   OFFICIAL WRITTEN ORDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PERSON WITH A DRUG DEPENDENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
   PHARMACIST. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PHARMACY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   POSSESS or POSSESSION. Having control over a thing or substance but may not
be inferred solely from mere access to the thing or substance through ownership
or occupation of the premises upon which the thing or substance is found.
   PREMISES OF A SUBSTANCE ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER'S FACILITY. Means the
parcel of real property on which any substance addiction service provider’s
facility is situated.
   PRESCRIPTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   PRESUMPTION FOR A PRISON TERM or PRESUMPTION THAT A PRISON TERM SHALL BE
IMPOSED. A presumption as described in R.C. § 2929.13(D) that a prison term is
a necessary sanction for a felony in order to comply with the purposes and
principles of sentencing under R.C. § 2929.11.
   PROFESSIONAL LICENSE. Any license, permit, certificate, registration,
qualification, admission, temporary license, temporary permit, temporary
certificate, or temporary registration that is described in R.C. § 2925.01(W)
(1) through (W)(37) and that qualifies a person as a professionally licensed
person.
   PROFESSIONALLY LICENSED PERSON. Any of the following:
      (1)   A person who has received a certificate or temporary certificate as
a certified public accountant or who has registered as a public accountant
under R.C. Chapter 4701 and who holds an Ohio permit issued under that chapter;
      (2)   A person who holds a certificate of qualification to practice
architecture issued or renewed and registered under R.C. Chapter 4703;
      (3)   A person who is registered as a landscape architect under R.C.
Chapter 4703 or who holds a permit as a landscape architect issued under that
chapter;
      (4)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4707;
      (5)   A person who has been issued a certificate of registration as a
registered barber under R.C. Chapter 4709;
      (6)   A person licensed and regulated to engage in the business of a debt
pooling company by a legislative authority, under authority of R.C. Chapter
4710;
      (7)   A person who has been issued a cosmetologist’s license, hair
designer’s license, manicurist’s license, esthetician’s license, natural hair
stylist’s license, advanced cosmetologist’s license, advanced hair designer’s
license, advanced manicurist’s license, advanced esthetician’s license,
advanced natural hair stylist’s license, cosmetology instructor’s license, hair
design instructor’s license, manicurist instructor’s license, esthetics
instructor’s license, natural hair style instructor’s license, independent
contractor’s license, or tanning facility permit under R.C. Chapter 4713;
      (8)   A person who has been issued a license to practice dentistry, a
general anesthesia permit, a conscious sedation permit, a limited resident’s
license, a limited teaching license, a dental hygienist’s license, or a dental
hygienist’s teacher’s certificate under R.C. Chapter 4715;
      (9)   A person who has been issued an embalmer’s license, a funeral
director’s license, a funeral home license, or a crematory license, or who has
been registered for an embalmer’s or funeral director’s apprenticeship under
R.C. Chapter 4717;
      (10)   A person who has been licensed as a registered nurse or practical
nurse, or who has been issued a certificate for the practice of nurse-midwifery
under R.C. Chapter 4723;
      (11)   A person who has been licensed to practice optometry or to engage
in optical dispensing under R.C. Chapter 4725;
      (12)   A person licensed to act as a pawnbroker under R.C. Chapter 4727;
      (13)   A person licensed to act as a precious metals dealer under R.C.
Chapter 4728;
      (14)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 as a pharmacist or
pharmacy intern or registered under that chapter as a registered pharmacy
technician, certified pharmacy technician, or pharmacy technician trainee;
      (15)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 as a manufacturer of
dangerous drugs, outsourcing facility, third-party logistics provider,
repackager of dangerous drugs, wholesale distributor of dangerous drugs, or
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs;
      (16)   A person who is authorized to practice as a physician assistant
under R.C. Chapter 4730;
      (17)   A person who has been issued a license to practice medicine and
surgery, osteopathic medicine and surgery, or podiatric medicine and surgery
under R.C. Chapter 4731 or has been issued a certificate to practice a limited
branch of medicine under that chapter;
      (18)   A person licensed as a psychologist, independent school
psychologist, or school psychologist under R.C. Chapter 4732;
      (19)   A person registered to practice the profession of engineering or
surveying under R.C. Chapter 4733;
      (20)   A person who has been issued a license to practice chiropractic
under R.C. Chapter 4734;
      (21)   A person licensed to act as a real estate broker or real estate
salesperson under R.C. Chapter 4735;
      (22)   A person registered as a registered environmental health
specialist under R.C. Chapter 3776;
      (23)   A person licensed to operate or maintain a junkyard under R.C.
Chapter 4737;
      (24)   A person who has been issued a motor vehicle salvage dealer’s
license under R.C. Chapter 4738;
      (25)   A person who has been licensed to act as a steam engineer under
R.C. Chapter 4739;
      (26)   A person who has been issued a license or temporary permit to
practice veterinary medicine or any of its branches, or who is registered as a
graduate animal technician under R.C. Chapter 4741;
      (27)   A person who has been issued a hearing aid dealer’s or fitter’s
license or trainee permit under R.C. Chapter 4747;
      (28)   A person who has been issued a class A, class B, or class C
license or who has been registered as an investigator or security guard
employee under R.C. Chapter 4749;
      (29)   A person licensed to practice as a nursing home administrator
under R.C. Chapter 4751;
      (30)   A person licensed to practice as a speech-language pathologist or
audiologist under R.C. Chapter 4753;
      (31)   A person issued a license as an occupational therapist or physical
therapist under R.C. Chapter 4755;
      (32)   A person who is licensed as a licensed professional clinical
counselor, licensed professional counselor, social worker, independent social
worker, independent marriage and family therapist, or marriage and family
therapist, or registered as a social work assistant under R.C. Chapter 4757;
      (33)   A person issued a license to practice dietetics under R.C. Chapter
4759;
      (34)   A person who has been issued a license or limited permit to
practice respiratory therapy under R.C. Chapter 4761;
      (35)   A person who has been issued a real estate appraiser certificate
under R.C. Chapter 4763;
      (36)   A person who has been issued a home inspector license under R.C.
Chapter 4764;
      (37)   A person who has been admitted to the bar by order of the Ohio
Supreme Court in compliance with its prescribed and published rules.
   PUBLIC PREMISES. Any hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall, or other
place of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort.
   SALE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   SAMPLE DRUG. A drug or pharmaceutical preparation that would be hazardous to
health or safety if used without the supervision of a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs, or a drug of abuse, and that, at
one time, had been placed in a container plainly marked as a sample by a
manufacturer.
SCHEDULE I, SCHEDULE II, SCHEDULE III, SCHEDULE IV or SCHEDULE V. Have the same
meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   SCHOOL. Any school operated by a board of education, any community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314, or any nonpublic school for which the
Director of Education and Workforce prescribes minimum standards under R.C. §
3301.07, whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or
training provided by the school is being conducted at the time a criminal
offense is committed.
   SCHOOL BUILDING. Any building in which any of the instruction,
extracurricular activities, or training provided by a school is conducted,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training
provided by the school is being conducted in the school building at the time a
criminal offense is committed.
   SCHOOL PREMISES. Either of the following:
      (1)   The parcel of real property on which any school is situated,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training
provided by the school is being conducted on the premises at the time a
criminal offense is committed.
      (2)   Any other parcel of real property that is owned or leased by a
board of education of a school, the governing authority of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314, or the governing body of a nonpublic
school for which the Director of Education and Workforce prescribes minimum
standards under R.C. § 3301.07 and on which some of the instruction,
extracurricular activities, or training of the school is conducted, whether or
not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training provided by the
school is being conducted on the parcel of real property at the time a criminal
offense is committed.
   STANDARD PHARMACEUTICAL REFERENCE MANUAL. The current edition, with
cumulative changes if any, of references that are approved by the State Board
of Pharmacy.
   SUBSTANCE ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Means an agency, association,
corporation or other legal entity, individual, or program that provides one or
more of the following at a facility:
      (1)   Either alcohol addiction services, or drug addiction services, or
both such services that are certified by the Ohio Director of Mental Health and
Addiction Services under R.C. § 5119.36;
      (2)   Recovery supports that are related to either alcohol addiction
services, or drug addiction services, or both such services and paid for with
federal, state, or local funds administered by the Ohio Department of Mental
Health and Addiction Services or a board of alcohol, drug addiction, and mental
health services.
   UNIT DOSE. An amount or unit or a compound, mixture, or preparation
containing a controlled substance that is separately identifiable and in a form
that indicates that it is the amount or unit by which the controlled substance
is separately administered to or taken by an individual.
   WHOLESALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
(R.C.§ 2925.01)
§ 138.02 TRAFFICKING IN CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES; GIFT OF MARIHUANA.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Sell or offer to sell a controlled substance or a controlled
substance analog;
      (2)   Prepare for shipment, ship, transport, deliver, prepare for
distribution, or distribute a controlled substance or a controlled substance
analog, when the offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
controlled substance or a controlled substance analog is intended for sale or
resale by the offender or another person.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Manufacturers, licensed health professionals authorized to
prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, and other persons whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731,
and 4741.
      (2)   If the offense involves an anabolic steroid, any person who is
conducting or participating in a research project involving the use of an
anabolic steroid if the project has been approved by the United States Food and
Drug Administration.
      (3)   Any person who sells, offers for sale, prescribes, dispenses, or
administers for livestock or other nonhuman species an anabolic steroid that is
expressly intended for administration through implants to livestock or other
nonhuman species and approved for that purpose under the “Federal Food, Drug
and Cosmetic Act” (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended), and is sold, offered
for sale, prescribed, dispensed, or administered for that purpose in accordance
with that Act.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of the
following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (C)(2) and (C)(3) of this
section, trafficking in controlled substances is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the offense
involves a gift of 20 grams or less of marihuana, trafficking in marihuana is a
minor misdemeanor upon a first offense and a misdemeanor of the third degree
upon a subsequent offense. If the offense involves a gift of 20 grams or less
of marihuana and if the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school or in
the vicinity of a juvenile, trafficking in marihuana is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl-related compound
and marihuana, one of the following applies:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of trafficking in marihuana and shall be
punished under division (C)(2) of this section. The offender is not guilty of
trafficking in a fentanyl-related compound and shall not be charged with,
convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.03(C)(9) for trafficking in a
fentanyl-related compound.
         (b)   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of trafficking in a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.03(C)(9).
   (D)   As used in this section, “drug” includes any substance that is
represented to be a drug.
(R.C. § 2925.03(A) - (C), (I))
Statutory reference:
    Felony drug trafficking offenses, see R.C. § 2925.03(C)
§ 138.03 DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly obtain, possess, or use a controlled
substance or a controlled substance analog.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   Manufacturers, licensed health professionals authorized to
prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, and other persons whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731,
and 4741.
         (b)   If the offense involves an anabolic steroid, any person who is
conducting or participating in a research project involving the use of an
anabolic steroid if the project has been approved by the United States Food and
Drug Administration.
         (c)   Any person who sells, offers for sale, prescribes, dispenses, or
administers for livestock or other nonhuman species an anabolic steroid that is
expressly intended for administration through implants to livestock or other
nonhuman species and approved for that purpose under the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act, and is sold, offered for sale, prescribed, dispensed, or
administered for that purpose in accordance with that Act.
         (d)   Any person who obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs if the prescription was issued for a legitimate medical purpose and not
altered, forged, or obtained through deception or commission of a theft
offense. As used in this division (B)(1)(d), “deception” and “theft offense”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (2)   (a)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section:
            COMMUNITY ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 5119.01.
            COMMUNITY CONTROL SANCTION. Has the same meanings as in R.C. §
2929.01
            HEALTH CARE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2919.16.
            MINOR DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSE. A violation of this section or R.C.
§ 2925.11 that is a misdemeanor or a felony of the fifth degree.
            PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
            POST-RELEASE CONTROL SANCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2967.28.
            PUBLIC AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2930.01.
            QUALIFIED INDIVIDUAL. A person who is acting in good faith who
seeks or obtains medical assistance for another person who is experiencing a
drug overdose, a person who experiences a drug overdose and who seeks medical
assistance for that overdose, or a person who is the subject of another person
seeking or obtaining medical assistance for that overdose as described in
division (B)(2)(b) of this section.
            SEEK OR OBTAIN MEDICAL ASSISTANCE. Includes, but is not limited to
making a 9-1-1 call, contacting in person or by telephone call an on-duty peace
officer, or transporting or presenting a person to a health care facility.
         (b)   Subject to division (B)(2)(e) of this section, a qualified
individual shall not be arrested, charged, prosecuted, convicted, or penalized
pursuant to this chapter for a minor drug possession offense or a violation of
R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1), or R.C. § 2925.141 if all of the
following apply:
            1.   The evidence of the obtaining, possession, or use of the
controlled substance or controlled substance analog, drug abuse instruments, or
drug paraphernalia that would be the basis of the offense was obtained as a
result of the qualified individual seeking the medical assistance or
experiencing an overdose and needing medical assistance.
            2.   Subject to division (B)(2)(f) of this section, within 30 days
after seeking or obtaining the medical assistance, the qualified individual
seeks and obtains a screening and receives a referral for treatment from a
community addiction services provider or a properly credentialed addiction
treatment professional.
            3.   Subject to division (B)(2)(f) of this section, the qualified
individual who obtains a screening and receives a referral for treatment under
division (B)(2)(b)2. of this section, upon the request of any prosecuting
attorney, submits documentation to the prosecuting attorney that verifies that
the qualified individual satisfied the requirements of that division. The
documentation shall be limited to the date and time of the screening obtained
and referral received.
         (c)   If a person who is serving a community control sanction or is
under a sanction on post-release control acts pursuant to division (B)(2)(b) of
this section, then R.C. § 2929.141(B), R.C. § 2929.15(B)(2), R.C. § 2929.25(D)
(3), or R.C. § 2967.28(F)(3) applies to the person with respect to any
violation of the sanction or post-release control sanction based on a minor
drug possession offense, as defined in R.C. § 2925.11, or a violation of R.C. §
2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1), or R.C. § 2925.141.
         (d)   Nothing in division (B)(2)(b) of this section shall be construed
to do any of the following:
            1.   Limit the admissibility of any evidence in connection with the
investigation or prosecution of a crime with regards to a defendant who does
not qualify for the protections of division (B)(2)(b) of this section or with
regards to any crime other than a minor drug possession offense or a violation
of R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1), or R.C. § 2925.141 committed by a
person who qualifies for protection pursuant to division (B)(2)(b) of this
section;
            2.   Limit any seizure of evidence or contraband otherwise
permitted by law;
            3.   Limit or abridge the authority of a peace officer to detain or
take into custody a person in the course of an investigation or to effectuate
an arrest for any offense except as provided in that division;
            4.   Limit, modify, or remove any immunity from liability available
pursuant to law in effect prior to September 13, 2016 to any public agency or
to an employee of any public agency.
         (e)   Division (B)(2)(b) of this section does not apply to any person
who twice previously has been granted an immunity under division (B)(2)(b) of
this section. No person shall be granted an immunity under division (B)(2)(b)
of this section more than two times.
         (f)   Nothing in this section shall compel any qualified individual to
disclose protected health information in a way that conflicts with the
requirements of the “Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of
1996”, 104 Pub. L. No. 191, 110 Stat. 2021, 42 U.S.C. §§ 1320d et seq., as
amended, and regulations promulgated by the United States Department of Health
and Human Services to implement the act or the requirements of 42 C.F.R. Part
2.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of one of the
following:
      (1)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule I or Schedule II, with the
exception of marihuana or hashish, whoever violates division (A) of this
section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V,
whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of drugs.
The penalty for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2)(b) of this
section, possession of drugs is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the
offender previously has been convicted of a drug abuse offense, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds the bulk
amount, possession of drugs is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the violation is marihuana or a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance containing marihuana other than hashish,
whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of
marihuana. The penalty for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) or (C)(3)(c)
of this section, possession of marihuana is a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 100 grams
but is less than 200 grams, possession of marihuana is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
         (c)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 200 grams,
possession of marihuana is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (4)   If the drug involved in the violation is hashish or a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance containing hashish, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of hashish. The penalty
for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(4)(b) or (C)(4)(c)
of this section, possession of hashish is a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds five grams
but is less than ten grams of hashish in a solid form or equals or exceeds one
gram but is less than two grams of hashish in a liquid concentrate, liquid
extract, or liquid distillate form, possession of hashish is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
         (c)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds ten grams
of hashish in a solid form or equals or exceeds two grams of hashish in a
liquid concentrate, liquid extract, or liquid distillate form, possession of
hashish is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl-related compound
and marihuana, one of the following applies:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(5)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of possession of marihuana and shall be
punished as provided in division (C)(3) of this section. Except as otherwise
provided in division (C)(5)(b) of this section, the offender is not guilty of
possession of a fentanyl-related compound under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) and shall
not be charged with, convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) for
possession of a fentanyl-related compound.
         (b)   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of possession of a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11).
      (6)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl-related compound
and any Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V controlled substance that is
not a fentanyl-related compound, one of the following applies:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(6)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of possession of drugs and shall be punished as
provided in division (C)(2) of this section. Except as otherwise provided in
division (C)(6)(b) of this section, the offender is not guilty of possession of
a fentanyl-related compound under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) and shall not be
charged with, convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) for
possession of a fentanyl-related compound.
         (b)   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of possession of a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11).
   (D)   Arrest or conviction for a minor misdemeanor violation of this section
does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s criminal
record, including any inquiries contained in any application for employment,
license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s
appearance as a witness.
   (E)   (1)   In addition to any prison term or jail term authorized or
required by division (C) of this section and R.C. §§ 2929.13, 2929.14, 2929.22,
2929.24, and 2929.25, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
in addition to any other sanction that is imposed for the offense under this
section, R.C. §§ 2929.11 through 2929.18, or R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court that sentences
an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (A)
of this section may suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit for not more than five years. However, if the offender
pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another state or the
United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the violation,
the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or permit for not more than five years.
      (2)   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition to
any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
   (F)   (1)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
      (2)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (F) of this section, the
sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.11)
Statutory reference:
    Felony drug possession offenses, see R.C. § 2925.11(C)
§ 138.04 POSSESSING DRUG ABUSE INSTRUMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make, obtain, possess, or use any
instrument, article, or thing the customary and primary purpose of which is for
the administration or use of a dangerous drug, other than marihuana, when the
instrument involved is a hypodermic or syringe, whether or not of crude or
extemporized manufacture or assembly, and the instrument, article, or thing
involved has been used by the offender to unlawfully administer or use a
dangerous drug, other than marihuana, or to prepare a dangerous drug, other
than marihuana, for unlawful administration or use.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, licensed health
professionals authorized to prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies,
and other persons whose conduct was in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719,
4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, and 4741.
      (2)   Division (B)(2) of R.C. § 2925.11 applies with respect to a
violation of this section when a person seeks or obtains medical assistance for
another person who is experiencing a drug overdose, a person experiences a drug
overdose and seeks medical assistance for that overdose, or a person is the
subject of another person seeking or obtaining medical assistance for that
overdose.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing drug abuse
instruments, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a drug abuse offense, violation of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016, may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (D)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.12)
§ 138.05 PERMITTING DRUG ABUSE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner, operator, or person in charge of a
locomotive, watercraft, aircraft, or other vehicle, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, shall knowingly permit the vehicle to be used for the commission of a
felony drug abuse offense.
   (B)   No person, who is the owner, lessee, or occupant, or who has custody,
control, or supervision of premises, or real estate, including vacant land,
shall knowingly permit his or her premises, or real estate, including vacant
land, to be used for the commission of a felony drug abuse offense by another
person.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of permitting drug abuse.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, permitting
drug abuse is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Permitting drug abuse is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the felony drug abuse offense in question is a
violation of R.C. § 2925.02, 2925.03, or 2925.04, or if the felony drug abuse
offense in question is a violation of R.C. § 2925.041 and the offender had
actual knowledge, at the time the offender permitted the vehicle, premises, or
real estate to be used as described in division (A) or (B) of this section,
that the person who assembled or possessed the chemicals in question in
violation of R.C. § 2925.041 had assembled or possessed them with the intent to
manufacture a controlled substance in Schedule I or Schedule II in violation of
R.C. § 2925.04.
   (D)   Any premises or real estate that is permitted to be used in violation
of division (B) of this section constitutes a nuisance subject to abatement
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2925.13(A) - (C), (F))
§ 138.06 ILLEGAL CULTIVATION OF MARIHUANA.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cultivate marihuana.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any person listed in R.C. § 2925.03(B)
(1), (B)(2) or (B)(3), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, to
the extent and under the circumstances described in that division.
   (C)   Whoever commits a violation of division (A) of this section is guilty
of illegal cultivation of marihuana.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in the following divisions, illegal
cultivation of marihuana is a minor misdemeanor or, if the offense was
committed in the vicinity of a school or in the vicinity of a juvenile, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   If the amount of marihuana involved equals or exceeds 100 grams but
is less than 200 grams, illegal cultivation of marihuana is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree or, if the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school
or in the vicinity of a juvenile, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (3)   If the amount of marihuana involved equals or exceeds 200 grams,
illegal cultivation of marihuana is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   Arrest or conviction for a minor misdemeanor violation of this section
does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s criminal
record, including any inquiries contained in any application for employment,
license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s
appearance as a witness.
(R.C. § 2925.04(A), (B), (C)(5), (G))
Statutory reference:
   Illegal manufacturing of controlled substances, felony, see R.C. § 2925.04
   Sale or use of drugs not approved by Food and Drug Administration, felony,
see R.C. § 2925.09
§ 138.07 ABUSING HARMFUL INTOXICANTS.
   (A)   Except for lawful research, clinical, medical, dental, or veterinary
purposes, no person, with purpose to induce intoxication or similar
physiological effects, shall obtain, possess, or use a harmful intoxicant.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of abusing harmful
intoxicants, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a drug abuse offense, abusing harmful intoxicants is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to the September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (C)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.31)
§ 138.08 ILLEGAL DISPENSING OF DRUG SAMPLES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly furnish a sample drug to another person.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to manufacturers,
wholesalers, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, licensed health professionals
authorized to prescribe drugs, and other persons whose conduct is in accordance
with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4725, 4729, 4730, 4731, and 4741.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal dispensing of
drug samples.
      (2)   If the drug involved in the offense is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule I or Schedule II, with the
exception of marihuana, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the offense is a dangerous drug or a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule
IV or Schedule V, or is marihuana, the penalty for the offense shall be
determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in the following division, illegal
dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
         (b)   If the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school or in
the vicinity of a juvenile, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2925.36(A) - (C))
Statutory reference:
   Felony offenses, see R.C. § 2925.36(C)(2)
§ 138.09 FEDERAL PROSECUTION BAR TO MUNICIPAL PROSECUTION.
   No person shall be prosecuted for a violation of this chapter if the person
has been acquitted or convicted under the federal drug abuse control laws of
the same act or omission which, it is alleged, constitutes a violation of this
chapter.
(R.C. §§ 2925.50, 3719.19)
§ 138.10 NITROUS OXIDE: IMPROPER DISPENSING OR DISTRIBUTION; POSSESSION IN A
MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   Improper dispensing or distribution.
      (1)   No person who dispenses or distributes nitrous oxide in cartridges
shall fail to comply with either of the following:
         (a)   The record-keeping requirements established under division (A)
(3) of this section.
         (b)   The labeling and transaction identification requirements
established under division (A)(4) of this section.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(1)(b) of this section is
guilty of improperly dispensing or distributing nitrous oxide, a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
      (3)   Beginning July 1, 2001, a person who dispenses or distributes
nitrous oxide shall record each transaction involving the dispensing or
distribution of the nitrous oxide on a separate card. The person shall require
the purchaser to sign the card and provide a complete residence address. The
person dispensing or distributing the nitrous oxide shall sign and date the
card. The person shall retain the card recording a transaction for one year
from the date of the transaction. The person shall maintain the cards at the
person’s business address and make them available during normal business hours
for inspection and copying by officers or employees of the State Board of
Pharmacy or of other law enforcement agencies that are authorized to
investigate violations of this code, R.C. Chapters 2925, 3719, or 4729, or
federal drug abuse control laws. The cards used to record each transaction
shall inform the purchaser of the following:
         (a)   That nitrous oxide cartridges are to be used only for purposes
of preparing food;
         (b)   That inhalation of nitrous oxide can have dangerous health
effects; and
         (c)   That it is a violation of state law to distribute or dispense
cartridges of nitrous oxide to any person under age 21, punishable as a felony
of the fifth degree.
      (4)   (a)   Each cartridge of nitrous oxide dispensed or distributed in
this municipality shall bear the following printed warning: “Nitrous oxide
cartridges are to be used only for purposes of preparing food. Nitrous oxide
cartridges may not be sold to persons under age 21. Do not inhale contents.
Misuse can be dangerous to your health.”
         (b)   Each time a person dispenses or distributes one or more
cartridges of nitrous oxide, the person shall mark the packaging containing the
cartridges with a label or other device that identifies the person who
dispensed or distributed the nitrous oxide and the person’s business address.
(R.C. § 2925.32(B)(4), (D)(2), (F), (G))
   (B)   Possession in a motor vehicle.
      (1)   As used in this section, MOTOR VEHICLE, STREET and HIGHWAY have the
same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      (2)   Unless authorized by this code or by state law, no person shall
possess an open cartridge of nitrous oxide in either of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   While operating or being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on
a street, highway, or other public or private property open to the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking.
         (b)   While being in or on a stationary motor vehicle on a street,
highway, or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular traffic or parking.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of possessing nitrous
oxide in a motor vehicle, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (4)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for
possessing nitrous oxide in a motor vehicle, the court may suspend for not more
than five years the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit.
(R.C. § 2925.33)
Statutory reference:
   Trafficking in harmful intoxicants, see R.C. § 2925.32
§ 138.11 LABORATORY REPORT REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of this chapter or
R.C. Chapters 2925 or 3719, a laboratory report from the Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation or a laboratory operated by another law
enforcement agency, or a laboratory established by or under the authority of an
institution of higher education that has its main campus in this state and that
is accredited by the Association of American Universities or the North Central
Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools, primarily for the purpose of
providing scientific service to law enforcement agencies, and signed by the
person performing the analysis, stating that the substance that is the basis of
the alleged offense has been weighed and analyzed and stating the findings as
to the content, weight, and identity of the substance and that it contains any
amount of a controlled substance and the number and description of unit
dosages, is prima facie evidence of the content, identity, and weight or the
existence and number of unit dosages of the substance. In any criminal
prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 2925.041 or a violation of this chapter,
R.C. Chapter 2925 or R.C. Chapter 3719 that is based on the possession of
chemicals sufficient to produce a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance
included in Schedule I, II, III, IV, or V, a laboratory report from the Bureau
or from any laboratory that is operated or established as described in this
division that is signed by the person performing the analysis, stating that the
substances that are the basis of the alleged offense have been weighed and
analyzed and stating the findings as to the content, weight, and identity of
each of the substances, is prima facie evidence of the content, identity, and
weight of the substances.
      (2)   Attached to that report shall be a copy of a notarized statement by
the signer of the report giving the name of the signer and stating that the
signer is an employee of the laboratory issuing the report and that performing
the analysis is a part of the signer’s regular duties, and giving an outline of
the signer’s education, training, and experience for performing an analysis of
materials included under this section. The signer shall attest that
scientifically accepted tests were performed with due caution, and that the
evidence was handled in accordance with established and accepted procedures
while in the custody of the laboratory.
   (B)   The prosecuting attorney shall serve a copy of the report on the
attorney of record for the accused, or on the accused if the accused has no
attorney, prior to any proceeding in which the report is to be used against the
accused other than at a preliminary hearing or grand jury proceeding where the
report may be used without having been previously served upon the accused.
   (C)   The report shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents,
identity, and weight or the existence and number of unit dosages of the
substance if the accused or the accused’s attorney demands the testimony of the
person signing the report, by serving the demand upon the prosecuting attorney,
within seven days from the accused or the accused’s attorney’s receipt of the
report. The time may be extended by a trial judge in the interests of justice.
   (D)   Any report issued for use under this section shall contain notice of
the right of the accused to demand, and the manner in which the accused shall
demand, the testimony of the person signing the report.
   (E)   Any person who is accused of a violation of this chapter or R.C.
Chapters 2925 or 3719 is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have a portion of the substance that is, or of each of the
substances that are, the basis of the alleged violation preserved for the
benefit of independent analysis performed by a laboratory analyst employed by
the accused person, or, if the accused is indigent, by a qualified laboratory
analyst appointed by the court. Such portion shall be a representative sample
of the entire substance that is, or of each of the substances that are, the
basis of the alleged violation and shall be of sufficient size, in the opinion
of the court, to permit the accused’s analyst to make a thorough scientific
analysis concerning the identity of the substance or substances. The
prosecuting attorney shall provide the accused’s analyst with the sample
portion at least 14 days prior to trial, unless the trial is to be held in a
court not of record or unless the accused person is charged with a minor
misdemeanor, in which case the prosecuting attorney shall provide the accused’s
analyst with the sample portion at least three days prior to trial. If the
prosecuting attorney determines that such a sample portion cannot be preserved
and given to the accused’s analyst, the prosecuting attorney shall so inform
the accused person, or the accused’s attorney. In such a circumstance, the
accused person is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have the accused’s privately employed or court appointed analyst
present at an analysis of the substance that is, or the substances that are,
the basis of the alleged violation, and, upon further written request, to
receive copies of all recorded scientific data that result from the analysis
and that can be used by an analyst in arriving at conclusions, findings, or
opinions concerning the identity of the substance or substances subject to the
analysis.
   (F)   In addition to the rights provided under division (E) of this section,
any person who is accused of a violation of this chapter or R.C. Chapters 2925
or 3719 that involves a bulk amount of a controlled substance, or any multiple
thereof, or who is accused of a violation of R.C. § 2925.11 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, other than a minor misdemeanor violation, that
involves marihuana, is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have a laboratory analyst of the accused’s choice, or, if the
accused is indigent, a qualified laboratory analyst appointed by the court,
present at a measurement or weighing of the substance that is the basis of the
alleged violation. Also, the accused person is entitled, upon further written
request, to receive copies of all recorded scientific data that result from the
measurement or weighing and that can be used by an analyst in arriving at
conclusions, findings, or opinions concerning the weight, volume, or number of
unit doses of the substance subject to the measurement or weighing.
(R.C. § 2925.51)
   (G)   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required under
R.C. §§ 2929.18 and 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required
under any provision of law, the court imposing sentence upon an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a drug abuse offense may order the offender to
pay to the state, municipal, or county law enforcement agencies that handled
the investigation and prosecution all of the costs that the state, municipal
corporation, or county reasonably incurred in having tests performed under this
section or R.C. § 2925.51 or in any other manner on any substance that was the
basis of, or involved in, the offense to determine whether the substance
contained any amount of a controlled substance if the results of the tests
indicate that the substance tested contained any controlled substance. No court
shall order an offender under this section to pay the costs of tests performed
on a substance if the results of the tests do not indicate that the substance
tested contained any controlled substance. The court shall hold a hearing to
determine the amount of costs to be imposed under this section. The court may
hold the hearing as part of the sentencing hearing for the offender.
(R.C. § 2925.511)
§ 138.12 COUNTERFEIT CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly possess any counterfeit controlled
substance.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be guilty of
possession of counterfeit controlled substances, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2925.37(A), (G))
Statutory reference:
   Trafficking and other felony counterfeit controlled substance offenses, see
R.C. § 2925.37(H) - (M)
§ 138.13 USE, POSSESSION, OR SALE OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   As used in this section, DRUG PARAPHERNALIA means any equipment,
product, or material of any kind that is used by the offender, intended by the
offender for use, or designed for use, in propagating, cultivating, growing,
harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing,
preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing,
concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the
human body, a controlled substance in violation of this chapter. The term
includes but is not limited to any of the following equipment, products, or
materials that are used by the offender, intended by the offender for use, or
designed by the offender for use, in any of the following manners:
      (1)   A kit for propagating, cultivating, growing, or harvesting any
species of a plant that is a controlled substance or from which a controlled
substance can be derived.
      (2)   A kit for manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
processing, or preparing a controlled substance.
      (3)   Any object, instrument, or device for manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing, or preparing methamphetamine.
      (4)   An isomerization device for increasing the potency of any species
of a plant that is a controlled substance.
      (5)   Testing equipment for identifying, or analyzing the strength,
effectiveness, or purity of, a controlled substance, except for those exempted
in division (D)(4) of this section;
      (6)   A scale or balance for weighing or measuring a controlled
substance.
      (7)   A diluent or adulterant, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose, or lactose, for cutting a controlled substance.
      (8)   A separation gin or sifter for removing twigs and seeds from, or
otherwise cleaning or refining, marihuana.
      (9)   A blender, bowl, container, spoon, or mixing device for compounding
a controlled substance.
      (10)   A capsule, balloon, envelope, or container for packaging small
quantities of a controlled substance.
      (11)   A container or device for storing or concealing a controlled
substance.
      (12)   A hypodermic syringe, needle, or instrument for parenterally
injecting a controlled substance into the human body.
      (13)   An object, instrument, or device for ingesting, inhaling, or
otherwise introducing into the human body, marihuana, cocaine, hashish, or
hashish oil, such as a metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or
ceramic pipe, with or without a screen, permanent screen, hashish head, or
punctured metal bowl; water pipe; carburetion tube or device; smoking or
carburetion mask; roach clip or similar object used to hold burning material,
such as a marihuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be
held in the hand; miniature cocaine spoon, or cocaine vial; chamber pipe;
carburetor pipe; electric pipe; air driver pipe; chillum; bong; or ice pipe or
chiller.
   (B)   In determining if any equipment, product, or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, the following:
      (1)   Any statement by the owner or by anyone in control of the
equipment, product, or material, concerning its use.
      (2)   The proximity in time or space of the equipment, product, or
material, or of the act relating to the equipment, product, or material, to a
violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2925.
      (3)   The proximity of the equipment, product, or material to any
controlled substance.
      (4)   The existence of any residue of a controlled substance on the
equipment, product, or material.
      (5)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of the owner, or of
anyone in control, of the equipment, product, or material, to deliver it to any
person whom he or she knows intends to use the equipment, product, or material
to facilitate a violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter
2925. A finding that the owner or anyone in control of the equipment, product,
or material is not guilty of a violation of any other provision of this chapter
or R.C. Chapter 2925 does not prevent a finding that the equipment, product, or
material was intended or designed by the offender for use as drug
paraphernalia.
      (6)   Any oral or written instruction provided with the equipment,
product, or material concerning its use.
      (7)   Any descriptive material accompanying the equipment, product, or
material and explaining or depicting its use.
      (8)   National or local advertising concerning the use of the equipment,
product, or material.
      (9)   The manner and circumstances in which the equipment, product, or
material is displayed for sale.
      (10)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of the sales of the
equipment, product, or material to the total sales of the business enterprise.
      (11)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses of the equipment,
product, or material in the community.
      (12)   Expert testimony concerning the use of the equipment, product, or
material.
   (C)   (1)   Subject to divisions (D)(2), (D)(3), and (D)(4) of this section,
no person shall knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use, drug
paraphernalia.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly sell, or possess or manufacture with
purpose to sell, drug paraphernalia, if he or she knows or reasonably should
know that the equipment, product, or material will be used as drug
paraphernalia.
      (3)   No person shall place an advertisement in any newspaper, magazine,
handbill, or other publication that is published and printed and circulates
primarily within this state, if he or she knows that the purpose of the
advertisement is to promote the illegal sale in this municipality or in this
state of the equipment, product, or material that the offender intended or
designed for use as drug paraphernalia.
   (D)   (1)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, licensed health
professionals authorized to prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies,
and other persons whose conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715,
4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, and 4741. This section shall not be construed to
prohibit the possession or use of a hypodermic as authorized by R.C. §
3719.172.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a person’s use,
or possession with purpose to use, any drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a
product, or material of any kind that is used by the person, intended by the
person for use, or designed for use in storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the human body
marihuana.
      (3)   Division (B)(2) of R.C. § 2925.11 applies with respect to a
violation of division (C)(1) of this section when a person seeks or obtains
medical assistance for another person who is experiencing a drug overdose, a
person experiences a drug overdose and seeks medical assistance for that
overdose, or a person is the subject of another person seeking or obtaining
medical assistance for that overdose.
      (4)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a person’s use,
or possession with purpose to use, any drug testing strips to determine the
presence of fentanyl or a fentanyl-related compound.
   (E)   Notwithstanding R.C. Chapter 2981, any drug paraphernalia that was
used, possessed, sold, or manufactured in violation of this section shall be
seized, after a conviction for that violation, shall be forfeited, and upon
forfeiture shall be disposed of pursuant to R.C. § 2981.12(B).
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (C)(1) of this section is guilty of
illegal use or possession of drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (F)(3) of this section, whoever
violates division (C)(2) of this section is guilty of dealing in drug
paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C)(2) of this section by selling drug
paraphernalia to a juvenile is guilty of selling drug paraphernalia to
juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (C)(3) of this section is guilty of
illegal advertising of drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016, may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (G)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.14)
   (H)   Illegal use or possession of marihuana drug paraphernalia.
      (1)   As used in this division (H), DRUG PARAPHERNALIA has the same
meaning as in division (A) of this section.
      (2)   In determining if any equipment, product, or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, all factors identified in division (B) of this
section.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use, any
drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a product, or material of any kind that
is used by the person, intended by the person for use, or designed for use in
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing into the human body marihuana.
      (4)   This division (H) does not apply to any person identified in
division (D)(1) of this section, and it shall not be construed to prohibit the
possession or use of a hypodermic as authorized by R.C. § 3719.172.
      (5)   (a)   Division (E) of this section applies with respect to any drug
paraphernalia that was used or possessed in violation of division (H) of this
section.
         (b)   Division (B)(2) of R.C. § 2925.11 applies with respect to a
violation of this division (H) when a person seeks or obtains medical
assistance for another person who is experiencing a drug overdose, a person
experiences a drug overdose and seeks medical assistance for that overdose, or
a person is the subject of another person seeking or obtaining medical
assistance for that overdose.
      (6)   (a)   Whoever violates division (H)(3) of this section is guilty of
illegal use or possession of marihuana drug paraphernalia, a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   Arrest or conviction for a violation of division (H)(3) of this
section does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the
person so arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s
criminal record, including any inquiries contained in any application for
employment, license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with
the person’s appearance as a witness.
      (7)   (a)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender
for a violation of division (H) of this section, the court shall do the
following, if applicable:
            1.   If the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a
violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially similar municipal ordinance or
the law of another state or the United States arising out of the same set of
circumstances as the violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or permit for not more than five years.
            2.   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
         (b)   1.   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under division (H)
of this section prior to September 13, 2016, may file a motion with the
sentencing court requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an
offender who pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another
state or the United States that arose out of the same set of circumstances as
the violation for which the offender’s license or permit was suspended under
division (H) of this section shall not file such a motion.
            2.   Upon the filing of a motion under division (H)(7)(b) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.141)
§ 138.14 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE OR PRESCRIPTION LABELS.
   (A)   Whenever a manufacturer sells a controlled substance, and whenever a
wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility sells a controlled substance in
a package the wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility has prepared, the
manufacturer or the wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility, as the
case may be, shall securely affix to each package in which the controlled
substance is contained a label showing in legible English the name and address
of the vendor and the quantity, kind, and form of controlled substance
contained therein. No person, except a pharmacist for the purpose of dispensing
a controlled substance upon a prescription shall alter, deface, or remove any
label so affixed. As used in this division, “repackager” and “outsourcing
facility” have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   (B)   No person shall alter, deface or remove any label affixed pursuant to
R.C. § 3719.08 as long as any of the original contents remain.
(R.C. § 3719.08(A), (E))
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this
section, or R.C. § 3719.07 or 3719.08, or a drug abuse offense, a violation of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the
violation involves the sale, offer to sell, or possession of a Schedule I or II
controlled substance, with the exception of marihuana, and if the offender, as
a result of the violation, is a major drug offender, then R.C. § 3719.99(D)
applies.
(R.C. § 3719.99(C))
§ 138.15 POSSESSION, SALE AND DISPOSAL OF HYPODERMICS.
   (A)   Possession of a hypodermic is authorized for the following:
      (1)   A manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in hypodermics, or
medication packaged in hypodermics, and any authorized agent of employee of
that manufacturer, distributor or dealer, in the regular course of business;
      (2)   A terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, in the regular course of
business;
      (3)   A person authorized to administer injections, in the regular course
of the person’s profession or employment;
      (4)   A person, when the hypodermic in his possession was lawfully
obtained and is kept and used for the purpose of self-administration of insulin
or other drug prescribed for the treatment of disease by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs;
      (5)   A person whose use of a hypodermic is for legal research, clinical,
educational or medicinal purposes;
      (6)   A farmer, for the lawful administration of a drug to an animal;
      (7)   A person whose use of a hypodermic is for lawful professional,
mechanical, trade or craft purposes.
   (B)   No manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in, hypodermics or
medication packaged in hypodermics, or their authorized agents or employees,
and no terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, shall display any hypodermic
for sale. No person authorized to possess a hypodermic pursuant to division (A)
of this section shall negligently fail to take reasonable precautions to
prevent any hypodermic in the person’s possession from theft or acquisition by
any unauthorized person.
(R.C. § 3719.172(A), (B))
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (B) of this section, R.C. § 3719.05, 3719.06,
3719.13, 3719.172(B), or 3719.31, or a drug abuse offense, a violation of
division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 3719.99(E))
Statutory reference:
   Felony offenses, see R.C. § 3719.172(C) and (D)
§ 138.16 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE SCHEDULES.
   Controlled Substance Schedules I, II, III, IV, and V, as established in R.C.
§ 3719.41 and amended by R.C. §§ 3719.43 and 3719.44, are hereby adopted by
reference, and shall be treated as if set forth in full herein.
§ 138.17 UNLAWFUL FURNISHING OF PRESCRIPTION TO ENABLE PERSONS TO BE ISSUED
HANDICAPPED PARKING PLACARDS OR LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)   No physician or chiropractor shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Furnish a person with a prescription in order to enable the person
to be issued a standard removable windshield placard, temporary removable
windshield placard, permanent removable windshield placard, or license plates
under R.C. § 4503.44, knowing that the person does not meet any of the criteria
contained in R.C. § 4503.44(A)(1).
      (2)   Furnish a person with a prescription described in division (A)(1)
of this section and knowingly misstate on the prescription the length of time
the physician or chiropractor expects the person to have the disability that
limits or impairs the person’s ability to walk in order to enable the person to
retain a placard issued under R.C. § 4503.44 for a period of time longer than
that which would be estimated by a similar practitioner under the same or
similar circumstances.
(R.C. §§ 4731.481, 4734.161)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. §§ 4731.99(F), 4734.99(B))
Cross-reference:
    Parking privileges for persons with disabilities, see §
76.05
§ 138.18 SALE OF PSEUDOEPHEDRINE.
   (A)   Unlawful purchases.
      (1)   As used in divisions (A), (B), (C) and (D) of this section:
         CONSUMER PRODUCT. Any food or drink that is consumed or used by humans
and any drug, including a drug that may be provided legally only pursuant to a
prescription, that is intended to be consumed or used by humans.
         EPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of ephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or salts
of optical isomers.
         EPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains ephedrine.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of pseudoephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or
salts of optical isomers.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains
pseudoephedrine.
         RETAILER. A place of business that offers consumer products for sale
to the general public.
         SINGLE-INGREDIENT PREPARATION. A compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that contains a single active ingredient.
         TERMINAL DISTRIBUTOR OF DANGEROUS DRUGS. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 4729.01.
      (2)   (a)   1.   No individual shall knowingly purchase, receive, or
otherwise acquire an amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
that is greater than either of the following unless the pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product is dispensed by a pharmacist pursuant to a valid
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs and the conduct of the pharmacist and the licensed health professional
authorized to prescribe drugs is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715,
4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741:
               a.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single day;
               b.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
            2.   The limits specified in divisions (A)(2)(a)1.a. and (A)(2)
(a)1.b. of this section apply to the total amount of base pseudoephedrine or
base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product,
respectively. The limits do not apply to the product’s overall weight.
         (b)   It is not a violation of division (B)(1) of this section for an
individual to receive or accept more than an amount of pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product specified in division (A)(2)(a)1.a. or (A)(2)(a)1.b. of
this section if the individual is an employee of a retailer or terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs, and the employee receives or accepts from the
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs the pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product in a sealed container in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (3)   (a)   No individual under 18 years of age shall knowingly purchase,
receive, or otherwise acquire a pseudoephedrine product, or ephedrine product
unless the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product is dispensed by a
pharmacist pursuant to a valid prescription issued by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs and the conduct of the pharmacist
and the licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs is in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741.
         (b)   Division (A)(3)(a) of this section does not apply to an
individual under 18 years of age who purchases, receives, or otherwise acquires
a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product from any of the following:
            1.   A licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs
or pharmacist who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides the pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to that individual and whose conduct is in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741;
            2.   A parent or guardian of that individual who provides the
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            3.   A person, as authorized by that individual’s parent or
guardian, who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides the pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            4.   A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs who
provides the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to that individual if
the individual is an employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of
dangerous drugs and the individual receives or accepts from the retailer or
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs the pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product in a sealed container in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (4)   No individual under 18 years of age shall knowingly show or give
false information concerning the individual’s name, age, or other
identification for the purpose of purchasing, receiving, or otherwise acquiring
a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product.
      (5)   No individual shall knowingly fail to comply with the requirements
of R.C. § 3715.051(B).
      (6)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawful purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (A)(3)(a) of this section is guilty of
underage purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if it could be
committed by an adult.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of using
false information to purchase a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the first degree if it could be
committed by an adult.
      (9)   Whoever violates division (A)(5) of this section is guilty of
improper purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2925.55)
   (B)   Unlawful retail sales.
      (1)   (a)   1.   Except as provided in division (B)(1)(b) of this
section, no retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs or an employee
of a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall knowingly sell,
offer to sell, hold for sale, deliver, or otherwise provide to any individual
an amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product that is greater than
either of the following:
               a.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single day;
               b.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
            2.   The maximum amounts specified in divisions (B)(1)(a)1.a. and
(B)(1)(a)1.b. of this section apply to the total amount of base pseudoephedrine
or base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product,
respectively. The maximum amounts do not apply to the product’s overall weight.
         (b)   1.   Division (B)(1)(a) of this section does not apply to any
quantity of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product dispensed by a
pharmacist pursuant to a valid prescription issued by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs if the conduct of the pharmacist and
the licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs is in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741.
            2.   It is not a violation of division (B)(1)(a) of this section
for a retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, or employee of either
to provide to an individual more than an amount of pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product specified in division (B)(1)(a)1.a. or (B)(1)(a)1.b. of this
section under either of the following circumstances:
               a.   The individual is an employee of the retailer or terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs, and the employee receives or accepts from the
retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, or employee the
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product in a sealed container in
connection with manufacturing, warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging,
loading, or unloading of the product;
               b.   A stop-sale alert is generated after the submission of
information to the national precursor log exchange under the conditions
described in R.C. § 3715.052(A)(2).
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this section, no
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs or an employee of a
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall sell, offer to sell,
hold for sale, deliver, or otherwise provide a pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product to an individual who is under 18 years of age.
         (b)   Division (B)(2)(a) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
            1.   A licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs
or pharmacist who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides a pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to an individual under 18 years of age and whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731,
or 4741;
            2.   A parent or guardian of an individual under 18 years of age
who provides a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            3.   A person who, as authorized by the individual’s parent or
guardian, dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides a pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product to an individual under 18 years of age;
            4.   The provision by a retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs, or employee of either of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
in a sealed container to an employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of
dangerous drugs who is under 18 years of age in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (3)   No retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall fail
to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 3715.051(A) or R.C. § 3715.052(A)(2).
      (4)   No retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall fail
to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 3715.052(A)(1).
      (5)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawfully selling a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (B)(2)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawfully selling a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to a minor, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section is guilty of
improper sale of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a misdemeanor
of the second degree.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (B)(4) of this section is guilty of
failing to submit information to the national precursor log exchange, a
misdemeanor for which the offender shall be fined not more than $1,000 per
violation.
(R.C. § 2925.56)
   (C)   Transaction scans.
      (1)   As used in this division and division (D) of this section:
         CARD HOLDER. Means any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a seller, or an agent or employee
of a seller, to purchase or receive any pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product from the seller, agent, or employee.
         IDENTIFICATION CARD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2927.021.
         SELLER. Means a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs.
         TRANSACTION SCAN. Means the process by which a seller or an agent or
employee of a seller checks by means of a transaction scan device the validity
of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card that is
presented as a condition for purchasing or receiving any pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product.
         TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2927.021.
      (2)   (a)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may perform a
transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the validity of
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a
card holder as a condition for selling, giving away, or otherwise distributing
to the card holder a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product.
         (b)   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (C)(2)(a) of this section fails to match the information printed
on the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information
so printed is false or fraudulent, neither the seller nor any agent or employee
of the seller shall sell, give away, or otherwise distribute any
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the card holder.
         (c)   Division (C)(2)(a) of this section does not preclude a seller or
an agent or employee of a seller as a condition for selling, giving away, or
otherwise distributing a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the
person presenting the document from using a transaction scan device to check
the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or an identification card if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip
that may be scanned by the device.
      (3)   Rules adopted by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. §
4301.61(C) apply to the use of transaction scan devices for purposes of this
division (C) and division (D) of this section.
      (4)   (a)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except the following:
            1.   The name, address, and date of birth of the person listed on
the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by
a card holder;
            2.   The expiration date, identification number, and issuing agency
of the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by a card holder.
         (b)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use the
information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to be
recorded and maintained under division (C)(4)(a) of this section except for
purposes of division (D) of this section, R.C. § 2925.58, or R.C. § 3715.052(A)
(1).
         (c)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use a
transaction scan device for a purpose other than the purpose specified in
division (C)(2)(a) of this section.
         (d)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall sell or
otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising, or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by division (D) of this section
or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (C) or division (D) of this section
relieves a seller or an agent or employee of a seller of any responsibility to
comply with any other applicable state or federal laws or rules governing the
sale, giving away, or other distribution of pseudoephedrine products or
ephedrine products.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (C)(2)(b) or (C)(4) of this section is
guilty of engaging in an illegal pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender a civil penalty of
up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the Court shall pay each
collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into the County
Treasury.
(R.C. § 2925.57)
   (D)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may not be found
guilty of a charge of a violation of division (B) of this section in which the
age of the purchaser or other recipient of a pseudoephedrine product is an
element of the alleged violation if the seller, agent, or employee raises and
proves as an affirmative defense that all of the following occurred:
         (a)   A card holder attempting to purchase or receive a
pseudoephedrine product presented a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
an identification card.
         (b)   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that
the license or card was valid.
         (c)   The pseudoephedrine product was sold, given away, or otherwise
distributed to the card holder in reasonable reliance upon the identification
presented and the completed transaction scan.
      (2)   In determining whether a seller or an agent or employee of a seller
has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (D)(1) of this section,
the trier of fact in the action for the alleged violation of division (B) of
this section shall consider any written policy that the seller has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of division (B) of this
section. For purposes of division (D)(1)(c) of this section, the trier of fact
shall consider that reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan may require a seller or an agent or employee of
a seller to exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a
transaction scan device does not excuse a seller or an agent or employee of a
seller from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
         (a)   Whether a person to whom the seller or agent or employee of a
seller sells, gives away, or otherwise distributes a pseudoephedrine product is
18 years of age or older;
         (b)   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
      (3)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by
division (D)(1) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a
deputy registrar who issued an identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50
through 4507.52 shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of
that issuance in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles in the action.
(R.C. § 2925.58)
   (E)   Retailer’s duties.
      (1)   As used in divisions (E) and (F) of this section:
         CONSUMER PRODUCT. Any food or drink that is consumed or used by humans
and any drug, including a drug that may be provided legally only pursuant to a
prescription, that is intended to be consumed or used by humans.
         DRUG. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         EPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of ephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or salts
of optical isomers.
         EPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains ephedrine.
         LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. An officer or employee of any agency or
authority of the United States, a state, a territory, a political subdivision
of a state or territory, or an Indian tribe, who is empowered by the law to
investigate or conduct an official inquiry into a potential violation of law or
prosecute or otherwise conduct a criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding
arising from an alleged violation of law.
         LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS. Has the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         NATIONAL PRECURSOR LOG EXCHANGE or EXCHANGE. The electronic system for
tracking sales of pseudoephedrine products and ephedrine products on a national
basis that is administered by the National Association of Drug Diversion
Investigators or a successor organization.
         PHARMACIST. A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 to engage in the
practice of pharmacy.
         PHARMACY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PRESCRIBER. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PRESCRIPTION. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PROOF OF AGE. A driver’s license, a commercial driver’s license, a
military identification card, a passport, or an identification card issued
under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52 that shows a person is 18 years of age or
older.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of pseudoephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or
salts of optical isomers.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains
pseudoephedrine.
         RETAILER. A place of business that offers consumer products for sale
to the general public.
         SINGLE-INGREDIENT PREPARATION. A compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that contains a single active ingredient.
         STOP-SALE ALERT. A notification sent from the national precursor log
exchange to a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs indicating
that the completion of a sale of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
would result in a violation of R.C. § 2925.56(A)(1) or federal law.
         TERMINAL DISTRIBUTOR OF DANGEROUS DRUGS. Has the same meanings as in
R.C. § 4729.01.
         WHOLESALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
      (2)   A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs that sells,
offers to sell, holds for sale, delivers, or otherwise provides a
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the public shall do all of the
following:
         (a)   Segregate pseudoephedrine products or ephedrine products from
other merchandise so that no member of the public may procure or purchase such
products without the direct assistance of a pharmacist or other authorized
employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs;
         (b)   With regard to each time a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product is sold or otherwise provided without a valid prescription:
            1.   Determine, by examination of a valid proof of age, that the
purchaser or recipient is at least 18 years of age;
            2.   a.   Using any information available, including information
from the national precursor log exchange if the information is accessible, make
a reasonable attempt to ensure that no individual purchases or receives an
amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product that is greater than
either of the following:
                  i.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single
day;
                  ii.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
               b.   The maximum amounts specified in divisions (E)(2)(b)2.a.i.
and (E)(2)(b)2.a.ii. of this section apply to the total amount of base
pseudoephedrine or base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product, respectively. The maximum amounts do not apply to the product’s
overall weight.
         (c)   Maintain a log book of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product purchases, in accordance with R.C. § 3715.051;
         (d)   If required to comply with section R.C. § 3715.052, submit the
information specified in divisions (A)(1)(a) to (A)(1)(d) of that section to
the national precursor log exchange.
      (3)   Prescriptions, orders, and records maintained pursuant to this
section and stocks of pseudoephedrine products and ephedrine products shall be
open for inspection to federal, state, county, and municipal officers, and
employees of the State Board of Pharmacy whose duty it is to enforce the laws
of this state or of the United States relating to controlled substances. Such
prescriptions, orders, records, and stocks shall be open for inspection by the
State Medical Board and its employees for purposes of enforcing R.C. Chapter
4731.
(R.C. § 3715.05)
   (F)   Theft or loss; reporting requirements.
      (1)   Each retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, pharmacy,
prescriber, or wholesaler that sells, offers to sell, holds for sale, delivers,
or otherwise provides any pseudoephedrine product and that discovers the theft
or loss of any pseudoephedrine product in an amount of more than nine grams per
incident of theft or loss shall notify all of the following upon discovery of
the theft or loss:
         (a)   The State Board of Pharmacy, by telephone immediately upon
discovery of the theft or loss;
         (b)   Law enforcement authorities. If the incident is a theft and the
theft constitutes a felony, the retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs, pharmacy, prescriber, or wholesaler shall report the theft to the law
enforcement authorities in accordance with R.C. § 2921.22.
      (2)   Within 30 days after making a report by telephone to the State
Board of Pharmacy pursuant to division (F)(1)(a) of this section, a retailer,
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, pharmacy, prescriber, or wholesaler
shall send a written report to the State Board of Pharmacy.
      (3)   The reports required under this section shall identify the product
that was stolen or lost, the amount of the product stolen or lost, and the date
and time of discovery of the theft or loss.
(R.C. § 3715.06)
§ 138.19 SALE OF PURE CAFFEINE PRODUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section, PURE CAFFEINE PRODUCT means:
      (1)   Subject to division (A)(2) of this section, a product that consists
solely or primarily of caffeine and is manufactured into a crystalline, liquid,
or powdered form.
      (2)   The phrase does not include any of the following that contains
caffeine and is formulated, manufactured, and labeled in accordance with the
laws and regulations enforced by the United States Food and Drug
Administration:
         (a)   Coffee, tea, any soft drink, any energy drink, or any other
caffeine-containing beverage;
         (b)   Any energy product.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, no person shall
knowingly sell or offer for sale a pure caffeine product.
   (C)   Division (B) of this section does not prohibit a person from selling
or offering for sale any product manufactured in a unit-dose form such as a
pill, tablet, or caplet, but only if each unit dose of the product contains not
more than 250 milligrams of caffeine.
   (D)   Nothing in this section prohibits either of the following:
      (1)   Possession of a product described in division (C) of this section;
      (2)   Possession of a pure caffeine product by any of the following:
         (a)   A food processing establishment, as defined in R.C. § 3715.021;
         (b)   A manufacturer of a drug that is available without a
prescription;
         (c)   A laboratory that holds a current, valid category III terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs license issued by the state board of pharmacy
under R.C. § 4729.54;
         (d)   A laboratory of any agency or department of this state that
performs testing, analysis, and other laboratory services on behalf of the
state;
         (e)   A postal or delivery service that transports or delivers a pure
caffeine product to an entity specified in divisions (D)(2)(a) to (D)(2)(d) of
this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegal
sale of pure caffeine, a minor misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor
of the third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 2925.34)
§ 138.20 SALE OF DEXTROMETHORPHAN.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      DEXTROMETHORPHAN. The dextrorotatory isomer of 3-methoxy-N-
methylmorphinan, including its salts, but not including its racemic or
levorotatory forms.
      EVIDENCE OF MAJORITY AND IDENTITY. Means a document issued by the federal
government or a state, county, or municipal government, or a subdivision or
agency of any of the foregoing, including a driver’s or commercial driver’s
license, an identification card issued under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52, a
military identification card, or any other form of identification that bears
the name, date of birth, description, and picture of the person identified.
      RETAILER. Means a place of business that offers consumer products for
sale to the general public, including a terminal distributor of dangerous drugs
that is licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 and operated as a pharmacy.
   (B)   No retailer or employee of a retailer shall knowingly supply, deliver,
give, or otherwise provide a drug, material, compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance containing any quantity of dextromethorphan through the sale of any
product to a person under 18 years of age, unless the person has been issued a
prescription for the product being purchased.
   (C)   For purposes of division (B) of this section, the person making the
sale of a product containing dextromethorphan shall require and obtain evidence
of majority and identity from the purchaser, unless from the purchaser’s
outward appearance the person making the sale would reasonably presume the
purchaser to be 25 years of age or older. Proof that the person making the sale
demanded, was shown, and acted in reasonable reliance on the purchaser’s
evidence of majority and identity is a defense to any charge of a violation of
division (B) of this section.
   (D)   A retailer or employee of a retailer is not liable for damages in a
civil action for injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly
arises from an act or omission associated with a failure to prevent the sale of
a product containing dextromethorphan to a person under 18 years of age, unless
the act or omission constitutes willful or wanton misconduct.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegally
selling dextromethorphan, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2925.62)
§ 138.21 ADULT USE CANNABIS CONTROL; LIMITATIONS ON CONDUCT BY INDIVIDUALS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780 and notwithstanding
any conflicting provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code, an adult use
consumer, may do the following:
      (1)   Use adult use cannabis;
      (2)   Possess, transfer without remuneration to another adult consumer,
or transport adult use cannabis, subject to division (B) of this section; and
      (3)   Purchase adult use cannabis from an adult use dispensary per day in
amounts that do not exceed the possession limits set forth in division (B)(1)
of this section.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3796:
      (1)   The amount of cannabis that may be possessed by an adult use
consumer shall not exceed:
         (a)   Two and one-half ounces of adult use cannabis in any form except
adult use extract; and
         (b)   Fifteen grams of adult use cannabis in the form of adult use
extract.
      (2)   The amount of cannabis that may be transferred by an adult use
consumer without remuneration and not advertised or promoted to the public
shall not exceed:
         (a)   Two and one-half ounces of adult use cannabis in any form except
adult use extract; and
         (b)   Fifteen grams of adult use cannabis in the form of adult use
extract.
      (3)   The amount of cannabis that may be transported by an adult use
consumer shall not exceed:
         (a)   Two and one-half ounces of adult use cannabis in any form except
adult use extract; and
         (b)   Fifteen grams of adult use cannabis in the form of adult use
extract.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780, an adult use
consumer shall not be subject to arrest, criminal prosecution, or civil penalty
for engaging in any of the activities authorized under R.C. Chapter 3780,
including:
      (1)   Obtaining, using, possessing, or transporting adult use cannabis;
      (2)   Performing conduct authorized under R.C. § 3780.29;
      (3)   Acquiring, possessing, using, purchasing, manufacturing, selling,
or transporting paraphernalia; and
      (4)   Assisting another adult use consumer, or allowing property to be
used, in any of the acts authorized by R.C. Chapter 3780.
   (D)   (1)   An individual is prohibited from operating a vehicle, motor
vehicle, streetcar, trackless trolley, bike, watercraft, or aircraft while
using adult use cannabis or while under the influence of adult use cannabis and
is subject to R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance
for any violation of this division.
      (2)   An individual is prohibited from smoking, vaporizing, or using any
other combustible adult use cannabis product while in a vehicle, motor vehicle,
streetcar, trackless trolley, bike, watercraft, or aircraft and is subject to
R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance for any
violation of this division.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780, no individual under
21 years of age shall knowingly show or give false information concerning the
individual’s name, age, or other identification for the purpose of purchasing
adult use cannabis from an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C. Chapter
3780.
   (F)   Nothing in R.C. Chapter 3780 is intended to permit the transfer or
sale of adult use cannabis, with or without remuneration, to an individual
under 21 years of age, or to allow an individual under 21 years of age to
purchase, possess, use, process, transport, or cultivate cannabis except where
authorized by R.C. Chapter 3796.
   (G)   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian to knowingly permit their
residence, any other private property under their control, or any vehicle,
conveyance, or watercraft under their control to be used by an invitee of the
parent’s child or the guardian’s ward, if the invitee is under 21 years of age,
in a manner that constitutes a violation of R.C. Chapter 3780.
      (1)   A parent or guardian is deemed to have knowingly permitted their
residence, any other private property under their control, or any vehicle,
conveyance, or watercraft under their control to be used in violation of R.C.
Chapter 3780 if they knowingly authorize or permit consumption of cannabis by
underage invitees.
      (2)   Where the residence or other property has an owner and a tenant or
lessee, the trier of fact may infer that the residence or other property is
occupied only by the tenant or lessee.
(R.C. § 3780.36)
   (H)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3796, R.C. § 2925.11
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall apply when an adult use
consumer possesses an amount of cannabis greater than the limits set forth in
division (B)(1) of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780, an adult use
consumer who uses adult use cannabis in public areas, or who violates division
(D)(2) of this section as a passenger, is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   (a)   An individual under 21 years of age who knowingly shows or
gives false information concerning the individual’s name, age, or other
identification for the purpose of purchasing or otherwise obtaining adult use
cannabis from an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C. Chapter 3780 is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If, in committing a first
violation, the offender presented to an adult use dispensary licensed under
R.C. Chapter 3780 a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false
or fictitious driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s
license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than $250 and not
more than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more
than six months.
         (b)   On a second violation in which, for the second time, the
offender presented to an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C. Chapter 3780
a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false or fictitious
driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s license issued
by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree and shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000,
and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than six months. The
court also may impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege from
the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7). The court, in lieu of suspending
the offender’s temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or
driver’s license, instead may order the offender to perform a determinate
number of hours of community service, with the court determining the actual
number of hours and the nature of the community service the offender shall
perform.
         (c)   On a third or subsequent violation in which, for the third or
subsequent time, the offender presented to an adult use dispensary licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3780 a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a
false or fictitious driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a
driver’s license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than
$500 nor more than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of
not more than six months. Except as provided in this division, the court also
may impose a class six suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6), and the court may order that the suspension
or denial remain in effect until the offender attains the age of 21 years. The
court, in lieu of suspending the offender’s temporary instruction permit,
probationary driver’s license, or driver’s license, instead may order the
offender to perform a determinate number of hours of community service, with
the court determining the actual number of hours and the nature of the
community service the offender shall perform.
      (4)   An individual who is under 21 years of age and who solicits another
individual to purchase adult use cannabis from an adult use dispensary licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3780 is guilty of:
         (a)   For a first violation, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; and
         (b)   For a second or subsequent violation, a misdemeanor of the
second degree.
      (5)   An employee or agent of an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C.
Chapter 3780 who knowingly sells cannabis to an individual under 21 years of
age is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (6)   Any individual who violates R.C. § 3780.10(A), or R.C. § 3780.29
(F), is guilty of the illegal trafficking in drugs under R.C. § 2925.03 and the
illegal manufacture of drugs under R.C. § 2925.04.
      (7)   Any individual who violates division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this
section guilty of the illegal trafficking in drugs under R.C. § 2925.03.
      (8)   Any individual who violates R.C. § 3780.20(B) is guilty of illegal
dispensing of drug samples under R.C. § 2925.36 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
      (9)   (a)   An individual who violates division (G) of this section is
guilty of:
            1.   For a first violation, a misdemeanor of the third degree; and
            2.   For a second or subsequent violation, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
         (b)   If a violation of division (G) of this section directly or
indirectly results in great bodily harm or death to any individual, the
individual violating division (G) is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 3780.99)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE REDUCTION
      
152.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
153.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Ohio Building Code
§ 150.01 OHIO BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   O.A.C. 4101:1, the Ohio Building Code, and O.A.C. 4101:2, the Ohio
Mechanical Code, as promulgated by the Ohio Board of Building Standards, shall
apply and be enforced within the village, for all commercial buildings that are
erected, constructed, repaired or altered within the village; except that
O.A.C. 4101:3, the Ohio Plumbing Code, shall be enforced by the local board of
health, the County Health District.
   (B)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after the
earliest period permitted by law following promulgation of the Ohio Building
Code and the Ohio Mechanical Code by the Ohio Board of Building Standards
through the certification process, adoption, and effective date of
certification issued by the Ohio Board of Building Standards.
   (C)   The Village Administrator is hereby authorized and directed to sign
and submit the necessary applications to the Ohio Board of Building Standards
requesting said Board to certify the village for enforcement of the Ohio
Building Code with the condition that the County Building Department exercises
the enforcement authority as necessary in accordance with the Ohio Building
Code within the limits of said village, and enters into an agreement with the
County Building Department for such purpose.
   (D)   The village through its Village Administrator and its Village Fiscal
Officer is hereby authorized and directed to enter into a Building Code
administration agreement with the county for the enforcement of the Ohio
Building Code within the limits of said village, whereby the County Building
Department will exercise all enforcement authority, and accept and approve
plans and specifications, and make inspections necessary within said village in
accordance with the provisions of the Ohio Building Code. A copy of the
Building Code administration agreement is attached hereto to Ord. 21-03 as
Exhibit A.
   (E)   The terms of the Building Code administration agreement shall grant to
the county full authority to do all things necessary to administer and enforce
the Ohio Building Code within the limits of the village, and in consideration
therefore, to allow the county to retain all permit, inspection, and other fees
authorized by the state and the County Commission for such purposes.
   (F)   The Village Council further agrees to hold county harmless for all
claims or causes of action of every kind and nature arising from the acts of
the county, its agents, or employees, or representative in the administration
and enforcement of the Ohio Building Code within the limits of the village
except for the negligent or intentional acts of the county arising from the
acts of its agents, employees or representatives.
(Ord. 21-03, passed 2-9-2021)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD DAMAGE REDUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Statutory authorization
   
151.002   Findings of fact
   
151.003   Statement of purpose
   
151.004   Methods of reducing flood loss
   
151.005   Lands to which these regulations apply
   
151.006   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
151.007   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.008   Interpretation
   
151.009   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
151.010   Definitions
Administration
   
151.020   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator
   
151.021   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
151.022   Floodplain development permits
   
151.023   Application required
   
151.024   Review and approval of a floodplain development permit application
   
151.025   Inspections
   
151.026   Post-construction certifications required
   
151.027   Revoking a floodplain development permit
   
151.028   Exemption from filing a development permit
   
151.029   Map maintenance activities
   
151.030   Data use and flood map interpretation
   
151.031   Substantial damage determinations
Use and Development Standards for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
151.045   Generally
   
151.046   Use regulations
   
151.047   Water and wastewater systems
   
151.048   Subdivisions and large developments
   
151.049   Residential structures
   
151.050   Non-residential structures
   
151.051   Accessory structures
   
151.052   Recreational vehicles
   
151.053   Aboveground gas or liquid storage tanks
   
151.054   Assurance of flood carrying capacity
Appeals and Variances
   
151.065   Appeals Board established
   
151.066   Powers and duties
   
151.067   Appeals
   
151.068   Variances
   
151.069   Procedure at hearings
   
151.070   Appeal to the court
Enforcement
   
151.080   Compliance required
   
151.081   Notice of violation
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   Article XVIII, § 3 of the Ohio Constitution grants municipalities the legal
authority to adopt land use and control measures for promoting the health,
safety and general welfare of its citizens. Therefore, the Village Council does
ordain the following chapter.
(Ord. 15-05, passed 3-31-2015)
§ 151.002 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The village has special flood hazard areas that are subject to periodic
inundation which may result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base.
Additionally, structures that are inadequately elevated, flood proofed or
otherwise protected from flood damage also contribute to the flood loss. In
order to minimize the threat of such damages and to achieve the purposes
hereinafter set forth, these regulations are adopted.
(Ord. 15-05, passed 3-31-2015)
§ 151.003 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of these regulations to promote the public health, safety
and general welfare, and to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, and streets and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the proper use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to protect property and
minimize future flood blight areas;
   (G)   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions;
   (H)   Minimize the impact of development on adjacent properties within and
near flood prone areas;
   (I)   Ensure that the flood storage and conveyance functions of the
floodplain are maintained;
   (J)   Minimize the impact of development on the natural and beneficial
values of the floodplain;
   (K)   Prevent floodplain uses that are either hazardous or environmentally
incompatible; and
   (L)   Meet community participation requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 15-05, passed 3-31-2015)
§ 151.004 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSS.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, these regulations include methods and
provisions for:
   (A)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety
and property due to water hazards or which result in damaging increases in
flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities, which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers which help accommodate or channel flood waters;
   (D)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, excavating and other
development which may increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers, which
will unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards in
other areas.
(Ord. 15-05, passed 3-31-2015)
§ 151.005 LANDS TO WHICH THESE REGULATIONS APPLY.
   These regulations shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within
the jurisdiction of the village as identified in §
151.006, including any additional areas of special flood hazard annexed by the
village.
(Ord. 15-05, passed 3-31-2015)
§ 151.006 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   (A)   For the purposes of these regulations, the following studies and/or
maps are adopted:
      (1)   Flood insurance rate map for the county, and incorporated areas and
flood insurance study for the county and incorporated areas, both effective
April 2, 2015;
      (2)   Other studies and/or maps, which may be relied upon for
establishment of the flood protection, elevation, delineation of the 100-year
floodplain, floodways or delineation of other areas of special flood hazard;
and
      (3)   Any hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analysis authored by a
registered professional engineer in the state which has been approved by the
village as required by §
151.048.
   (B)   Any revisions to the aforementioned maps and/or studies are hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of these regulations. Such maps
and/or studies are on file at the 210 S. Mill Street, Botkins, OH 45306.
(Ord. 15-05, passed 3-31-2015)
§ 151.007 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   These regulations are not intended to repeal any existing ordinances
(resolutions) including subdivision regulations, zoning or building codes. In
the event of a conflict between these regulations and any other ordinance
(resolution), the more restrictive shall be followed. These regulations shall
not impair any deed restriction covenant or easement but the land subject to
such interests shall also be governed by the regulations.
(Ord. 15-05, passed 3-31-2015)
§ 151.008 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of these regulations, all provisions
shall be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes. Where a provision of these regulations may be in conflict with
a state or federal law, such state or federal law shall take precedence over
these regulations.
(Ord. 15-05, passed 3-31-2015)
§ 151.009 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by these regulations is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. These regulations do
not imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. These regulations
shall not create liability on the part of the village, any officer or employee
thereof, or the Federal Emergency Management Agency, for any flood damage that
results from reliance on these regulations or any administrative decision
lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 15-05, passed 3-31-2015)
§ 151.010 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure on the same lot with, and of a nature
customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal structure.
   APPEAL. A request for review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of these regulations or a request for a
variance.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. The base flood may also be referred to as the 1% chance annual
flood or 100-year flood.
   BASE (100-YEAR) FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The water surface elevation of the
base flood in relation to a specified datum, usually the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum of 1929 or the North American Vertical Datum of 1988, and
usually expressed in feet mean sea level (MSL). In Zone AO areas, the BASE
FLOOD ELEVATION is the natural grade elevation plus the depth number (from one
to three feet).
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ENCLOSURE BELOW THE LOWEST FLOOR. See LOWEST FLOOR.
   EXECUTIVE ORDER 11988 (FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT). Issued by President Carter in
1977 and being codified as 3 C.F.R., 1977 Compl., p. 117, this order requires
that no federally assisted activities be conducted in or have the potential to
affect identified special flood hazard areas, unless there is no practicable
alternative.
   FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA). The agency with the overall
responsibility for administering the National Flood Insurance Program.
   FILL. A deposit of earth material placed by artificial means.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). Usually the initial map, produced by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, or U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development, for a community depicting approximate special flood hazard areas.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development has delineated the areas of special flood hazard.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RISK ZONES. Zone designations on FHBMs and FIRMs that
indicate the magnitude of the flood hazard in specific areas of a community.
Following are the zone definitions:
      (1)   ZONE A. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year flood;
base flood elevations are not determined.
      (2)   ZONES A1-30 AND ZONE AE. Special flood hazard areas inundated by
the 100-year flood; base flood elevations are determined.
      (3)   ZONE AO. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood; with flood depths of one to three feet (usually sheet flow on sloping
terrain); average depths are determined.
      (4)   ZONE AH. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood; flood depths of one to three feet (usually areas of ponding); base flood
elevations are determined.
      (5)   ZONE A99. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood to be protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood protection
system under construction; no base flood elevations are determined.
      (6)   ZONE B AND ZONE X (SHADED). Areas of 500-year flood; areas subject
to the 100-year flood with average depths of less than one foot or with
contributing drainage area less than one square mile; and areas protected by
levees from the base flood.
      (7)   ZONE C AND ZONE X (UNSHADED). Areas determined to be outside the
500-year floodplain.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report in which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development has provided flood profiles, floodway boundaries (sometimes shown
on flood boundary and floodway maps) and the water surface elevations of the
base flood.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE). The base flood elevation. In areas where
no base flood elevations exist from any authoritative source, the FLOOD
PROTECTION ELEVATION can be historical flood elevations, or base flood
elevations determined and/or approved by the Floodplain Administrator.
   FLOODWAY.
      (1)   The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that have been reserved in order to pass the base flood discharge. A
FLOODWAY is typically determined through a hydraulic and hydrologic engineering
analysis such that the cumulative increase in the water surface elevation of
the base flood discharge is no more than a designated height. In no case shall
the designated height be more than one foot at any point within the community.
      (2)   The FLOODWAY is an extremely hazardous area, and is usually
characterized by any of the following: moderate to high velocity flood waters,
high potential for debris and projectile impacts, and moderate to high erosion
forces.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for the purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for
the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than
the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such
as wave action, obstructed bridge openings, debris and ice jams, and the
hydrologic effect of urbanization in a watershed.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listings on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on the state’s inventory of historic places
maintained by the Ohio Historic Preservation Office; or
      (4)   Individually listed on the inventory of historic places maintained
by the villages’s historic preservation program, which program is certified by
the Ohio Historic Preservation Office.
   HYDROLOGIC AND HYDRAULIC ENGINEERING ANALYSIS. An analysis performed by a
professional engineer, registered in the state, in accordance with standard
engineering practices as accepted by FEMA, used to determine flood elevations
and/or floodway boundaries.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A letter of map change is an official FEMA
determination, by letter, to amend or revise effective flood insurance rate
maps, flood boundary and floodway maps, and flood insurance studies. LOMCs are
broken down into the following categories:
      (1)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). A formal review and
comment by FEMA as to whether a proposed project complies with the minimum
National Flood Insurance Program floodplain management criteria. A CLOMR does
not amend or revise effective flood insurance rate maps, flood boundary and
floodway maps, or flood insurance studies.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated special flood
hazard area. A LOMA amends the current effective flood insurance rate map and
establishes that a specific property is not located in a special flood hazard
area.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that, usually due to human-made changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations, and planimetric features. One
common type of LOMR, a LOMR-F, is a determination concerning whether a
structure or parcel has been elevated by fill above the base flood elevation
and is, therefore, excluded from the special flood hazard area.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The LOWEST FLOOR of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement) of a structure. This definition excludes an enclosure below the
LOWEST FLOOR which is an unfinished or flood resistant enclosure usable solely
for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area; provided that such enclosure is built in accordance with the
applicable design requirements specified in these regulations for enclosures
below the LOWEST FLOOR.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. MANUFACTURED
HOME does not include a recreational vehicle. For the purposes of these
regulations, a MANUFACTURED HOME includes manufactured homes and mobile homes
as defined in R.C. Chapter 3781.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. As specified in O.A.C. 4781-12-01(K), any tract of
land upon which three or more manufactured homes, used for habitation are
parked, either free of charge or for revenue purposes, and includes any
roadway, building, structure, vehicle, or enclosure used or intended for use as
part of the facilities of the park. A tract of land that is subdivided and the
individual lots are not for rent or rented, but are for sale or sold for the
purpose of installation of manufactured homes on the lots, is not a
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK, even though three or more manufactured homes are parked
thereon, if the roadways are dedicated to the local government authority.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). A federal program enabling property
owners in participating communities to purchase insurance protection against
losses from flooding. This insurance is designed to provide an insurance
alternative to disaster assistance to meet the escalating costs of repairing
damage to buildings and their contents caused by floods. Participation in the
NFIP is based on an agreement between local communities and the federal
government that states if a community will adopt and enforce floodplain
management regulations to reduce future flood risks to all development in
special flood hazard areas; the federal government will make flood insurance
available within the community as a financial protection against flood loss.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the initial effective date the village was converted to the regular
program under the National Flood Insurance Program effective September 29,
1978.
   PERSON. Any individual or group of individuals, corporation, partnership,
association or any other entity, including state and local governments and
agencies. An agency is further defined in the R.C. § 111.15 as any governmental
entity of the state and includes, but is not limited to, any board, department,
division, commission, bureau, society, council, institution, state college or
university, community college district, technical college district, or state
community college. Agency does not include the general assembly, the
controlling board, the adjutant general’s department or any court.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is built on a single chassis, 400
square feet or less, when measured at the largest horizontal projection,
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck, and
designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ARCHITECT. A person registered to engage in the
practice of architecture under the provisions of R.C. §§ 4703.01 to 4703.19.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. A person registered as a professional
engineer under R.C. Chapter 4733.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL SURVEYOR. A person registered as a professional
surveyor under R.C. Chapter 4733.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Land in the floodplain subject to a 1% or greater
chance of flooding in any given year. SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS are designated
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency on flood insurance rate maps, flood
insurance studies, flood boundary and floodway maps, and flood hazard boundary
maps as Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-30 and A99. SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS may also
refer to areas that are flood prone and designated from other federal state or
local sources of data, including, but not limited to, historical flood
information reflecting high water marks, previous flood inundation areas and
flood prone soils associated with a watercourse.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The date the building permit was issued; provided the
actual START OF CONSTRUCTION, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The
ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation
of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of
excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent
construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and
filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor
does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or
the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of a building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, manufactured home, or gas or liquid
storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures, which have incurred substantial
damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include:
      (1)   Any improvement to a structure that is considered new construction;
      (2)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified prior to the application for a development permit by
the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (3)   Any alteration of a historic structure; provided that the
alteration would not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the standards of these regulations
consistent with the variance conditions herein.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with these regulations.
(Ord. 15-05, passed 3-31-2015)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.020 DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Village Administrator is hereby appointed to administer and implement
these regulations and is referred to herein as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 15-05, passed 3-31-2015)
§ 151.021 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to:
   (A)   Evaluate applications for permits to develop in special flood hazard
areas;
   (B)   Interpret floodplain boundaries and provide flood hazard and flood
protection elevation information;
   (C)   Issue permits to develop in special flood hazard areas when the
provisions of these regulations have been met or refuse to issue the same in
the event of non-compliance;
   (D)   Inspect buildings and lands to determine whether any violations of
these regulations have been committed;
   (E)   Make and permanently keep all records for public inspection necessary
for the administration of these regulations, including flood insurance rate
maps, letters of map amendment and revision, records of issuance and denial of
permits to develop in special flood hazard areas, determinations of whether
development is in or out of special flood hazard areas for the purpose of
issuing floodplain development permits, elevation certificates, variances, and
records of enforcement actions taken for violations of these regulations;
   (F)   Enforce the provisions of these regulations;
   (G)   Provide information, testimony or other evidence as needed during
variance hearings;
   (H)   Coordinate map maintenance activities and FEMA follow-up; and
   (I)   Conduct substantial damage determinations to determine whether
existing structures, damaged from any source and in special flood hazard areas
identified by FEMA, must meet the development standards of these regulations.
(Ord. 15-05, passed 3-31-2015)
§ 151.022 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to begin construction or other
development activity, including but not limited to, filling; grading;
construction; alteration, remodeling or expanding any structure; or alteration
of any watercourse wholly within, partially within or in contact with any
identified special flood hazard area, as established in §
151.006, until a floodplain development permit is obtained from the Floodplain
Administrator. Such floodplain development permit shall show that the proposed
development activity is in conformity with the provisions of these regulations.
No such permit shall be issued by the Floodplain Administrator until the
requirements of these regulations have been met.
(Ord. 15-05, passed 3-31-2015) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.023 APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   An application for a floodplain development permit shall be required for all
development activities located wholly within, partially within or in contact
with an identified special flood hazard area. Such application shall be made by
the owner of the property or his or her authorized agent, herein referred to as
the applicant, prior to the actual commencement of such construction on a form
furnished for that purpose. Where it is unclear whether a development site is
in a special flood hazard area, the Floodplain Administrator may require an
application for a floodplain development permit to determine the development’s
location. Such applications shall include, but not be limited to:
   (A)   Site plans drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions and
topography of the area in question; and the location of existing or proposed
structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities and the location of
the foregoing;
   (B)   Elevation of the existing, natural ground where structures are
proposed;
   (C)   Elevation of the lowest floor, including basement, of all proposed
structures;
   (D)   Such other material and information as may be requested by the
Floodplain Administrator to determine conformance with and provide enforcement
of these regulations;
   (E)   Technical analyses conducted by the appropriate design professional
registered in the state and submitted with an application for a floodplain
development permit when applicable:
      (1)   Flood proofing certification for non-residential flood proofed
structure as required in §
151.050;
      (2)   Certification that fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor of a
structure not meeting the design requirements of §
151.049(E) are designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces;
      (3)   Description of any watercourse alteration or relocation that the
flood carrying capacity of the watercourse will not be diminished, and
maintenance assurances as required in §
151.054(C);
      (4)   A hydrologic and hydraulic analysis demonstrating that the
cumulative effect of proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood by more than one foot in special flood hazard areas
where the Federal Emergency Management Agency has provided base flood
elevations but no floodway as required by §
151.054(B);
      (5)   A hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analysis showing impact of
any development on flood heights in an identified floodway as required by §
151.054(A); and
      (6)   Generation of base flood elevation(s) for subdivision and large-
scale developments as required by §
151.048.
   (F)   A floodplain development permit application fee set by the schedule of
fees adopted by the village.
(Ord. 15-05, passed 3-31-2015)
§ 151.024 REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF A FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT
APPLICATION.
   (A)   Review.
      (1)   After receipt of a complete application, the Floodplain
Administrator shall review the application to ensure that the standards of
these regulations have been met. No floodplain development permit application
shall be reviewed until all information required in §
151.023 has been received by the Floodplain Administrator.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator shall review all floodplain
development permit applications to assure that all necessary permits have been
received from those federal, state or local governmental agencies from which
prior approval is required. The applicant shall be responsible for obtaining
such permits as required including permits issued by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers under § 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1 et
seq. and § 404 of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1344, and the Ohio
Environmental Protection Agency under § 401 of the Clean Water Act, being 33
U.S.C. § 1343.
   (B)   Approval. Within 30 days after the receipt of a complete application,
the Floodplain Administrator shall either approve or disapprove the
application. If an application is approved, a floodplain development permit
shall be issued. All floodplain development permits shall be conditional upon
the commencement of work within one year. A floodplain development permit shall
expire one year after issuance unless the permitted activity has been
substantially begun and is thereafter pursued to completion.
(Ord. 15-05, passed 3-31-2015)
§ 151.025 INSPECTIONS.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall make periodic inspections at appropriate
times throughout the period of construction in order to monitor compliance with
permit conditions.
(Ord. 15-05, passed 3-31-2015)
§ 151.026 POST-CONSTRUCTION CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   The following as-built certifications are required after a floodplain
development permit has been issued:
   (A)   For new or substantially improved residential structures, or non-
residential structures that have been elevated, the applicant shall have a
Federal Emergency Management Agency Elevation Certificate completed by a
registered surveyor to record as-built elevation data. For elevated structures
in Zone A and Zone AO areas without a base flood elevation, the elevation
certificate may be completed by the property owner or owner’s representative;
and
   (B)   For all development activities subject to the standards of §
151.029(A).
(Ord. 15-05, passed 3-31-2015)
§ 151.027 REVOKING A FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be revocable, if among other things,
the actual development activity does not conform to the terms of the
application and permit granted thereon. In the event of the revocation of a
permit, an appeal may be taken to the Appeals Board in accordance with §§
151.065 through
151.070.
(Ord. 15-05, passed 3-31-2015)
§ 151.028 EXEMPTION FROM FILING A DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   An application for a floodplain development permit shall not be
required for:
      (1)   Maintenance work, such as roofing, painting and basement sealing,
or for small non-structural development activities (except for filling and
grading) valued at less than $5,000;
      (2)   Development activities in an existing or proposed manufactured home
park that are under the authority of the Ohio Department of Health and subject
to the flood damage reduction provisions of the O.A.C. Chapter 3701;
      (3)   Major utility facilities permitted by the Ohio Power Siting Board
under R.C. Chapter 4906;
      (4)   Hazardous waste disposal facilities permitted by the Hazardous
Waste Siting Board under R.C. Chapter 3734; and
      (5)   Development activities undertaken by a federal agency and which are
subject to Federal Executive Order 11988 - Floodplain Management, being 3
C.F.R., 1977 Comp., p. 117.
   (B)   Any proposed action exempt from filing for a floodplain development
permit is also exempt from the standards of these regulations.
(Ord. 15-05, passed 3-31-2015)
§ 151.029 MAP MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES.
   To meet National Flood Insurance Program minimum requirements to have flood
data reviewed and approved by FEMA, and to ensure that village’s flood maps,
studies and other data identified in §
151.006 accurately represent flooding conditions so appropriate floodplain
management criteria are based on current data, the following map maintenance
activities are identified.
   (A)   Requirement to submit new technical data.
      (1)   For all development proposals that impact floodway delineations or
base flood elevations, the community shall ensure that technical data
reflecting such changes be submitted to FEMA within six months of the date such
information becomes available. These development proposals include:
         (a)   Floodway encroachments that increase or decrease base flood
elevations or alter floodway boundaries;
         (b)   Fill sites to be used for the placement of proposed structures
where the applicant desires to remove the site from the special flood hazard
area;
         (c)   Alteration of watercourses that result in a relocation or
elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts; and
         (d)   Subdivision or large scale development proposals requiring the
establishment of base flood elevations in accordance with §
151.048.
      (2)   It is the responsibility of the applicant to have technical data,
required in accordance with this division (A), prepared in a format required
for a conditional letter of map revision or letter of map revision, and
submitted to FEMA. Submittal and processing fees for these map revisions shall
be the responsibility of the applicant.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall require a conditional letter of
map revision prior to the issuance of a floodplain development permit for:
         (a)   Proposed floodway encroachments that increase the base flood
elevation; and
         (b)   Proposed development which increases the base flood elevation by
more than one foot in areas where FEMA has provided base flood elevations but
no floodway.
      (4)   Floodplain development permits issued by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be conditioned upon the applicant obtaining a letter of map
revision from FEMA for any development proposal subject to division (A)(1) of
this section.
   (B)   Right to submit new technical data. The Floodplain Administrator may
request changes to any of the information shown on an effective map that does
not impact floodplain or floodway delineations or base flood elevations, such
as labeling or planimetric details. Such a submission shall include appropriate
supporting documentation made in writing by the Village Administrator, and may
be submitted at any time.
   (C)   Annexation/detachment. Upon occurrence, the Floodplain Administrator
shall notify FEMA in writing whenever the boundaries of the village have been
modified by annexation or the community has assumed authority over an area, or
no longer has authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations
for a particular area. In order that the village’s flood insurance rate map
accurately represent the village boundaries, include within such notification a
copy of a map of the village suitable for reproduction, clearly showing the new
corporate limits or the new area for which the village has assumed or
relinquished floodplain management regulatory authority.
(Ord. 15-05, passed 3-31-2015)
§ 151.030 DATA USE AND FLOOD MAP INTERPRETATION.
   The following guidelines shall apply to the use and interpretation of maps
and other data showing areas of special flood hazard.
   (A)   In areas where FEMA has not identified special flood hazard areas, or
in FEMA identified special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation and
floodway data have not been identified, the Floodplain Administrator shall
review and reasonably utilize any other flood hazard data available from a
federal, state or other source.
   (B)   Base flood elevations and floodway boundaries produced on FEMA flood
maps and studies shall take precedence over base flood elevations and floodway
boundaries by any other source that reflect a reduced floodway width and/or
lower base flood elevations. Other sources of data, showing increased base
flood elevations and/or larger floodway areas than are shown on FEMA flood maps
and studies, shall be reasonably used by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   When preliminary flood insurance rate maps and/or flood insurance
study have been provided by FEMA.
      (1)   Upon the issuance of a letter of final determination by the FEMA,
the preliminary flood hazard data shall be used and replace all previously
existing flood hazard data provided from FEMA for the purposes of administering
these regulations.
      (2)   Prior to the issuance of a letter of final determination by FEMA,
the use of preliminary flood hazard data shall only be required where no base
flood elevations and/or floodway areas exist or where the preliminary base
flood elevations or floodway area exceed the base flood elevations and/or
floodway widths in existing flood hazard data provided from FEMA. Such
preliminary data may be subject to change and/or appeal to FEMA.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator shall make interpretations, where needed,
as to the exact location of the flood boundaries and areas of special flood
hazard. A person contesting the determination of the location of the boundary
shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as
provided in §§
151.065 through
151.070.
   (E)   Where a map boundary showing an area of special flood hazard and field
elevations disagree, the base flood elevations or flood protection elevations
(as found on an elevation profile, floodway data table, established high water
marks and the like) shall prevail.
(Ord. 15-05, passed 3-31-2015)
§ 151.031 SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE DETERMINATIONS.
   (A)   Damages to structures may result from a variety of causes including
flood, tornado, wind, heavy snow, fire and the like. After such a damage event,
the Floodplain Administrator shall:
      (1)   Determine whether damaged structures are located in special flood
hazard areas;
      (2)   Conduct substantial damage determinations for damaged structures
located in special flood hazard areas; and
      (3)   Make reasonable attempt to notify owners of substantially damaged
structures of the need to obtain a floodplain development permit prior to
repair, rehabilitation or reconstruction.
   (B)   Additionally, the Floodplain Administrator may implement other
measures to assist with the substantial damage determination and subsequent
repair process. These measures include issuing press releases, public service
announcements and other public information materials related to the floodplain
development permits and repair of damaged structures; coordinating with other
federal, state and local agencies to assist with substantial damage
determinations; providing owners of damaged structures materials and other
information related to the proper repair of damaged structures in special flood
hazard areas; and assist owners of substantially damaged structures with
increased cost of compliance insurance claims.
(Ord. 15-05, passed 3-31-2015)
USE AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 151.045 GENERALLY.
   The following use and development standards in this subchapter apply to
development wholly within, partially within or in contact with any special
flood hazard area as established in §§
151.006 or
151.030(A).
(Ord. 15-05, passed 3-31-2015)
§ 151.046 USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Permitted uses. All uses not otherwise prohibited in this section or
any other applicable land use regulation adopted by the village are allowed;
provided they meet the provisions of these regulations.
   (B)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   Private water supply systems in all special flood hazard areas
identified by FEMA, permitted under R.C. Chapter 3701.
      (2)   Infectious waste treatment facilities in all special flood hazard
areas, permitted under R.C. Chapter 3734.
(Ord. 15-05, passed 3-31-2015)
§ 151.047 WATER AND WASTEWATER SYSTEMS.
   The following standards apply to all water supply, sanitary sewage and waste
disposal systems not otherwise regulated by the Ohio Revised Code:
   (A)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems;
   (B)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and
   (C)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 15-05, passed 3-31-2015)
§ 151.048 SUBDIVISIONS AND LARGE DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage and are subject to all applicable standards in these
regulations.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities,
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage.
   (D)   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data
are not available, the applicant shall provide a hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analysis that generates base flood elevations for all subdivision
proposals and other proposed developments containing at least 50 lots or five
acres, whichever is less.
   (E)   The applicant shall meet the requirement to submit technical data to
FEMA in §
151.029(A)(1)(d) when a hydrologic and hydraulic analysis is completed that
generates base flood elevations as required by division (D) of this section.
(Ord. 15-05, passed 3-31-2015)
§ 151.049 RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy. Where a
structure, including its foundation members, is elevated on fill to or above
the base flood elevation, the requirements for anchoring and construction
materials resistant to flood damage are satisfied.
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with methods and materials resistant to flood damage.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or elevated so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure, including manufactured homes, shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated to or above the flood protection elevation. In Zone AO areas
with no elevations specified, the structure shall have the lowest floor,
including basement, elevated at least two feet above the highest adjacent
natural grade.
   (E)   New construction and substantial improvements, including manufactured
homes, that do not have basements and that are elevated to the flood protection
elevation using pilings, columns, posts or solid foundation perimeter walls
with openings sufficient to allow unimpeded movement of flood waters may have
an enclosure below the lowest floor provided the enclosure meets the following
standards:
      (1)   Be used only for the parking of vehicles, building access or
storage;
      (2)   Be designed and certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls
by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters; or
      (3)   Have a minimum of two openings on different walls having a total
net area not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area,
and the bottom of all such openings being no higher than one foot above grade.
The openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other coverings or
devices; provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.
   (F)   Manufactured homes shall be affixed to a permanent foundation and
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors.
   (G)   Repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon a determination
that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s
continued designation as a historic structure and is the minimum necessary to
preserve the historic character and design of the structure, shall be exempt
from the development standards of this section.
   (H)   In AO Zones, new construction and substantial improvement shall have
adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around
and away from the structure.
(Ord. 15-05, passed 3-31-2015)
§ 151.050 NON-RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or other non-residential structure shall meet the requirements of §
151.049(A) through (C) and (E) through (G).
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or other non-residential structure shall either have the lowest
floor, including basement, elevated to or above the level of the flood
protection elevation; or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall meet all of the following standards:
      (1)   Be dry flood proofed so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water to the level of the flood
protection elevation;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
      (3)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect,
through the use of a Federal Emergency Management Agency flood proofing
certificate, that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with
divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) of this section.
   (C)   In Zone AO areas with no elevations specified, the structure shall
have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated at least two feet above the
highest adjacent natural grade.
(Ord. 15-05, passed 3-31-2015)
§ 151.051 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   Relief to the elevation or dry flood proofing standards may be granted for
accessory structures containing no more than 600 square feet. Such structures
must meet the following standards:
   (A)   They shall not be used for human habitation;
   (B)   They shall be constructed of flood resistant materials;
   (C)   They shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
   (D)   They shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
   (E)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall be
elevated or flood proofed to or above the level of the flood protection
elevation; and
   (F)   They shall meet the opening requirements of §
151.049(E)(3).
(Ord. 15-05, passed 3-31-2015) Penalty, see 151.999
§ 151.052 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   Recreational vehicles must meet at least one of the following standards:
   (A)   They shall not be located on sites in special flood hazard areas for
more than 180 days;
   (B)   They must be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
   (C)   They must meet all standards of §
151.049.
(Ord. 15-05, passed 3-31-2015)
§ 151.053 ABOVEGROUND GAS OR LIQUID STORAGE TANKS.
   All aboveground gas or liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to prevent
flotation or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic
loads.
(Ord. 15-05, passed 3-31-2015)
§ 151.054 ASSURANCE OF FLOOD CARRYING CAPACITY.
   Pursuant to the purpose and methods of reducing flood damage stated in these
regulations, the following additional standards are adopted to assure that the
reduction of the flood carrying capacity of watercourses is minimized.
   (A)   Development in floodways.
      (1)   In floodway areas, development shall cause no increase in flood
levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge. Prior to issuance of
a floodplain development permit, the applicant must submit a hydrologic and
hydraulic analysis, conducted by a registered professional engineer,
demonstrating that the proposed development would not result in any increase in
the base flood elevation; or
      (2)   Development in floodway areas causing increases in the base flood
elevation may be permitted; provided all of the following are completed by the
applicant:
         (a)   Meet the requirements to submit technical data in §
151.029(A);
         (b)   An evaluation of alternatives, which would not result in
increased base flood elevations and an explanation why these alternatives are
not feasible;
         (c)   Certification that no structures are located in areas that would
be impacted by the increased base flood elevation;
         (d)   Documentation of individual legal notices to all impacted
property owners within and outside the community, explaining the impact of the
proposed action on their property; and
         (e)   Concurrence of the Village Administrator and the chief executive
officer of any other communities impacted by the proposed actions.
   (B)   Development in riverine areas with base flood elevations but no
floodways.
      (1)   In riverine special flood hazard areas identified by FEMA where
base flood elevation data are provided but no floodways have been designated,
the cumulative effect of any proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, shall not increase the base flood
elevation more than one foot at any point. Prior to issuance of a floodplain
development permit, the applicant must submit a hydrologic and hydraulic
analysis, conducted by a registered professional engineer, demonstrating that
this standard has been met.
      (2)   Development in riverine special flood hazard areas identified by
FEMA where base flood elevation data are provided but no floodways have been
designated causing more than one foot increase in the base flood elevation may
be permitted; provided all of the following are completed by the applicant:
         (a)   An evaluation of alternatives which would result in an increase
of one foot or less of the base flood elevation and an explanation why these
alternatives are not feasible; and
         (b)   Divisions (A)(2)(a) and (A)(2)(c) through (A)(2)(e).
   (C)   Alterations of a watercourse. For the purpose of these regulations, a
watercourse is altered when any change occurs within its banks. The extent of
the banks shall be established by a field determination of the bankfull stage.
The field determination of bankfull stage shall be based on methods presented
in Chapter 7 of the USDA Forest Service General Technical Report RM-245, Stream
Channel Reference Sites: An Illustrated Guide to Field Technique or other
applicable publication available from a federal, state or other authoritative
source. For all proposed developments that alter a watercourse, the following
standards apply.
      (1)   The bankfull flood carrying capacity of the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse shall not be diminished. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit, the applicant must submit a description of the
extent to which any watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of the
proposed development, and certification by a registered professional engineer
that the bankfull flood carrying capacity of the watercourse will not be
diminished.
      (2)   Adjacent communities, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the Ohio
Department of Natural Resources, Division of Water, must be notified prior to
any alteration or relocation of a watercourse. Evidence of such notification
must be submitted to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      (3)   The applicant shall be responsible for providing the necessary
maintenance for the altered or relocated portion of said watercourse so that
the flood carrying capacity will not be diminished. The Floodplain
Administrator may require the permit holder to enter into an agreement with the
village specifying the maintenance responsibilities. If an agreement is
required, it shall be made a condition of the floodplain development permit.
      (4)   The applicant shall meet the requirements to submit technical data
in §
151.029(A)(1)(c) when an alteration of a watercourse results in the relocation
or elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts.
(Ord. 15-05, passed 3-31-2015)
APPEALS AND VARIANCES
§ 151.065 APPEALS BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals is hereby appointed to serve as the
Appeals Board for these regulations as established by § ____.
   (B)   Records of the Appeals Board shall be kept and filed in 210 S. Mill
Street, Botkins, OH 45306.
(Ord. 15-05, passed 3-31-2015)
§ 151.066 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Appeals Board shall hear and decide appeals where it is alleged
there is an error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by
the Floodplain Administrator in the administration or enforcement of these
regulations.
   (B)   Authorize variances in accordance with §
151.068.
(Ord. 15-05, passed 3-31-2015)
§ 151.067 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person affected by any notice and order, or other official action
of the Floodplain Administrator may request and shall be granted a hearing on
the matter before the Appeals Board provided that such person shall file,
within 30 days of the date of such notice and order, or other official action,
a brief statement of the grounds for such hearing or for the mitigation of any
item appearing on any order of the Floodplain Administrator’s decision. Such
appeal shall be in writing, signed by the applicant and be filed with the
Floodplain Administrator. Upon receipt of the appeal, the Floodplain
Administrator shall transmit said notice and all pertinent information on which
the Floodplain Administrator’s decision was made to the Appeals Board.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the notice of appeal, the Appeals Board shall fix a
reasonable time for the appeal, give notice in writing to parties in interest
and decide the appeal within a reasonable time after it is submitted.
(Ord. 15-05, passed 3-31-2015)
§ 151.068 VARIANCES.
   Any person believing that the use and development standards of these
regulations would result in unnecessary hardship may file an application for a
variance. The Appeals Board shall have the power to authorize, in specific
cases, such variances from the standards of these regulations, not inconsistent
with federal regulations, as will not be contrary to the public interest where,
owning to special conditions of the lot or parcel, a literal enforcement of the
provisions of these regulations would result in unnecessary hardship.
   (A)   Application for a variance.
      (1)   Any owner, or agent thereof, of property for which a variance is
sought shall make an application for a variance by filing it with the
Floodplain Administrator, who upon receipt of the variance shall transmit it to
the Appeals Board.
      (2)   Such application at a minimum shall contain the following
information: name, address and telephone number of the applicant; legal
description of the property; parcel map; description of the existing use;
description of the proposed use; location of the floodplain; description of the
variance sought; and reason for the variance request.
      (3)   All applications for a variance must be accompanied by a variance
application fee set by the schedule of fees adopted by the village.
   (B)   Notice for public hearing. The Appeals Board shall schedule and hold a
public hearing within 30 days after the receipt of an application for a
variance from the Floodplain Administrator. Prior to the hearing, a notice of
such hearing shall be given in one or more newspapers of general circulation in
the community at least ten days before the date of the hearing.
   (C)   Public hearing.
      (1)   At such hearing, the applicant shall present such statements and
evidence as the Appeals Board requires. In considering such variance
applications, the Appeals Board shall consider and make findings of fact on all
evaluations, all relevant factors and standards specified in other sections of
these regulations, and the following factors:
         (a)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         (b)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         (c)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         (d)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         (e)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
that are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
         (f)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         (g)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         (h)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
         (i)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         (j)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
         (k)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship due to the physical characteristics of the property.
Increased cost or inconvenience of meeting the requirements of these
regulations does not constitute an exceptional hardship to the applicant;
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights beyond that which is allowed in these regulations;
additional threats to public safety; and extraordinary public expense,
nuisances, fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict with existing
local laws;
         (d)   A determination that the structure or other development is
protected by methods to minimize flood damages; and
         (e)   A determination that the variance is the minimum necessary,
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
      (3)   Upon consideration of the above factors and the purposes of these
regulations, the Appeals Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances, as it deems necessary to further the purposes of these regulations.
   (D)   Other conditions for variances.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (2)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing items in divisions (C)(1) to (C)(11) of
this section have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond one-
half acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases.
      (3)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation and the cost of flood insurance will
be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest floor
elevation.
(Ord. 15-05, passed 3-31-2015)
§ 151.069 PROCEDURE AT HEARINGS.
   (A)   All testimony shall be given under oath.
   (B)   A complete record of the proceedings shall be kept, except
confidential deliberations of the Board, but including all documents presented
and a verbatim record of the testimony of all witnesses.
   (C)   The applicant shall proceed first to present evidence and testimony in
support of the appeal or variance.
   (D)   The administrator may present evidence or testimony in opposition to
the appeal or variance.
   (E)   All witnesses shall be subject to cross-examination by the adverse
party or their counsel.
   (F)   Evidence that is not admitted may be proffered and shall become part
of the record for appeal.
   (G)   The Board shall issue subpoenas upon written request for the
attendance of witnesses. A reasonable deposit to cover the cost of issuance and
service shall be collected in advance.
   (H)   The Board shall prepare conclusions of fact supporting its decision.
The decision may be announced at the conclusion of the hearing and thereafter
issued in writing or the decision may be issued in writing within a reasonable
time after the hearing.
(Ord. 15-05, passed 3-31-2015)
§ 151.070 APPEAL TO THE COURT.
   Those aggrieved by the decision of the Appeals Board may appeal such
decision to the Court of Common Pleas, as provided in R.C. Chapter 2506.
(Ord. 15-05, passed 3-31-2015)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.080 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, erected, constructed,
reconstructed, repaired, extended, converted, enlarged or altered without full
compliance with the terms of these regulations and all other applicable
regulations which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of these regulations,
unless specifically exempted from filing for a development permit as stated in
§
151.028.
   (B)   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit shall be a violation
of these regulations and shall be punishable in accordance with §
151.999.
   (C)   Floodplain development permits issued on the basis of plans and
applications approved by the Floodplain Administrator authorize only the use,
and arrangement, set forth in such approved plans and applications or
amendments thereto. Use, arrangement or construction contrary to that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of these regulations and punishable in
accordance with §
151.999.
(Ord. 15-05, passed 3-31-2015) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.081 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Whenever the Floodplain Administrator determines that there has been a
violation of any provision of these regulations, he or she shall give notice of
such violation to the person responsible therefore and order compliance with
these regulations as hereinafter provided. Such notice and order shall:
   (A)   Be put in writing on an appropriate form;
   (B)   Include a list of violations, referring to the section or sections of
these regulations that have been violated, and order remedial action, which, if
taken, will effect compliance with the provisions of these regulations;
   (C)   Specify a reasonable time for performance;
   (D)   Advise the owner, operator or occupant of the right to appeal; and
   (E)   Be served on the owner, occupant or agent in person. However, this
notice and order shall be deemed to be properly served upon the owner, occupant
or agent if a copy thereof is sent by registered or certified mail to the
person’s last known mailing address, residence or place of business, and/or a
copy is posted in a conspicuous place in or on the dwelling affected.
(Ord. 15-05, passed 3-31-2015)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of this chapter or failure to comply with any of its
requirements shall be deemed a strict liability offense, and shall constitute
an unclassified misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements may be punished as follows: a fine not
exceeding $500; a term of imprisonment not exceeding six months; or any
combination of the two.
   (B)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on
which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 15-05, passed 3-31-2015)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Title
   
152.002   Intent
   
152.003   Jurisdiction and effective date
   
152.004   General regulations
   
152.005   Conformity to village plans and Zoning Code
   
152.006   Relation of the subdivision to the land
   
152.007   Administration
   
152.008   Saving clause
   
152.009   Relation to other laws
   
152.010   Interpretation and separability
   
152.011   Amendment
   
152.012   Definitions
Minor Subdivision
   
152.025   Intent
   
152.026   Minor subdivision conditions
   
152.027   Submission for approval of minor subdivision
   
152.028   Minor subdivision plat contents
   
152.029   Supplementary information
   
152.030   Approval of a minor subdivision
Preliminary Plat
   
152.040   Intent
   
152.041   Submission for preliminary plat approval
   
152.042   Preliminary plat form
   
152.043   Preliminary plat contents
   
152.044   Approval of preliminary plat
   
152.045   Preliminary plat approval period
   
152.046   Preliminary plat checklist
Final Plat
   
152.060   Final plat required
   
152.061   Submission for approval of final plat
   
152.062   Final plat form
   
152.063   Final plat contents
   
152.064   Supplementary information
   
152.065   Approval of final plat
   
152.066   Recording of final plat
   
152.067   Final plat checklist
Assurance for Completion and Maintenance of Improvements
   
152.080   Improvements and performance surety
   
152.081   Inspection of improvements
   
152.082   Maintenance of improvements and maintenance surety
   
152.083   Deferral or waiver of required improvements
   
152.084   Procedure in case of failure to complete improvement
   
152.085   Procedure in case of default
   
152.086   Issuance of building/zoning permits
Requirements for Construction Improvements and Design
   
152.100   General statement
   
152.101   Conformity to development plans and zoning
   
152.102   Street improvements
   
152.103   Street signs and street names
   
152.104   Special street types
   
152.105   Streets for commercial subdivisions
   
152.106   Streets for industrial subdivisions
   
152.107   Easements
   
152.108   Sidewalks and grass
   
152.109   Blocks
   
152.110   Lots
   
152.111   Survey monuments
   
152.112   Street and walkway lighting
   
152.113   Water supply improvements
   
152.114   Sanitary sewer improvements
   
152.115   Drainage improvements
   
152.116   Culverts and bridges
   
152.117   Electric, gas, cable television and telephone improvements
   
152.118   Over-sized, over-depth and off-site improvements
   
152.119   Cost of over-sized and over-depth improvements
   
152.120   Extension to boundaries
   
152.121   Off-site extensions
   
152.122   Non-annexed subdivisions
   
152.123   Record drawings
Miscellaneous Provisions
   
152.135   Recording of plat
   
152.136   Revision of plat after approval   
   
152.137   Sale of land within subdivisions
   
152.138   Schedule of fees
   
152.139   Variances
   
152.140   Appeal
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 TITLE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be known as the subdivision regulations
of the village and shall be referred to hereinafter as these regulations.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.002 INTENT.
   These regulations are adopted to secure and provide for the following:
   (A)   To establish the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public
health, public safety and general welfare of the residents of the village;
   (B)   The proper arrangement of streets or highways in relation to existing
or planned streets or highways or to the official Comprehensive Development
Plan;
   (C)   Adequate and convenient open spaces for vehicular and pedestrian
traffic, utilities, access of firefighting apparatus and recreation;
   (D)   The establishment of standards for the construction of any and all
improvements as herein required;
   (E)   Conformance with the existing Zoning Code;
   (F)   To facilitate the orderly and efficient layout and the appropriate use
of the land;
   (G)   To provide for the accurate surveying of land, preparing and recording
of plats, and the equitable handling of all subdivision plats by providing
uniform procedures and standards for observance by both the approving authority
and subdividers;
   (H)   Protection against floodplain encroachment and possible future flood
damage; and
   (I)   To guide public and private policy and action in order to provide
adequate and efficient transportation, water, sewerage and other public
requirements and facilities.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.003 JURISDICTION AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   Jurisdiction. These regulations shall apply to all subdivisions of
land within the corporation limits of the village.
   (B)   Relation to other laws. These regulations shall supplement any and all
laws of the state, ordinances of the village or any other regulations relating
to the purpose and scope of these regulations. Whenever the requirements of
these regulations are at variance with requirements of any other laws,
ordinances or regulations, the most restrictive or that imposing the higher
standards shall govern, except as provided in §
152.004(B).
   (C)   Effective date. These regulations shall take effect at the earliest
time prescribed by law following their adoption by the Village Council.
   (D)   Pre-existing subdivisions. Any subdivision that has received final
approval by the Village Council prior to the adoption of these regulations
shall be considered an approved final subdivision. If the approved final plat
of a proposed subdivision is not recorded within 90 days after the date of the
Planning Commission’s approval, said approval shall be termed null and void. In
the event a plat is considered invalid, said plat shall then be resubmitted as
a preliminary plat and shall meet all requirements of these regulations.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.004 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Floodplain. No subdivision shall be located in an area subject to
periodic flooding or high water as determined by the Village Administrator. For
those areas located within the floodplain of the Great Miami River, further
determination of the actual area subject to periodic flooding or high water may
be required from the Miami Conservancy District. If the subdivision is located
in an area having poor drainage or other adverse physical characteristics, the
Planning Commission may approve the subdivision provided the subdivider agrees
to perform such improvements as will render the area safe for the intended use.
   (B)   Planned unit development. Following the official adoption of these
regulations, no land shall be subdivided without complying with the provisions
of these regulations with the exception of certain modifications allowed for
planned unit developments. Building setbacks, yard area requirements and
pedestrian walkways may be modified by the Planning Commission to the extent
that such planned unit development will contribute to the orderly, efficient
and economical development of the village.
   (C)   Sale of land. No lot, tract or parcel of land within any subdivision
shall be offered for sale, nor shall any sale be completed until such
subdivision plats have been reviewed and officially approved by the Planning
Commission and recorded by the County Recorder’s Office.
   (D)   Improvements. No improvements, such as sidewalks, water supply,
wastewater facilities, stormwater drainage, gas and electric service, lighting,
paving, or surfacing of any street, shall be made within any subdivision by any
subdivider until the preliminary plat, final plat, and construction drawings
for the subdivision have been properly reviewed and approved by the Enforcement
Officer and the Village Administrator, and officially approved by the Planning
Commission, and until all required contracts and performance surety for public
improvements have been posted and accepted.
   (E)   Grading. Preliminary or rough grading may be permitted following
review and approval of the preliminary plat in advance of the approval of the
final plat and construction drawings; provided that such grading does not
impair or alter existing drainage or create an adverse impact on adjacent
property.
   (F)   Frontage. No lot shall be created through the subdivision of land that
does not have frontage on a public thoroughfare or street that is regularly
maintained.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.005 CONFORMITY TO VILLAGE PLANS AND ZONING CODE.
   The arrangement, character, width and location of all arterial and collector
thoroughfares or extensions thereof shall conform to the requirements of the
village. Thoroughfares shall conform to the recommendations of the Planning
Commission based upon these regulations. In addition, no final plat shall be
approved if in conflict with an existing zoning ordinance.
   (A)   Plans. All proposed subdivisions shall be developed in accordance with
the principles, objectives, policies and proposals specified in the County
Official Thoroughfare Plan, the Village Official Thoroughfare Plan and the
Village Land Use Plan, where applicable.
   (B)   Zoning. All proposed subdivisions shall meet the requirements set
forth in the Zoning Code adopted by the village, as well as the provisions of
these regulations.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.006 RELATION OF THE SUBDIVISION TO THE LAND.
   (A)   Safety. All proposed subdivisions shall be located and designed as to
be safe for building purposes without danger to health or peril from flood,
fire or other similar menace.
   (B)   Existing features. Existing physical or cultural features enhancing
the value of the proposed subdivision such as trees, watercourses and falls,
historic sites, and other irreplaceable assets shall be preserved whenever
possible through careful design.
   (C)   Owner restrictions. The owner/owners may place further restrictions on
any portion of the land to be subdivided which are greater than those required
by these regulations and the Zoning Code; provided that all such restrictions
are indicated on the subdivision plat and are officially recorded.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.007 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Village Council shall perform the following functions:
      (1)   Appoint an Enforcement Officer (Zoning Enforcement Officer) who
shall be responsible for the administrative enforcement of these regulations.
To this end, the Enforcement Officer shall work closely with the Village
Administrator’s Office and the Planning Commission;
      (2)   Approve the Mayor’s appointment of one member of the Village
Council, three residents to the Planning Commission and five residents to the
Board of Zoning Appeals;
      (3)   Enter into a contract, called a subdivider’s agreement, with the
subdivider or developer, specifying what public improvements are to be carried
out and providing the legal basis for the posting of the performance surety;
      (4)   Accept required public improvements which have been inspected and
approved by the Village Administrator and which are in accordance with the
County Official Thoroughfare Plan, and the Village Official Thoroughfare Plan;
      (5)   Release the performance surety of the subdivider or developer once
the required public improvements have been accepted and maintenance surety has
been provided; and
      (6)   Amend these regulations following receipt of a formal
recommendation from the Planning Commission and following a public hearing with
the appropriate public notice.
   (B)   The Enforcement Officer (Zoning Enforcement Officer) shall have the
responsibility of acting on behalf of the Planning Commission in making an
initial determination that a particular subdivider has or has not complied with
the requirements of these regulations and shall perform the following
functions:
      (1)   Establish that all the requirements of these regulations have been
fully met by the subdivider;
      (2)   Determine instances of non-compliance with these regulations on the
basis of an interpretation of these regulations and the review of comments of
all the appropriate officials to whom copies of the preliminary plat were sent;
      (3)   Make recommendations to the Planning Commission for action on all
preliminary and final plats, certifying those final plats that are in full
compliance with the provisions of these regulations;
      (4)   Issue building/zoning permits to applicants whose final plat and
construction drawings have received the approval of the Village Administrator
and the Planning Commission;
      (5)   Maintain permanent and current records of these regulations
including amendments thereto; and
      (6)   Receive, review, file, forward, and maintain records of application
forms, preliminary plats, final plats, construction drawings, and other
required submissions under the terms of these regulations.
   (C)   In order to administer these regulations, the Planning Commission
shall do the following:
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall be composed of five members for terms
of six years each;
      (2)   Meetings shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at such
other times as the Planning Commission may determine. All meetings shall be
open to the public and minutes shall be kept of the proceedings;
      (3)   Review the preliminary plat submitted by a subdivider and either
accept, accept with modifications or reject said preliminary plat;
      (4)   Evaluate the recommendation of the Enforcement Officer and Village
Administrator relative to the preliminary plat and final plat applications;
      (5)   Review the final plat and construction drawings submitted by the
subdivider, check that the final plat is in accordance with the preliminary
plat, check that the construction drawings are in accordance with the
regulations of the Village Administrator, determine that the requirements in
these regulations have been met, and either accept, accept with modifications,
or reject said final plat;
      (6)   Make recommendations to the Village Council relative to the
acceptance of public rights-of-way contained within the particular subdivision;
      (7)   Shall be responsible for the uniform administration of these
regulations; and
      (8)   The Planning Commission shall make recommendations to Village
Council when amendments to these regulations would further the intent and
objective of these regulations.
   (D)   The Board of Zoning Appeals (BZA) shall be composed of five members
for terms of five years. The Mayor shall appoint a Chairperson, Vice-
Chairperson and Secretary.
      (1)   Specific powers relative to the administrative errors.
         (a)   The BZA shall hear and decide appeals, where it is alleged that
there is an error in any administrative decision made in the enforcement of the
regulations.
         (b)   The subdivider shall file a notice of appeal with the
Enforcement Officer and the BZA specifying the grounds thereof. All requested
appeals shall be submitted within 20 days of the decision.
         (c)   The Enforcement Officer shall transmit to the BZA all of the
papers, constituting the record upon which the action appealed from is taken.
         (d)   Normally, such review by the BZA shall be limited to alleged
errors in interpretation of these regulations.
      (2)   Specific powers relative to variances. The BZA shall have the power
to authorize upon appeal in specific cases, such variances from the provisions
or requirements of these regulations as will not be contrary to the public
interest. No variance from the strict application of any provision of these
regulations shall be granted by the BZA unless it finds, beyond reasonable
doubt, that all of the following facts and conditions exist:
         (a)   Special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar to
the land involved, such as irregular, abnormally narrow, shallow, or steep lots
or other unusual physical conditions and which are not applicable to other
lands in the immediate district;
         (b)   Literal interpretation of the provisions of these regulations
would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other property owners
in the immediate district under the terms of these regulations;
         (c)   The special conditions and circumstances do not result from the
actions of the applicant;
         (d)   Granting the variance requested will provide the minimum
necessary relief to alleviate the hardship and will not confer on the applicant
any special privilege that is denied by these regulations to other lands,
structures or buildings in the same district; and
         (e)   That granting of the variance will be in harmony with the
general purpose and intent of these regulations and will not be injurious to
the neighborhood or otherwise detrimental to the public welfare.
      (3)   Application procedure.
         (a)   All submittals made to the BZA shall be in writing and filed
with the Village Administrator at least 14 days prior to the meeting at which
they are to be heard. Each submittal shall refer to the specific provisions of
these regulations involved and shall set forth a clear and exact description of
land involved, the interpretation of these regulations that is claimed, and/or
the details of the variance proposed to be granted.
         (b)   Written applications for appeals or variances shall be made to
the Enforcement Officer and the BZA.
   (E)   The County Recorder shall perform the following functions:
      (1)   Record the final plat of a subdivision once said final plat has
been officially approved by the Enforcement Officer, Village Administrator,
Planning Commission, Village Council and County Engineer;
      (2)   Transfer property and record deed or leases, where the subdivision
of land is involved, only after the subdivider has met all the requirements of
these regulations; and
      (3)   Enter the lots of record from all final plats upon the county tax
list for the purpose of taxation.
   (F)   The Village Administrator shall have the following responsibilities:
      (1)   Make all necessary inspections of the construction of required
public improvements to determine that they meet the requirements of these
regulations;
      (2)   Review and approve the preliminary plat so as to ensure its
compliance with these regulations; and
      (3)   Review and approve the final plat and construction drawings so as
to ensure their compliance with these regulations.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.008 SAVING CLAUSE.
   The enactment of these regulations shall not affect or prevent the
prosecution or punishment of any person for any action done or committed in
violation of any ordinance or part of provisions of any ordinance of the
village, to the taking effect of these regulations.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.009 RELATION TO OTHER LAWS.
   The provisions of these regulations shall supplement any and all laws of the
state, ordinances of the village, village design criteria, and construction
standards and drawings, or any and all rules and regulations promulgated by
authority of such law or ordinance relating to the intent and scope of these
regulations. Whenever the requirements of these regulations are at variance
with the requirements of any law, ordinance, regulations of the Board of Health
or OEPA, the most restrictive or that imposing the higher standards shall
govern.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.010 INTERPRETATION AND SEPARABILITY.
   (A)   Interpretation. In their interpretation and application, provisions of
these regulations shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the
promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   Separability. If any part or provision of these regulations or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is judged invalid by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such judgment shall be confined in its
operation to the part, provision, or application directly involved in all
controversy in which such judgment shall have been rendered and shall not
affect or impair the validity of the remainder of these regulations or the
application thereof to other persons or circumstances. The Council hereby
declares that it would have enacted the remainder of these regulations even
without any such part, provision or application.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.011 AMENDMENT.
   Upon recommendation by the Planning Commission, these regulations may be
amended by the Village Council after public hearing and other requirements as
specified in the Ohio Revised Code.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.012 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The words
“used” or “occupied” include the words “intended, designed, or arranged to be
used or occupied”. The word “lot” includes the words “plot” or “parcel”.
   ALLEY. See THOROUGHFARE.
   BLOCK. A unit of property entirely surrounded by public highways and
streets, railroad rights-of-way, waterways, or other barriers, or combination
thereof.
   BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS. The Village Zoning Board of Appeals.
   BUFFER AREA. A strip or parcel of land privately restricted or publicly
dedicated as open space located between a residential development and other
incompatible use for the purpose of protecting and enhancing the residential
environment.
   BUILDING LINE. See SETBACK LINE.
   COMMUNITY FACILITIES. Existing, planned, and proposed parks, playgrounds,
schools, other public lands and buildings of the village for which these
regulations are in effect.
   COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A plan, which may consist of several maps,
data, policies, and other descriptive matter, for the physical development of
the village when adopted by the village to indicate the general location for
proposed physical facilities including housing, industrial and business uses,
major streets, parks, schools, public sites, and other similar information.
   CONSTRUCTION DRAWINGS. A complete set of engineering drawings drawn to scale
containing, but not limited to, grading plans, street plans and profiles,
cross-sections, sanitary sewer plans and profiles, water main plans and
profiles, storm sewer plans and profiles, a complete topographical layout of
all existing appurtenances and structures located within the right-of-way, and
any other requirement as outlined in the village design criteria and
construction standards and drawings.
   CORNER LOT. See LOT.
   CUL-DE-SAC. See THOROUGHFARE.
   DEAD-END STREET. See THOROUGHFARE.
   DEDICATION. The appropriation of land to the village by its owner for any
public use.
   DEVELOPER. Any person, subdivider, partnership or corporation, or duly
authorized agent who constructs or contracts to construct improvements on
subdivided land.
   DEVELOPMENT. See SUBDIVISION.
   DEVELOPMENT AREA. Any contiguous (abutting) area owned by one person or
operated as one development unit and used or being developed for commercial,
industrial, residential, or other purposes upon which earth-disturbing
activities are planned or underway.
   EASEMENT. Authorization by a property owner for the use by another, and for
a specified purpose, of any designated part of his or her property.
   ENGINEER. Any person registered to practice professional engineering by the
State Board of Registration as specified in the Ohio Revised Code, including
R.C. § 4733.14.
   FINAL PLAT. See PLAT.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Street pavement or resurfacing, curbs, gutters, sidewalks,
pedestrian walkway, water lines, sanitary and storm sewers, landscaping, and
other related matters normally associated with the development of land into
building sites.
   INSPECT, INSPECTION. The visual observation of construction to permit the
village or their representative to render his or her professional opinion as to
whether the contractor is performing the services in a manner indicating that,
when completed, the services will be in accordance with the village subdivision
regulations, construction standards and drawings, and design criteria. Such
observations shall not be relied upon in any part as acceptance of the
services, nor shall they relieve any party from fulfillment of customary and
contractual responsibilities and obligations.
   LOT. A parcel of land of sufficient size to meet minimum zoning requirements
for use, coverage, and area, and to provide such yards and other open spaces as
are herein required. Such LOT shall have frontage on an improved public street
and may consist of:
      (1)   A single lot of record;
      (2)   A portion of lot of record; and
      (3)   A combination of complete lots of record, of complete lots of
record and portions of lots of record, or of portions of lots of record.
   LOT AREA. The total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot which is
computed exclusive of any portion of the right-of-way of any public street.
   LOT LINE.
      (1)   FRONT. A street right-of-way line forming the boundary of a lot.
      (2)   REAR. The lot line that is most distant from, and is, or is most
parallel with, the front lot line. If a rear lot line is less than 15 feet
long, or if the lot comes to a point at the rear, the rear lot line shall be a
line at least 15 feet, lying wholly within the lot, parallel to the front lot
line.
      (3)   SIDE. A lot line which is neither a front lot line nor a rear lot
line. A side lot line separating a lot from a street is called a side street
lot line.
   MAINTENANCE SURETY. A surety by a subdivider or developer with the village
for the amount of 10% of the performance surety guaranteeing the maintenance of
the physical improvements according to the plans and specifications within the
time prescribed.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. See SUBDIVISION.
   MONUMENTS. Permanent concrete or iron markers used to establish definite
lines of the plat of a subdivision, including all lot corners, boundary line
corners, and points of change in street alignment, and shall comply with the
state minimum standards for boundary surveys.
   OFFICIAL THOROUGHFARE PLAN. The part of the Comprehensive Development Plan
which sets forth the location, alignment, and dimensions of existing and
proposed streets and thoroughfares.
   PARCEL. A piece of land that cannot be designated by lot number.
   PERFORMANCE SURETY. A surety by a subdivider or developer with the village
for the amount of the estimated construction cost guaranteeing the completion
of all required public improvements according to the plans and specifications
within the time prescribed.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Village Planning Commission.
   PLAT. A map of a tract or parcel of land, made from a survey by a registered
surveyor in the state.
      (1)   FINAL PLAT. A plat of all or part of a subdivision providing
substantial conformance to the preliminary plat of the subdivision prepared in
conformance with these regulations and suitable for recording by the County
Recorder.
      (2)   PRELIMINARY PLAT. A plat showing all requisite details of a
proposed subdivision submitted to the Planning Commission for purpose of
preliminary consideration, prepared in conformance with these regulations.
   PROTECTIVE COVENANT. A restriction on the use of all private property within
a subdivision, to be set forth on the plat and/or incorporated in each deed,
for the benefit of the property owners, and to provide mutual protection
against undesirable aspects of development which would tend to impair stability
of values.
   PUBLIC RESERVATION. A portion of a subdivision which is set aside for public
use and made available for public use or acquisition.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. A firm, association, syndicate, corporation, co-partnership,
municipal authority, or public agency, board, or commission, duly authorized to
furnish, and furnishing under governmental regulations, to the public:
facilities, products, or services, such as gas, electricity, sewage disposal,
communication, telephone, transportation, water and the like.
   PUBLIC WALKWAY. A right-of-way dedicated for the purpose of a pedestrian
access through residential, commercial, and industrial areas, and located so as
to connect to two or more streets, or a street and a public land parcel.
   REPLATS/VACATION PLATS. Alteration, modification or adjustment of existing
lots, lot lines, property lines or right-of-way lines, and/or vacation thereof
within the village shall require Planning Commission and Village Council
approval.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any strip or area of land, including surface, overhead, and/or
underground, granted by deed or easement or dedication to the public for the
construction and maintenance of roadways, sidewalks, electrical transmission
lines, oil or gas pipelines, water mains, sanitary and storm sewer mains,
drainage and irrigation canals/ditches, or for other special uses. The usage of
the term RIGHT-OF-WAY for land platting purposes shall mean that every RIGHT-
OF-WAY hereafter established and shown on a final plat is to be separate and
distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining such RIGHT-OF-WAY and not included
within the dimensions or areas of such lots or parcels.
   SETBACK LINE. A line established by the zoning regulations, generally
parallel with and measured from the lot line, defining the limits of a yard in
which no portion of any principal structure other than an accessory building
may be located, except as may be provided in said zoning regulations.
   SIDEWALK. An improved concrete strip of land running parallel with a
roadway, generally located between the edge of roadway pavement and the right-
of-way line that provides pedestrian access along the block frontage.
   SKETCH PLAN. An informal plan or sketch showing the existing features of a
site and its surroundings and the general layout of a proposed subdivision
which can be presented to the Planning Commission for informal discussions.
   STREET. See THOROUGHFARE.
   SUBDIVIDER. See DEVELOPER.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of any parcel of land shown as a unit or as
contiguous units on the last preceding tax roll, into two or more parcels,
sites, or lots, any one of which is less than five acres, for the purpose,
whether immediate or future, of transfer of ownership; provided however, that
the division or partition of land into parcels of more than five acres not
involving any new streets or easements of access shall be exempted; and the
sale or exchange of parcels between adjoining lot owners where such sale or
exchange does not create additional building sites, shall be exempted or the
improvement of one or more parcels of land for residential, commercial, or
industrial structures or groups of structures involving the division or
allocation of land for the opening, widening, or extension of any street or
streets; except private streets serving industrial structures the division or
allocation of land as open spaces for common use by owners, occupants, or lease
holders, or as easements for the extension and maintenance of public sewer,
water, storm drainage, or other public facilities.
      (1)   MAJOR SUBDIVISION. Division of a lot or parcel of land into more
than five lots or parcels, and/or the creation or establishment of new streets
or roadways by the division of a lot or parcel of land.
      (2)   MINOR SUBDIVISION. Division of a lot or parcel of land along an
existing public thoroughfare into not more than five lots or parcels not
establishing a new street or roadway.
   SURVEYOR. Any person registered to practice surveying by the State Board of
Registration as specified in the Ohio Revised Code, including R.C. § 4733.02.
   THOROUGHFARE; STREET OR ROAD. The full width between property lines bounding
every public way of any nature, with a part thereof to be used for vehicular
traffic and designated as follows.
      (1)   ALLEY. A right-of-way used primarily for vehicular service access
to the back or side of properties abutting on another street.
      (2)   ARTERIAL STREET. A general term denoting a highway primarily for
through traffic carrying heavy loads and large volumes of traffic, usually on a
continuous route.
      (3)   COLLECTOR STREET. A thoroughfare, whether within a residential,
industrial, commercial or other type of development, which primarily carries
traffic from local streets to arterial streets or to other collector streets,
including the principal entrance and circulation routes within residential
subdivisions.
      (4)   CUL-DE-SAC. A local street with one end open to traffic and the
other end terminating in a vehicular turnaround.
      (5)   DEAD-END STREET. A street temporarily having only one outlet for
vehicular traffic and intended to be extended or continued in the future.
      (6)   LOCAL STREET A street designed to provide access to abutting
property and to discourage through traffic.
      (7)   LOOP STREET. A type of local street, each end of which terminates
at an intersection with same arterial or collector street, and whose principal
radius points of the 180 system of turns are not more than 1,000 feet from said
arterial or collector street, nor normally more than 600 feet from each other.
   VARIANCE. A modification of the strict terms of the relevant regulations
where such modification will not be contrary to the public interest and where
owing to conditions peculiar to the property, and not the result of the action
of the applicant, a literal enforcement of the regulations would result in
unnecessary and undue hardship.
   VICINITY MAP. A drawing located on the plat which sets forth, by dimensions
or other means, the relationship of the proposed subdivision or use to other
nearby development or landmarks and community facilities and services within
the village in order to better locate and orient the area in question.
   VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR. A person appointed by Council to handle the
administration of the village. The Village Administrator may appoint an
authorized representative to administer these regulations.
   ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER/VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR. The person designated by
the local government to enforce the Zoning Code.
   ZONING REGULATIONS. The Zoning Code for the village which regulates the use
of land by districts or zones and as the same may be amended or supplemented.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
MINOR SUBDIVISION
§ 152.025 INTENT.
   The purpose of a minor subdivision is that these regulations shall be
handled by the Village Administrator and require a survey plat with a legal
description, fees, and may include a sketch plat as recommended by the Planning
Commission.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.026 MINOR SUBDIVISION CONDITIONS.
   Approval of a minor subdivision may be granted by the Village Administrator,
as the properly designated representative of the Planning Commission, if the
proposed subdivision of the parcel of land meets all of the following
conditions:
   (A)   The proposed subdivision is located along an existing improved public
road and involves no opening, widening, or extension of any street or road;
   (B)   The proposed division of a parcel of land involves no more than five
lots, after the original parcel has been completely subdivided, any one of
which is under five acres (inclusive of the remaining parcel);
   (C)   The proposed subdivision is not contrary to applicable subdivision
regulations, design criteria, construction standards and drawings, or zoning
regulations;
   (D)   Plat and description of the property are based on a survey completed
by a professional surveyor and in compliance with county platting regulations;
and
   (E)   The physical characteristics of the property are suitable for building
sites.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.027 SUBMISSION FOR APPROVAL OF MINOR SUBDIVISION.
   The subdivider shall prepare and submit one original and three copies of the
minor subdivision plat along with an electronic image file in TIFF image format
to the Village Administrator. The minor subdivision plat shall be considered
officially filed on the day it is received and properly noted and shall be so
dated. However, the minor subdivision plat shall not be considered properly
submitted until all applicable fees are paid (see §
152.138) and a survey plat and legal description are provided to the Village
Administrator.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.028 MINOR SUBDIVISION PLAT CONTENTS.
   The minor subdivision plat shall contain the following information:
   (A)   Registration number, seal and signature of the surveyor responsible
for the plat;
   (B)   Name of the subdivider/owner;
   (C)   Location by section, range, township or by subdivision name and lot
number;
   (D)   Date, title of plat, north arrow, scale and acreage to thousandths of
acre;
   (E)   Name of abutting streets including right-of-way width;
   (F)   Existing buildings, septic facilities and wells, if applicable;
   (G)   The minor subdivision plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn. A plat
shall indicate the size of the parcel, existing and proposed rights-of-way
within 100 feet, existing and proposed ownership, any existing parcel within
100 feet, and its owner and size;
   (H)   Areas within the 100-year floodplain and within floodways, as
determined by mapping provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA), shall be delineated;
   (I)   Name and address of owners of parcel and adjoining parcels;
   (J)   Survey boundaries and lot lines drawn on an 11" x 17" sheet and at a
scale between 1" = 10' and 1" = 100'. All dimensions shall be shown in feet and
hundredths of feet;
   (K)   Location of monuments and their descriptions;
   (L)   Other items or provisions deemed necessary by the Planning Commission;
   (M)   The survey shall conform to the minimum standards for boundary surveys
in the state (O.A.C. § 4733-37); and
   (N)   Approval signature and date lines for Village Administrator, Zoning
Enforcement Officer and County Engineer.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.029 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION.
   Any of the following information may be required by the Planning Commission
or Village Administrator on the basis of the characteristics of the subject
property:
   (A)   Lot grading and drainage plan, illustrating a plan for the handling of
surface and subsurface drainage, showing proposed finished grade elevations,
the type, size, location, and outlet of all existing and proposed drainage
systems, swales, easements, water and sanitary services, and proposed ground
cover; and
   (B)   Other information as deemed necessary by the Village Administrator in
order to create building sites and promote the public health, safety and
welfare.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.030 APPROVAL OF A MINOR SUBDIVISION.
   After the complete submittal is considered officially filed, a copy of the
survey plat is then checked by the Village Administrator or Planning Commission
for its conformity with these regulations. The Village Administrator or
Planning Commission shall approve or disapprove the minor subdivision within
seven working days after it has been officially and properly submitted. If
approval is granted under these conditions, it shall be signed and dated as
approved. If the proposed subdivision is disapproved, the subdivider shall be
notified in writing stating the grounds for disapproval. The plat shall then be
taken by the subdivider to the County Auditor for the transfer of property and
then to the County Recorder where it will become a legal lot of record. Lot
split requests expire if not recorded within one year of initial fee payment. A
proposal remaining unapproved by the Planning Commission or Village
Administrator for one year from the date of fee payment shall expire and become
void. Incomplete or deficient proposals shall be disapproved and the subdivider
notified of issues and reasons for the disapproval. The subdivider shall
furnish the village with a reproducible of the recorded plat.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
PRELIMINARY PLAT
§ 152.040 INTENT.
   (A)   The developer may submit a preliminary plat for review and tentative
approval prior to the formulation and submittal of detailed construction
drawings. The preliminary plat is conducted for the developer’s benefit and at
his or her discretion; its submission does not constitute a formal subdivision
review pursuant to R.C. § 711.09. With the submission of the preliminary plat,
the applicant waives any rights to an approval under R.C. § 711.09 until such
time as application is made for final subdivision plat review and is submitted
to the Planning Commission for review and approval as detailed in these
regulations.
   (B)   The purpose of the preliminary plat is to show on a map for all major
subdivisions all the facts which may enable the Planning Commission to
determine whether the proposed layout of land including street layout,
utilities and stormwater controls is satisfactory from the standpoint of the
public interest. The plat shall be prepared by a registered surveyor of the
state. Approval of the preliminary plat, in effect, provides a concept approval
of the subdivision proposal. It may be advisable for the subdivider/owner to
meet with the Village Administrator or his or her representative to become
familiar with the village regulations.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.041 SUBMISSION FOR PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL.
   The subdivider shall prepare and submit six copies of the preliminary plat
of the proposed subdivision along with an electronic image file in TIFF image
format and the construction plans along with a completed preliminary plat
checklist with remarks to the Village Administrator.
   (A)   The preliminary plat shall be considered officially filed on the day
it is received and properly noted and shall be so dated.
   (B)   The preliminary plat shall not be considered properly submitted until
all applicable fees are paid by the developer (see § 151.138).
   (C)   All plats and plans are provided to the Village Administrator.
   (D)   The subdivider shall provide a copy of the preliminary plat to the
local utility companies.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.042 PRELIMINARY PLAT FORM.
   The preliminary plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn. The size of the
plat shall not be less than 24" x 36". If the preliminary plat is to be drawn
in sections, each section shall be accompanied by a key map, showing the
location of the sections. The plat of a subdivision containing five acres or
less shall be drawn to a scale of 1" = 50'. All other subdivisions shall be
drawn to a scale of 1" = 100'.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.043 PRELIMINARY PLAT CONTENTS.
   The preliminary plat shall clearly show the following features and
information.
   (A)   Items of title.
      (1)   Proposed name of subdivision. The name of the subdivision and
proposed streets shall not duplicate, or too closely resemble, the name of any
other subdivision or street, subject to Planning Commission approval;
      (2)   Location by numerically labeled inlot or outlot;
      (3)   Name and address of property owner/developer;
      (4)   Scale of the plat;
      (5)   North arrow;
      (6)   Name and address of the professional surveyor who prepared the
plat. Date of preparation;
      (7)   Location by section, town, range or by other legal description;
      (8)   Signature and date lines for the Planning Commission Chairperson
and Village Administrator;
      (9)   Stamp and signature of the professional surveyor; and
      (10)   Location of front building setback lines clearly marked on the
lot.    
   (B)   Existing site conditions/characteristics.
      (1)   Perimeter boundaries of the proposed subdivision indicated by a
heavy solid line and the approximate acreage comprised therein;
      (2)   Location, widths and names of all existing or platted streets,
indicated as to: dedicated, undedicated, constructed or unimproved, official
thoroughfares or other public ways, railroad and utility rights-of-way,
easements, parks and other open spaces, permanent buildings, section and
corporation lines within, or adjacent to the subject tract;
      (3)   Location and size of all existing utilities: sewers, water mains,
telephone, electric, gas, culverts, or other underground items located within
or adjacent to the subject tract;
      (4)   Names of adjacent subdivisions and owners of adjoining parcels;
      (5)   Topographic map of such proposed subdivision shall be submitted
with the preliminary plat, showing one-foot contour intervals for all land
within and 50 feet adjacent to the subject site;
      (6)   Current zoning classification of the tract and adjoining
properties; and
      (7)   The vicinity sketch shown on the preliminary plat.
   (C)   Proposed site conditions/characteristics.
      (1)   Street layout, including street names and widths, alleys, cross-
walkways and easements, and their dimensions;
      (2)   Layout, numbers and approximate dimensions of lots, including lot
area (as measured in acres or square feet);
      (3)   Parcels of land intended to be dedicated or temporarily reserved
for public use and the conditions of such dedication or reservation;
      (4)   Building setback lines, along all streets, with dimensions;
      (5)   Indication of the proposed zoning designation to identify the
potential development so as to reveal the nature of the impact the proposal
will have on traffic flow, fire hazard, congestion, public utility capacities
and required services;
      (6)   A typewritten copy of the protective covenants or deed
restrictions, if any; and
      (7)   Indication of any developmental phasing or staged development
timing.
   (D)   Construction plans. The proposed preliminary subdivision plat shall be
accompanied by preliminary construction plans consisting of:
      (1)   A centerline profile for each street shown thereon, drawn to a
scale of at least 1" = 100' horizontal and 1" = 10' vertical;
      (2)   A preliminary layout, drawn to a scale of at least 1" = 100',
including proposed placement of water lines, sanitary sewers and storm sewers.
These may be incorporated in the above preliminary plat; and
      (3)   A preliminary drainage plan including proposed storm detention
location. This may be incorporated in the above preliminary plat.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.044 APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   The Village Administrator shall check for completeness of the
preliminary plat as required by these regulations. When completed, the Village
Administrator shall schedule a Planning Commission meeting.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall review all details of the proposed
subdivision within the framework of the applicable zoning regulations, the
various elements of these regulations, the design criteria, the construction
standards and drawings, and the various elements of the Comprehensive
Development Plan.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall give careful study to the preliminary
plat, taking into consideration the requirements of the community and the best
possible use of the land to be subdivided, together with its prospective
character, whether residential, commercial, or industrial. Attention shall be
given to street widths, arrangement and circulation, surface drainage, lot
sizes and arrangements, and to such neighborhood and community requirements as
park, school, and playground sites and main thoroughfare widths and locations.
   (D)   The Planning Commission shall forward copies of the preliminary plat
to such officials and agencies as may be necessary for the purpose of study and
recommendation. This shall include at least the Village Administrator.
   (E)   After receipt of such reports from such officials and agencies, the
Planning Commission shall determine whether the preliminary plat shall be
approved, approved with modifications or disapproved. If a plat is disapproved,
the reasons for disapproval shall be stated in writing and recorded in the
minutes of the Planning Commission meeting.
   (F)   The Planning Commission shall act on the preliminary plat within 30
days after filing unless such time is extended by agreement with the
subdivider. When a preliminary plat has been approved by the Planning
Commission, the Chairperson and Village Administrator shall sign and date all
copies and return one to the subdivider.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.045 PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL PERIOD.
   The approval of the preliminary plat shall be effective for a maximum period
of 12 months unless the first section has been filed for final approval. If no
subsequent sections are filed within three years from the recording of the
previous sections, the approval of the remainder of the preliminary plat is no
longer effective. The terms under which the approval is granted will not be
affected by changes to these regulations during the maximum period of 12
months.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.046 PRELIMINARY PLAT CHECKLIST.
Subdivision                                                           
Date                      
This list is not all inclusive, but is to be used as a guideline for submittals
and reviews.
Description Remarks
Description                                                             Remarks
Received fees                                                            
Six copies of plat (at a scale of not more than 1" = 100')               
Name of subdivision                                                      
Location of property with respect to surrounding property and streets    
Location by township, section, town and range                            
Names of all adjoining property owners or names of adjoining developers  
Name of adjoining subdivisions                                           
Location and names of adjoining streets                                  
Location of corporation line, if applicable                              
Location and dimensions of all boundary lines of the property in feet    
and decimals of a foot
Vicinity sketch                                                          
Indication of zoning                                                     
Location of existing easements                                           
Location of existing water bodies, streams and other pertinent
features, such as railroads, buildings, parks, cemeteries, drainage      
ditches, bridges and the like
Locations, dimensions and areas of all proposed or existing lots         
Location and dimensions of all property proposed to be set aside for
park or playground use, or other public or private reservation, with     
designation of the purpose thereof, and conditions, if any, of the
dedication or reservation
Date of plat                                                             
Scale of plat                                                            
North arrow                                                              
Data from which the location, bearing, and length of all lines can be    
determined and reproduced on the ground
Names of new streets as approved by the Planning Commission              
Indication of the use of any lot and all uses other than residential     
Lots consecutively numbered                                              
Approximate dimensions of lots, including lot area                       
Front building setback lines                                             
Profiles showing existing and proposed elevations along centerline of    
all streets
Approximate stationing on all streets                                    
Location, size, and invert elevations of all existing and proposed       
sanitary sewers and stormwater sewers and structures
Preliminary drainage plan including proposed stormwater detention        
location
Location and size of all water lines                                     
Topography at the same scale with contour interval of one-foot           
Other specifications and references required by the local government;
construction standards and specifications, including a site grading      
plan for the entire subdivision
Title of property, name and address of owner, and signature of surveyor  
Date, including revision dates                                           
Notation of approval, signature line for Planning Commission             
Chairperson
Name and address of subdivider and/or developer                          
Copy of protective covenants, if applicable                              
Indication of any developmental phasing or staged development timing     
Meets zoning requirements (i.e., minimum frontage, setbacks, area and    
the like)
Conformance with major street plan                                       
No flood hazards                                                         
Right-of-way widths, meets minimum criteria                              
Avoidance of multiple intersections                                      
Lengths of blocks, meets minimum criteria                                
 
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
FINAL PLAT
§ 152.060 FINAL PLAT REQUIRED.
   Having received the approval of the preliminary plat, if applicable, the
subdivider shall submit a final plat containing all changes required by the
Planning Commission in the preliminary plat. The final plat and the
supplementary information shall be certified by a professional surveyor.
Construction plans, drawings and specifications shall be certified by a
professional engineer licensed to practice in the state.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.061 SUBMISSION FOR APPROVAL OF FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   The subdivider shall prepare and submit the following:
      (1)   Six copies of the final plat along with an electronic image file in
TIFF image format of the proposed subdivision;
      (2)   Three copies of construction drawings related to the improvements
to be constructed in the proposed subdivision;
      (3)   Two copies of an itemized engineer’s estimate with quantities for
all proposed improvements including the estimate of cost for each item;
      (4)   A copy of the storm sewer and storm detention calculations and
other applicable calculations for design;
      (5)   Completed final plat checklist with remarks; and
      (6)   Completed final construction plan checklist with remarks (see
design criteria for list.)
   (B)   All final plats, construction drawings, and supporting documents shall
meet all design criteria and construction standards and drawings established by
the village, the zoning regulations of the village, or requirements established
by other governmental organizations having jurisdiction over the improvements.
The most restrictive requirements shall apply.
   (C)   The final plat shall be considered officially filed on the day it is
received and properly noted and shall be so dated. However, the final plat
shall not be considered properly submitted until all applicable fees are paid
by the developer (see § 152.138) and until all plans, supporting documents, and
materials are provided to the Village Administrator.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.062 FINAL PLAT FORM.
   (A)   The final plat shall be clearly legibly drawn on reproducible Mylar.
The size of the plat shall be 24" x 36". The plat of a subdivision containing
five acres or less, shall be drawn to a scale of 1" = 50'. All other
subdivisions shall be drawn to a scale of 1" = 100'. The minimum lettering
height shall be 3/32 inches and all lot dimensions shall be one-eighth inch or
larger. Lot number lettering shall be one-fourth inch or larger and underlined
or circled.
   (B)   If the final plat is drawn in two or more sections, each section shall
be accompanied by a key map showing the location of the sections. All final
plat sections shall either totally include or totally exclude intersections and
all lots fronting such intersections.
   (C)   Construction drawings shall be submitted in the form stated in the
village design criteria. The plans shall consist of the required improvements
stated in these regulations.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.063 FINAL PLAT CONTENTS.
   The final plat shall contain the following information:
   (A)   Name of the subdivision (which shall not duplicate or closely resemble
the name of any other subdivision in the county), location by section, town,
range and township, or by other survey number, date, north arrow and basis of
bearing, acreage to thousandths of an acre (total lot acreage and total street
acreage) and deed book and page reference;
   (B)   Name and address of the subdividers, the professional engineer, and
registered surveyor who prepared the plat and appropriate registration numbers
and seals;
   (C)   The total area being platted shall include all perimeter courses and
be outlined by a heavy-line border. Courses are to be listed in a clockwise
direction. All dimensions, both lineal and angular, shall be determined by an
accurate control survey in the field. The error of closure shall conform to the
Ohio Administrative Code;
   (D)   Bearings and distances to the nearest centerline of intersecting roads
or the intersection of right-of-way lines; lot corners of recorded plat with
plat reference; or section corner or quarter section corner;
   (E)   Names, exact location, dimensions, and right-of-way width of all
streets and railroads within and adjoining the plat and building setback lines.
Street names shall be approved by the Planning Commission;
   (F)   Radii, internal angles, points of curvature, tangent bearings, lengths
of arcs and chord length bearing of all applicable streets within the plat area
shall be illustrated on the plat;
   (G)   The exact locations, dimensions and uses of easements shall be
illustrated on the plat;
   (H)   All lots accurately dimensioned in feet and hundredths with lot
numbers and acreage. The lot numbers shall be consecutive for each platted
section and shall be placed in the center of the lot with acreage under the lot
number. Replatted lots shall illustrate existing lot numbers, lot lines dashed
and utility easements on the plat;
   (I)   Accurate location and a description of all monuments as to type, size
and whether the monument was found or set. If a monument has been omitted or
off-set, a notation shall appear on the plat indicating the reason for the
omission; or if it has been offset, its true location in relation to the
property corner or lot corner shall be noted;
   (J)   Accurate outlines of areas to be dedicated or reserved for public use
or any area to be reserved for the common use of all property owners. The use
and accurate boundary locations shall be shown for each parcel of land to be
dedicated;
   (K)   Any restrictions and covenants shall be shown on the final plat;
   (L)   Certification shall contain the following:
      (1)   The total acres being subdivided;
      (2)   Current ownership; and
      (3)   Deed reference.
   (M)   (1)   Acknowledgment dedication statement of the owner or owners to
the plat and restrictions, including dedications to public use of all public
streets, alleys, parks or other open spaces shown thereon and the granting of
the required easements, as shall be indicated by the following statement on the
plat tracing: “Easements shown on this plat are for the construction,
operation, maintenance, repair, replacement, or removal of water, gas, sewer,
electric, telephone, or other utilities or services, and for the express
privilege of removing any and all trees or other obstructions to the free use
of said utilities and for providing of ingress and egress to the property for
said purposes, and are to be maintained as such indefinitely”.
      (2)   A statement of intention and request for the vacation of lot lines
and easements on previously platted properties, and the signature of authorized
representatives of local utility companies (electric, telephone, cable
television and the like) acknowledging the abandonment of easements.
   (N)   The names of record of all abutting parcels with deed reference,
acreage and survey record reference, if applicable. Platted land shall show the
name of the subdivision, lot numbers, plat book and page reference;
   (O)   Any section lines, corporation limits, township and county lines shall
be accurately documented and located on the plat and their names lettered
thereon;
   (P)   Location of permanent facilities and easements used for drainage
control, such as detention ponds, retention ponds, infiltration beds and the
like and statement of the provisions for the maintenance of these facilities;
and
   (Q)   Approval signature and date lines shall be provided for the Mayor,
Clerk of Council, Planning Commission Chairperson, County Engineer, Zoning
Enforcement Officer, Village Administrator and County Engineer.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.064 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION.
   The following information shall be supplied in addition to the above
requirements.
   (A)   If a zoning change is involved, certification from the Village
Administrator shall be required indicating that the change has been approved
and is in effect.
   (B)   Certification shall be required showing that all required improvements
have been either installed and approved by the proper officials or agencies, or
that a surety has been furnished assuring installation and initial maintenance
of the required improvements.
   (C)   In flood prone areas, the subdivider shall provide information
detailing how the structures will be protected from flood hazard.
   (D)   The Planning Commission may require the applicant to submit additional
topographic information, detailed plans for proposed uses, and other
information to determine possible flood or erosion hazards, the effect of the
subdivision use upon flood flows, and the adequacy of proposed flood protection
measures. The Planning Commission may consult with expert persons or agencies
for technical assistance and advice.
   (E)   These construction plans shall be submitted to the Ohio EPA for
approvals as required. Certification of Ohio EPA approval shall be provided on
the plans where applicable. Construction shall not commence until such
approvals are granted.
   (F)   The Village Administrator’s signature shall be provided on the
approved construction plans to verify compliance with the applicable
specifications and the requirements of these regulations.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.065 APPROVAL OF FINAL PLAT.
   The Planning Commission shall approve or disapprove the final plat within 30
days after it has been officially and properly filed with the Planning
Commission and so noted in the minutes. Failure of the Planning Commission to
act upon the final plat within such time shall be deemed as approval of the
plat. If the plat is disapproved, the grounds for disapproval shall be stated
in the records of the Planning Commission, and a copy of said record shall be
forwarded to the subdivider. If disapproved, the subdivider shall make the
necessary corrections and resubmit the final plat within 30 days to the
Planning Commission for final approval. When the final plat has been approved
by the Planning Commission, the original shall be forwarded to the Village
Council for their approval and endorsement. The original shall be returned to
the subdivider.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.066 RECORDING OF FINAL PLAT.
   After the final plat has been approved by the Planning Commission,
dedications accepted by the Council, and the necessary approval endorsed in
writing thereon, the subdivider shall record the plat in the Office of the
County Recorder. The final plat shall be recorded in the Office of the County
Recorder as required by law within 60 days after the date of final approval.
The subdivider shall furnish the village with a reproducible of the recorded
plat.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.067 FINAL PLAT CHECKLIST.
Subdivision                                                         
Date                      
This list is not all inclusive, but is to be used as a guideline for submittals
and reviews.
Description Remarks
Description                                                             Remarks
Received fees                                                            
Six copies of the final plat                                             
Three copies of construction drawings                                    
Two copies of engineer’s estimate                                      
One copy of storm sewer calculations, storm detention calculations and   
other necessary design calculations
Performance surety                                                       
Name of subdivision                                                      
Location by section, town, range and township                            
Date of plat                                                             
North arrow and basis of bearing                                         
Acreage to thousandths of an acre                                        
Deed book and reference page (plat book, if available)                   
Name and address of the subdividers                                      
Name and address of professional engineer who prepared plans, including  
registration number and seal
Name and address of professional surveyor who prepared plat, including   
registration number and seal
Perimeter of subdivision to be outlined by a heavy border                
All dimensions                                                           
Bearings and distances to the nearest centerline of intersecting roads   
Names, exact location, dimensions and right-of-way width of all streets  
Radii, internal angles, points of curvature, tangent bearings, chord
length and bearings, lengths of arcs of all applicable streets within    
the plat area
The exact locations, dimensions and uses of easements shall be           
illustrated on the plat
All lots accurately dimensioned in feet and hundredths with lot numbers  
and acreage
Replatted lots shall illustrate old lot numbers and lot lines dotted on  
the plat
Accurate location and a description of all monuments as to type, size    
and whether the monument was found or set
Any restrictions and covenants shall be shown on the final plat          
Acknowledgment dedication statement of the owner or owners to the        
A statement of intention and request for the vacation of lot lines and   
easements
The signature of authorized representatives of local utility companies   
acknowledging the abandonment of easements
Names of record of all abutting parcels with deed reference, acreage     
and survey record reference
Any section lines, corporation limits, township and county lines         
Location of permanent facilities and easements for same used for
drainage control, such as detention basin, retention ponds,              
infiltration beds and the like, and statement of the provisions for the
maintenance of these facilities
Construction plans submitted to the Ohio EPA for approvals as required   
Submitted within 12 months of preliminary approval                       
Conforms to preliminary plat and incorporates suggested changes          
Street names                                                             
Size of lots meet minimum requirement                                    
Setback lines meet minimum requirement                                   
Corner lot size appropriate                                              
Sufficient easements for utilities or open drainage                      
Approval signature and date lines                                        
 
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
ASSURANCE FOR COMPLETION AND MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS
§ 152.080 IMPROVEMENTS AND PERFORMANCE SURETY.
   In order that the village has the assurance that the construction and
installation of such improvements, such as street surfacing, curbs, gutters,
storm sewers and appurtenances, sanitary sewer, waterlines, sidewalks, and
other required improvements will be constructed, the subdivider shall provide a
performance surety.
   (A)   Performance surety.
      (1)   To get a final plat signed by the Mayor and Clerk before
improvements, the subdivider shall furnish either a bond, executed by a surety
company, cash deposit (certified check) or irrevocable letter of credit (form
must be approved by the Village Solicitor) equal to the cost of construction of
such improvements as shown on the plans, and based on an estimate approved by
the Village Administrator.
      (2)   The performance surety, cash deposit (certified check) or
irrevocable letter of credit to the village shall run for a period of one year
and be extendable for two years from the date of execution, and shall provide
that the subdivider, their heirs, successors, assigns and agent or servants
will comply with all applicable terms, conditions, provisions and requirements
of these regulations, and will faithfully perform and complete the work of
constructing and installing such facilities or improvements in accordance with
such laws and these regulations. Before said surety is accepted, it shall be
approved by the Village Solicitor. Whenever a cash deposit (certified check) is
made, the same shall be made out to the village.
   (B)   Extension of time. If the construction or installation of any
improvement or facility, for which guarantee has been made by the developer in
the form of a surety, is not completed within two years from the date of final
approval of the record plat, the developer may request the village to grant an
extension; provided he or she can show reasonable cause for inability to
complete said improvements within the required two years.
   (C)   Acceptance of dedication offers. Acceptance of formal offers of
dedication of streets, public areas, easements and parks shall be by ordinance
of the Village Council. The approval by the Planning Commission of a
subdivision plat shall not be deemed to constitute or imply the acceptance by
the local government of any street, easement or park shown on said plat.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.081 INSPECTION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Periodic inspections during the installation of improvements shall be
made by the village to ensure conformity with the approved plans and
specifications as required by these regulations.
   (B)   The subdivider shall notify proper village officials at least 24 hours
before each phase of the improvements is ready for inspection. The presence
and/or absence of an inspector during construction shall not relieve the
subdivider from full responsibility of required improvements to the village
construction standards and drawings, and to the satisfaction of the village.
See the village design criteria for inspection requirements. The village will
require improvement inspection fees (see §
152.138).
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.082 MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS AND MAINTENANCE SURETY.
   (A)   The applicant shall be required to maintain all improvements, if
required, until approval of said improvements. Once the required public
improvements have been constructed and approved in the subdivision by the
Village Administrator, and prior to the release of the performance surety, the
subdivider shall post with the village a maintenance surety in the amount of
10% of the performance surety and in a form as approved by the Village
Solicitor.
   (B)   No public improvements shall be approved until the subdivider has
posted an approved maintenance surety, and this maintenance surety will extend
for one year from the actual date that the final punch list has been completed
and approved by the village.
   (C)   Acceptance by the village of the public improvements will not take
place until the village releases the maintenance surety and the village
receives record drawings as outlined in the village design criteria. Record
drawings shall be stamped by a registered professional engineer or surveyor
verifying the accuracy of the drawings.
   (D)   Prior to release of the maintenance surety by the village, the
developer shall have paid all public improvement fees required by these
regulations and have completed all maintenance punch list items.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
 § 152.083 DEFERRAL OR WAIVER OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may defer or waive at the time of final
approval, subject to appropriate conditions, the provision of any or all such
improvements as, in its judgment, are not requisite in the interests of the
public health, public safety and general welfare, or which are inappropriate
because of inadequacy or lack of connecting facilities.
   (B)   Whenever it is deemed necessary by the Planning Commission to defer
the construction of any improvement required herein because of incompatible
grades, future planning, inadequate or lack of connecting facilities, or for
other reasons, the applicant shall pay his or her share of the costs of the
future improvements as approved by the Village Administrator and Village
Council to the village prior to the signing of the final subdivision plat.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.084 PROCEDURE IN CASE OF FAILURE TO COMPLETE IMPROVEMENT.
   The subdivider shall be in default of this performance surety when one of
the following conditions exist:
   (A)   The installation of all required public improvements as called for in
these regulations has not taken within the two-year time period agreed upon in
the subdivider’s contract with the village, and the subdivider has failed to
establish reasonable cause for such delay to the satisfaction of the Planning
Commission and thereby to receive a time extension; or
   (B)   The subdivider has not constructed the required public improvements in
accordance with the minimum standards specified in these regulations, and the
subdivider is unwilling to modify and to upgrade said public improvements
within a six-month time period so as to be in compliance with the provisions of
these regulations.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.085 PROCEDURE IN CASE OF DEFAULT.
   The subdivider shall be in default of his or her maintenance surety when the
required public improvements have not been properly maintained over the one-
year period as established in §
152.080 or when the required public improvements are not in accordance with the
as-built plans submitted by the subdivider to the village. The same shall apply
whenever construction of improvements is not performed in accordance with
applicable standards and specifications. In such cases of default, the village
shall proceed to utilize the performance surety and/or maintenance surety to
construct the required public improvements to the minimum design standards as
required in these regulations.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.086 ISSUANCE OF BUILDING/ZONING PERMITS.
   As determined by the Village Administrator, building/zoning permits will be
issued when the extent of the street improvements are completed with curb and
asphalt being installed. However, the subdivider is responsible for any damage
to improvements.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
REQUIREMENTS FOR CONSTRUCTION IMPROVEMENTS AND DESIGN
§ 152.100 GENERAL STATEMENT.
   (A)   The regulations contained in this section and the village design
criteria and construction standards and drawings shall control the manner in
which streets, lots, and other elements of a subdivision are arranged on the
land. These design controls shall help ensure convenient and safe streets,
creation of usable lots, provision of space for public utilities, and
reservation of land for recreational uses. The planning of attractive and
functional neighborhoods shall be promoted, minimizing the undesirable features
of unplanned, haphazard growth.
   (B)   The Planning Commission has the responsibility of reviewing the design
of each future subdivision early in its design development. The Planning
Commission shall ensure that all the requirements of this section and the
village design criteria and construction standards and drawings are met.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.101 CONFORMITY TO DEVELOPMENT PLANS AND ZONING.
   The arrangements, character, width, and location of all arterial and
collector thoroughfares or extensions thereof shall conform with the adopted
Comprehensive Development Plan. Lack of a Comprehensive Development Plan and
thoroughfares not contained in the aforementioned plan shall conform to the
recommendation of the Planning Commission, based upon these regulations. In
addition, no final plat shall be approved if in conflict with an existing
ordinance.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.102 STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The arrangements, character, extent, width, grade, construction and
location of all streets shall conform to the Comprehensive Development Plan,
and shall conform to the village design criteria and construction standards and
drawings. Street design shall take into consideration their relationship to
existing and planned streets, topographical conditions, and public convenience
and safety; and in their appropriate relation to the proposed uses of land to
be served by such streets. The street pattern shall discourage through traffic
in the interior of a subdivision. The subdivider shall provide within the
boundaries of the plat, the necessary right-of-way for the widening,
continuance or alignment of such streets in conformity with the Comprehensive
Development Plan.
   (B)   The subdivider shall improve all streets that are part of the
subdivision, including that portion of the subdivision located on existing
streets. The required improvements shall be such that all items of work are in
accordance with the village design criteria and construction standards and
drawings.
   (C)   Curbs and gutters shall be required for all streets including existing
streets.
   (D)   If one side of the subdivision abuts an existing street, the developer
shall pay for the total cost of one side for additional width of excavation,
curb and sidewalk including cost to bring the storm sewer system up to
standards.
   (E)   Appropriate access to and from any subdivision in the form of a
standard village street with required improvements must be provided by a
developer in instances where development is not located contiguously along an
improved public street right-of-way. No subdivision shall be approved where a
parcel, tract or lot has frontage only on the stub end of a discontinued or
dead-end street. Such street must first be extended or reconstructed as a cul-
de-sac in accordance with these regulations. No subdivision showing reserved
strips controlling the access to public ways will be approved.
   (F)   All street widths shall conform to the village design criteria and
construction standards and drawings. In cases where the designation of the
street is in question, the Planning Commission shall determine the type of
street designation.
   (G)   The subdivider shall prepare the street for the asphalt paving, which
includes excavation and backfill, Item 203 Subgrade Compaction and the placing
and compaction of Item 304 Aggregate Base. The subdivider will pay for all
costs associated with and for the installation of asphalt concrete, surface
course.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012; Ord. 20-25, passed 9-8-2020)
§ 152.103 STREET SIGNS AND STREET NAMES.
   (A)   Street name signs and other traffic control signs shall be purchased
and erected by the village.
   (B)   For purposes of street naming, the following is recommended:
      (1)   Circle, Place or Court should be used only for cul-de-sac type
streets; and
      (2)   The words north, south, east or west should be avoided as part of a
street name whenever possible.
   (C)   Whenever a new street is constructed along the approximate alignment
or extension of an existing street, its name shall be the same as that of the
existing one.
   (D)   To avoid duplication and confusion, the proposed names of all streets
shall be approved by the Planning Commission prior to such names being assigned
or used.
   (E)   House numbers shall be assigned in accordance with the current house
numbering system in effect in the village.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.104 SPECIAL STREET TYPES.
   The following requirements shall apply to special street types.
   (A)   Permanent dead-end streets shall not be permitted. Temporary dead-end
streets shall be permitted only as part of a continuing street plan and only if
a temporary turnaround satisfactory to the Planning Commission in design is
provided.
   (B)   Dedication of new half-streets shall not be permitted. Where a
dedicated or platted half-street exists adjacent to the tract being subdivided,
the other half shall be platted.
   (C)   Alleys shall not be approved.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.105 STREETS FOR COMMERCIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   Streets serving commercial developments and accessory parking areas shall be
planned to connect with arterial streets or marginal access drives so as not to
generate traffic problems. The intersections of driveways from parking areas
with arterial or collector streets shall be located so as to cause the least
possible interference with traffic movement on the streets. The location of
streets and driveways for business developments shall conform to the village
design criteria and construction standards and drawings.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.106 STREETS FOR INDUSTRIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   Collector streets for industrial subdivisions shall be planned to serve
industrial areas exclusively and shall connect with arterial streets so that no
industrial traffic will be directed into any residential street. Streets shall
be planned to be extended to the boundaries or any adjoining land planned for
industry, except when severe physical conditions exist or if the Planning
Commission finds such extension is not in accordance with the approved plan of
the area. The location of streets and driveways for industrial developments
shall conform to the village design criteria and construction standards and
drawings.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.107 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Utility easements. Public utility easements at least ten feet in total
width may be required along the rear, front and sides of lots where needed for
the accommodation of a public utility, drainage, sanitary structures or any
combination of the foregoing. Where deemed necessary by the Planning
Commission, an additional easement width shall be provided.
   (B)   Watercourses. The subdivider shall dedicate rights-of-way or provide
easements for storm drainage purposes which conform substantially with the
lines of any natural watercourses, channels, streams, or creeks which traverse
the subdivision or for any new channel which is established to substitute for a
natural watercourse, channel, stream, or creek. Such rights-of-way or easements
shall be of a width that will provide for the maintenance needs of the channel
and incidental structures as determined by the Planning Commission. Easements
shall be provided for the entire area of detention basins/retention ponds,
along with a 20-foot access easement.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.108 SIDEWALKS AND GRASS.
   (A)   Sidewalks shall be required on both sides of all streets except in
industrial.
   (B)   All sidewalks shall be constructed in accordance with the village
design criteria and construction standards and drawings. The developer who
constructs a sidewalk is responsible for curb ramps at intersections.
Homeowners will be required to install sidewalks on individual properties
within six months of finalized building construction (occupation of the
building).
   (C)   Two years after that particular phase of the subdivision is accepted,
sidewalks must be installed on all lots by whoever owns the properties. If the
sidewalks are not installed, the village will perform the installation and
assess the property owner for all cost incurred.
   (D)   Grass shall be required on all residential, commercial and industrial
lots.
   (E)   Property owners will be required to plant grass on individual
properties within one month of finalized building construction (occupation of
the building), unless weather conditions justify extension to a later date. Any
such extension will be requested by the property owner to the Village Council.
   (F)   Two years after that particular phase of the subdivision is accepted,
grass must be planted on all lots by whoever owns the properties. If the grass
is not planted, the village will perform the seeding and assess the property
owner for all cost incurred.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012; Ord. 20-25, passed 9-8-2020)
§ 152.109 BLOCKS.
   The following regulations shall govern the design and layout of blocks.
   (A)   The arrangement of blocks shall be such as to conform to the street
planning criteria set forth in this section and to the street design criteria
established in the village design criteria and construction standards and
drawings, and shall be arranged to accommodate lots and building sites of the
size and character required for the zoning district as set forth in the zoning
regulations and to provide for the required community facilities.
   (B)   The Planning Commission may require that the characteristics of blocks
bear close relation to the use of the land.
   (C)   Irregularly shaped blocks, those intended for cul-de-sacs or loop
streets, and those containing interior parks or playgrounds, may be approved by
the Planning Commission if properly designed and located and if the maintenance
of interior public spaces is covered by an agreement.
   (D)   No block shall be longer than 1,400 feet nor less than 300 feet and
the block width shall accommodate two tiers of lots, except where unusual
topography or other exceptional physical circumstances exist.
   (E)   Where blocks are over 900 feet in length, a public walkway easement
not less than ten feet in width at or near the halfway point may be required,
if necessary, to provide proper access to schools, recreational areas, and
other facilities. The Planning Commission has the authority to require an
easement of ten feet, five feet from each lot through the tier of two lots for
pedestrian access to school, playgrounds or other facilities. A sidewalk shall
be constructed. The width for a sidewalk shall conform to the village design
criteria and construction standards and drawings.
   (F)   All block corners at street intersections shall be rounded with a
radius of not less than 25 feet measured at the back of the curb.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.110 LOTS.
   The following regulations shall govern the design and layout of lots.
   (A)   The lot arrangement and design shall be such that all lots will
provide satisfactory building sites, properly related topography and the
character of surrounding development.
   (B)   All lots shall conform to or exceed the requirements for the zoning
district in which they are located and the use for which they are intended.
   (C)   All lots shall abut by their full frontage on a publicly-dedicated
street or a street that has received the legal status of such. The minimum lot
size, widths and setbacks shall be as specified in the zoning regulations.
   (D)   All side lot lines shall be as close to right angles as possible to
the street line and radial to curved street lines, except where the Planning
Commission determines that a variation to this rule would provide a better
layout.
   (E)   Lots with double frontage shall be avoided except where the Planning
Commission determines it is essential to provide separation of residential
development from arterial streets.
   (F)   All corner lots shall have front yard setbacks on both streets and
lots shall be of an area sufficient to permit adequate building sites.
   (G)   No lot shall have an average depth which is more than three times its
average width, nor shall it have a depth of less than 110 feet or as stated in
the zoning regulations except that, whenever a lot fronts upon an exterior
curved portion of a street, lot depth may be reduced to not less than 100 feet.
   (H)   In the case of vacation of lots, or parts of lots, in the village
previously recorded in the Office of the County Recorder, the same procedure,
rules and regulations shall apply as for a new plat, except that a preliminary
plat may not be required. The title of the vacation plat shall indicate what is
being vacated, and the final plat shall include enough of the surrounding plat
or plats to show its relations to adjoining areas.
   (I)   Whenever a subdivider or developer proposes a re-subdivision of a plat
previously recorded in the Office of the County Recorder, he or she shall
follow the same procedures as for a new plat, except that a preliminary plat
may not be required if changes in street alignment or similar changes are not
included in the proposal. The lots in the re-subdivision shall conform as to
size and arrangement with the requirements of these regulations and the
appropriate requirements of the zoning regulations of the village.
   (J)   When a preliminary plat is submitted, all lots shall have the front
building setback lines clearly marked on them.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.111 SURVEY MONUMENTS.
   (A)   A survey shall be made by a registered surveyor and shall conform to
the minimum standards for boundary surveys in the state.
   (B)   Iron pins shall be set at all exterior subdivision boundary corners,
lot corners, and intersections of change, at the point of curvature, and the
point of tangent of all curves and where the radius of direction changes. The
intent is to identify and establish all lines of the plat. All monuments or
iron pins shall be placed prior to village acceptance of improvements.
   (C)   Monument boxes with permanent markers shall be set at all street
intersections and center point of cul-de-sac. Railroad spikes shall be set at
all other point of intersections. If the point of intersections are not in the
paved area of the street, the railroad spikes shall be placed at the point of
curvature and point of tangent of all curves. In the instances of concrete
pavement, monument boxes shall be used where all railroad spikes are specified
above.
   (D)   All monuments and iron pins shall be set as shown on the final plat.
The size, location and type of material used shall also be shown. A
professional surveyor’s affidavit shall be filed in the plat volume and page,
and cross-referenced with the original plat when, for any reason, a monument or
permanent marker must be offset from the original location or the type of iron
pin is changed.
   (E)   Boundary lines shall be monumented at all points where there is a
change of direction and at all lot corners by suitable monuments as specified
in the minimum standards for boundary surveys in the state.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.112 STREET AND WALKWAY LIGHTING.
   The village is responsible for all equipment, labor and materials for all
street lights to be installed. All street lights shall be substantially similar
to those included in the Woodland Subdivision. Final determination on street
light acceptance shall be made by the Village Council.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012; Ord. 24-07, passed 2-29-2024)
§ 152.113 WATER SUPPLY IMPROVEMENTS.
   The subdivider shall install a public water system, if applicable, to
adequately serve all lots, including lateral connections to the public system.
Public water system extensions shall meet the requirements and approval of the
Ohio EPA and conform to the standards and specifications established in the
village design criteria and construction standards and drawings.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.114 SANITARY SEWER IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The subdivider shall install public sanitary sewers to adequately
serve all lots, including lateral connections to the public system. Public
sewer system extensions shall meet the requirements and approval of the Ohio
EPA and conform with the standards and specifications of the village design
criteria and construction standards and drawings.
   (B)   No individual septic system or combined sanitary and storm sewer shall
be allowed.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.115 DRAINAGE IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The subdivider shall construct all necessary facilities including
underground pipe, inlets, catch basins, open drainage ditches, and detention
basins or retention ponds as approved by the Village Administrator, to provide
for adequate disposal of subsurface and surface water and maintenance of
natural drainage course. The developer shall also provide all necessary soil
sediment pollution control. Design and construction shall be in accordance with
the design criteria and construction standards and drawings of the village.
Adequate provisions shall be included in design and construction to accommodate
all upstream and downstream drainage and, where necessary, extend all drainage
improvements to plat limits. It shall state on the final plat that all natural
watercourses, detention basins, retention ponds and appurtenances shall be
maintained by the property owner. An easement shall be provided to ensure that
there will not be any building within the drainage facility and to provide for
major maintenance and inspection. See the village design criteria for
inspection and ownership of detention basins.
   (B)   All lots shall be laid out and graded to provide positive drainage
away from buildings and shall be designed to assure adequate protection from
the concentration of stormwater run-off on adjacent property. No storm
drainage, including drain tile around basements, shall be permitted to
discharge into any sanitary facility.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.116 CULVERTS AND BRIDGES.
   Where natural drainage channels intersect any street right-of-way, it shall
be the responsibility of the subdivider to have satisfactory bridges and/or
culverts constructed. Where culverts are required, minimum requirements shall
be observed as follows.
   (A)   All culverts and bridges shall extend, at a minimum, across the entire
right-of-way width of the proposed street. The cover over the culvert and its
capacity shall be approved by the Village Administrator. Headwalls are
required.
   (B)   All culverts and bridges shall conform to the village design criteria
and construction standards and drawings.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.117 ELECTRIC, GAS, CABLE TELEVISION AND TELEPHONE IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Electric, cable television and telephone service shall be provided
within each subdivision. Gas service may be required where reasonably
accessible. Whenever such facilities are reasonably accessible and available,
they may be required to be installed within the area prior to the approval of
the final plat. Telephone, electric, street lighting wires, conduits and cables
shall be constructed underground unless otherwise approved by the village.
   (B)   Whenever a sanitary sewer, water main, or storm sewer, and electric
and/or telephone line are each placed underground in the same utility easement,
the following provision shall be applicable:
      (1)   The total easement width shall not be less than 20 feet;
      (2)   The sanitary sewer, water main or storm sewer shall be installed on
one side of the easement; and
      (3)   Electric, gas, cable television and telephone shall not be
installed within five feet of either sanitary sewer, water main, or storm
sewer.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.118 OVER-SIZED, OVER-DEPTH AND OFF-SITE IMPROVEMENTS.
   The utilities, pavements and other land improvements required for the
proposed subdivision shall be designed to incorporate any required over-sizing
and any extensions needed to provide service to nearby adjoining lands as
determined by the village.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.119 COST OF OVER-SIZED AND OVER-DEPTH IMPROVEMENTS.
   The subdivider shall be required to pay for all of the construction costs
for the installation of utilities that are serving the proposed subdivision as
determined by the village and the subdivider’s estimates. The village may elect
to have the utilities over-sized to service the surrounding areas, providing
the improvement is beneficial to the village. The village shall pay the
difference between the cost of the requirements of the subdivision and required
over-sizing improvements as follows.
   (A)   Water mains. A subdivider shall install water mains according to the
village’s specifications. The material’s cost difference between the minimum
required size of pipe and appurtenances, and over-sized pipe required by the
village, will be paid by the village.
   (B)   Sanitary sewers. A subdivider shall install sanitary sewers according
to the village’s specifications. The material’s cost difference between the
minimum required size of pipe and appurtenances, and over-sized pipe required
by the village, will be paid by the village. The construction cost difference
as determined by the Village Administrator for the minimum depth needed for
installation, and the greater depth of installation required by the village,
will be paid by the village.
   (C)   Storm sewers. A subdivider shall install storm sewers according to the
village’s specifications. The material’s cost difference between the minimum
required size of pipe and appurtenances, and over-sized pipe required by the
village, will be paid by the village. The construction cost difference as
determined by the Village Administrator for the minimum depth needed for
installation, and the greater depth of installation required by the village,
will be paid by the village.
   (D)   Streets. The type and composition of street paving and surfacing shall
be installed as per current village specifications, or county engineering
specifications where applicable, and shall be commensurate with the volume,
street classification, character, and general circulation requirements, as
determined by the village. The cost of materials for the paved surface and its
sub-base of an existing street, and any over-sizing cost in excess of the
owner’s required responsibility needed to meet the dimensional standards for
roadways, as shown on the Comprehensive Development Plan, shall be at the
village’s expense. The costs for the minimum street width, as required by these
regulations, including curb, gutter and sidewalks, shall be the developer’s
responsibility and at his or her expense.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.120 EXTENSION TO BOUNDARIES.
   The subdivider shall be required to extend the necessary improvements to the
boundary of the proposed subdivision to serve adjoining unsubdivided land.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.121 OFF-SITE EXTENSIONS.
   If streets or utilities are not available at the boundary of a proposed
subdivision, the subdivider will be responsible for extending those streets or
utilities, obtaining necessary easements or rights-of-way, and to construct and
pay for such extensions to serve the proposed subdivision. Such improvements
shall be available for connection by subdividers of adjoining land and become
the property of the village.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.122 NON-ANNEXED SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Any subdivision that lies outside the corporation limits of the
village but, is connected to any of the village’s utilities, must install all
utilities to meet these regulations and the village design criteria and
construction standards and drawings.
   (B)   If a subdivision is connected to any one of the village utilities, the
residents of that subdivision, at the time annexation is determined to be
possible by the village, must not oppose annexation. A statement to this effect
must be included with each property deed and recorded in the Office of the
County Recorder.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.123 RECORD DRAWINGS.
   Record drawings shall be furnished to the village before a final maintenance
inspection. The submittal of record drawings is outlined in the village design
criteria.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 152.135 RECORDING OF PLAT.
   No plat of any subdivision shall be recorded or have any validity until said
plat has received final approval in the matter prescribed in these regulations.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.136 REVISION OF PLAT AFTER APPROVAL.
   No changes, erasures, modifications or revisions shall be made in any plat
of a subdivision after approval has been given by the Planning Commission, and
endorsed in writing on the plat, unless said plat is first resubmitted to the
Planning Commission.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.137 SALE OF LAND WITHIN SUBDIVISIONS.
   No owner or agent of the owner of any land located within a subdivision
shall transfer or sell any land by reference to, exhibition of, or by the use
of a plat of the subdivision before such plat has been approved and recorded in
the manner prescribed in these regulations. The description of such lot or
parcel by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other documents
used in the process of selling or transferring shall not exempt the transaction
from the provisions of these regulations.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.138 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   (A)   The Village Council establishes the schedule of fees.
   (B)   The schedule of fees shall be posted in the office of the Village
Administrator and may be altered or amended only by the Village Council. Until
all applicable fees, charges and expenses have been paid in full, no action
shall be taken on any application or appeal.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.139 VARIANCES.
   The following regulations shall govern the granting of variances.
   (A)   When a subdivider can show that a provision of these regulations would
cause unnecessary hardship if strictly adhered to because of topographical or
other conditions peculiar to the site, a variation may be allowed without
destroying the intent of such provision. The subdivider shall apply in writing
to the Planning Commission stating the reasoning on which the departure is
justified and this application shall be processed by the Planning Commission.
Any variance authorized by the BZA shall be made by formal vote and a copy
thereof shall be attached to, and made a part of, the final plat.
   (B)   Any variance authorized by the Planning Commission shall be made by a
formal vote and a copy thereof shall be attached to and made a part of the
final plat.
   (C)   In granting variances or modifications, the Planning Commission may
require such conditions as will, in its judgement, secure substantially the
object of the standards or requirements so varied or modified.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.140 APPEAL.
   Any person, who believes he or she has been aggrieved by these regulations
or the action of the Planning Commission, has all the rights of appeal as set
forth in R.C. Chapter 711 or any other applicable section of the Ohio Revised
Code.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   The following penalties shall apply to the violations of this chapter.
   (A)   Whoever violates any rule or regulation adopted by the Village Council
for the purpose of setting standards and requiring and securing the
construction of improvements within a subdivision or fails to comply with any
order pursuant thereto is creating a public nuisance and the creation thereof
may be enjoined and maintenance thereof may be abated by action at suit of the
village or any citizen thereof. Whoever violates these regulations shall
forfeit and pay not less than $100 or more than $1,000 for each offense. Each
day such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. Such sum
may be recovered with costs in a civil action suit brought in the County Court
of Common Pleas.
   (B)   Whoever, being the owner or agent of owner of any land within the
village corporation, transfers any lot, parcel or tract of such land from or in
accordance with a plat of a subdivision before such plat has been recorded in
the Office of the County Recorder, shall forfeit and pay the sum of not less
than $100 or more than $500 for each lot, parcel or tract of land so sold. The
description of such lot, parcel or tract by metes and bounds in the deed or
transfer shall not serve to exempt the seller from the forfeiture provided in
this section.
(Ord. 12-23, passed 11-27-2012)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Title
   
153.002   Intent
   
153.003   Interpretation
   
153.004   Street frontage required
   
153.005   Construction of language
   
153.006   Definitions
   
153.007   Illustrations/exhibits
Establishing Districts And Zoning Map
   
153.020   Intent
   
153.021   Establishment of districts
   
153.022   Zoning district map
   
153.023   Interpretation of district boundaries
   
153.024   Zoning upon annexation
District Regulations
   
153.035   Compliance with regulations
   
153.036   Summary of zoning district requirements
   
153.037   Summary of permitted and conditional uses
   
153.038   R-1 Single-Family Residential District
   
153.039   R-2 Single-/Two-Family Residential District
   
153.040   R-3 Multi-Family Residential District
   
153.041   C-1 Downtown/Central Business District
   
153.042   C-2 General Commercial/Light Industrial District
   
153.043   C-3 Streetscape Business District
   
153.044   C-4 Special Business District
   
153.045   I Industrial District
Supplemental District Regulations
   
153.055   Intent
   
153.056   Accessory structures
   
153.057   Satellite dish antenna regulations
   
153.058   Radio and television antenna regulations
   
153.059   Buffer and transition between residential/commercial and residential/
industrial zoned properties
   
153.060   Principal building per lot
   
153.061   Required refuse collection areas
   
153.062   Fences, walls and hedges
   
153.063   Projections into required yards
   
153.064   Visibility at intersections
   
153.065   Temporary uses
   
153.066   Swimming pools/ponds
   
153.067   Home occupations
   
153.068   Residential design and appearance standards
   
153.069   Adult entertainment facilities
   
153.070   Mobile homes on individual parcels (lots)
   
153.071   Bed and breakfast inns
   
153.072   Automobile washing facilities
   
153.073   Wireless telecommunications facilities
Conditional Uses; Substantially Similar Uses
   
153.085   Contents of conditional use permit application
   
153.086   General standards for all conditional uses
   
153.087   Action by the Board of Zoning Appeals
   
153.088   Additional criteria
   
153.089   Public hearing
   
153.090   Notice of public hearing in newspaper
   
153.091   Notice to parties of interest
   
153.092   Procedure and requirements to determine that use is substantially
similar
Non-Conformities
   
153.105   Intent
   
153.106   Uses under conditional use provisions; not non-conforming uses
   
153.107   Avoidance of undue hardship
   
153.108   Single non-conforming lots of record
   
153.109   Non-conforming lots of record in combination
   
153.110   Non-conforming uses of land
   
153.111   Non-conforming structures
   
153.112   Non-conforming uses of structures or of structures and land in
combination
   
153.113   Termination of non-conformities
Planned Unit Developments (PUD)
   
153.125   Intent
   
153.126   Requirements
   
153.127   Permitted uses
   
153.128   Procedure
   
153.129   Preliminary development plan application requirements
   
153.130   Notice of public hearing in newspaper
   
153.131   Notice to parties of interest
   
153.132   Planning Commission to investigate
   
153.133   Final development plan application requirements
   
153.134   Additional requirements
   
153.135   Residential and commercial planned unit development minimum design
standards
   
153.136   Mobile home park planned unit development design standards
   
153.137   Industrial planned unit development minimum design standards
   
153.138   Expiration and extension of approval period
Off-Street Parking and Loading Facilities
   
153.150   Intent
   
153.151   General parking requirements
   
153.152   Off-street parking design standards
   
153.153   Determination of required spaces
   
153.154   Joint or collective parking facilities
   
153.155   Off-street storage areas for drive-in services
   
153.156   Parking space requirements
   
153.157   Handicapped parking
   
153.158   Off-street loading space requirements
   
153.159   Off-street loading design standards
Signage
   
153.170   Intent
   
153.171   General requirements
   
153.172   Definitions
   
153.173   Measurement of sign area
   
153.174   On-premise signs exempted from permit regulations
   
153.175   Signs requiring a permit
   
153.176   On-premise signs permitted in residential zones
   
153.177   On-premise signs permitted in business and industrial zones
   
153.178   Off-premise signs
   
153.179   Prohibited signs
   
153.180   Permit application procedures
   
153.181   Violations
   
153.182   Denial of permit
Amendments
   
153.195   Intent
   
153.196   Initiation of zoning amendments
   
153.197   Contents of application for zoning map amendment
   
153.198   Contents of application for zoning text amendment
   
153.199   Recommendation by Planning Commission
   
153.200   Public hearing by Village Council
   
153.201   Notice of public hearing in newspaper
   
153.202   Notice to parties of interest
   
153.203   Action by Village Council
Appeals and Variances
   
153.215   Intent
   
153.216   Administrative appeals
   
153.217   Variances
   
153.218   Application and standards for variances
   
153.219   Additional conditions and safeguards
   
153.220   Public hearing by the Board of Zoning Appeals
   
153.221   Notice of public hearing in newspaper
   
153.222   Notice to parties in interest
   
153.223   Action by Board of Zoning Appeals
   
153.224   Term of variance
Administration
   
153.235   Intent
   
153.236   General provisions
   
153.237   Village Administrator
   
153.238   Responsibilities of Village Administrator
   
153.239   Duties of the Planning Commission
   
153.240   Duties of the Board of Zoning Appeals
   
153.241   Village Council
   
153.242   Schedule of fees
Building/Zoning Permit Requirements and Enforcement
   
153.255   Intent
   
153.256   Building/zoning permits required
   
153.257   Recommended contents of application for building/zoning permits
   
153.258   Site plan required contents
   
153.259   Approval of building/zoning permit
   
153.260   Failure to obtain a building/zoning permit
   
153.261   Construction and use to be as provided in applications, plans and
permits
   
153.262   Entry and inspection of property
   
153.263   Stop work order
   
153.264   Building/zoning permit revocation
   
153.265   Complaints regarding violations
   
153.266   Notice of violation
   
153.267   Additional remedies
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited to as the Zoning Code of the
Village of Botkins, except as referred to herein, where it shall be known as
this Zoning Code.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.002 INTENT.
   (A)   The intent of this Zoning Code is to promote and protect the public
health, safety and general welfare of the village, in accordance with the
Comprehensive Development Plan and planning process that is reflected in the
contents of this Zoning Code and in the zoning map of the village by:
      (1)   Dividing the village into zones or districts within which specific
regulations contained in this Zoning Code control the location, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, and use of buildings, structures, and land for
residence, commerce, industry, or other specific uses;
      (2)   Regulating the intensity of land use through the control of the
amount of lot area on which construction is authorized and a determination of
the area of open space surrounding any human-made improvements upon the land;
      (3)   Facilitating the orderly, efficient, and appropriate growth and
development within the village;
      (4)   Protecting residential, business, commercial and industrial land
uses from encroachment by incompatible land uses that would not be conducive to
the public health, safety and general welfare;
      (5)   Regulating certain non-conforming uses of land, buildings and
structures;
      (6)   Promoting a pattern of rational land use relationships among
residential, business, commercial, and industrial uses for the purposes of
promoting the public health, safety, and general welfare; and
      (7)   Establishing development densities by zoning district that
economize the provision of water, sewer, streets and highways, fire and police
protection, schools, parks, recreation facilities, and other government
services.
   (B)   The intent is to implement this Zoning Code and its companion zoning
map, village design criteria, and construction standards and drawings of and in
various planning studies which have been or will be approved by Council from
time to time.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.003 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this Zoning Code
shall be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public
health, safety, convenience, order, prosperity and general welfare. It is not
intended by this Zoning Code to repeal, abrogate, annul, or in any way impair
or interfere with any existing provisions of law or ordinance, or with any
rules, regulations, or permits previously adopted or issued pursuant to law,
relating to the use of buildings and land. However, where this Zoning Code
imposes a greater restriction on the use of buildings or premises, or on the
heights of buildings, or requires larger yards, courts, or other open spaces
than are imposed or required by such existing provisions of law or ordinance,
or by such rules, regulations, or permits, the provisions of this Zoning Code
shall prevail and control.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.004 STREET FRONTAGE REQUIRED.
   Except as permitted by other provisions of this Zoning Code, all lots
created after the adoption of this Zoning Code shall have frontage on a public
street.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.005 CONSTRUCTION OF LANGUAGE.
   (A)   For the purposes of this Zoning Code, certain terms or words used
herein shall be interpreted as follows.
      (1)   PERSON includes a firm, association, organization, partnership,
trust, company or corporation, as well as an individual.
      (2)   The present tense includes the future tense.
      (3)   The singular number includes the plural and the plural number
includes the singular.
      (4)   The word “shall” is mandatory and the word “may” is permissive.
      (5)   BUILDING includes the word STRUCTURE.
      (6)   The words “used”or “occupied” include the words “intended,
designed, or arranged to be used or occupied”.
      (7)   The word “lot”includes the words “plot”or “parcel”.
      (8)   In case of any difference of meaning or implication between the
text of this Zoning Code and any caption or illustration, the text shall
control.
      (9)   Regardless of capitalization, definitions are standard.
   (B)   Terms not herein defined shall have the meaning customarily assigned
to them.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.006 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. An object or structure constructed or installed
on, above, or below the surface of a parcel, which is located on the same lot
as a principal object or structure, and which is subordinate to or serves the
principal object or structure, is subordinate in the area to the principal
object or structure, and is customarily incidental to the principal object or
structure. Among other things, ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE includes anything of
a subordinate nature attached to or not attached to a principal structure, such
as, satellite dishes, antennas, sheds, detached garages, decks and carports if
not attached. Except as otherwise required in this Zoning Code an ACCESSORY USE
OR STRUCTURE shall be a permitted use.
   ALLEY. See THOROUGHFARE.
   ALTERATIONS, STRUCTURAL. Any change, addition, or modification in
construction, use, or type of occupancy; any change in the structural members
of a building, such as walls or partitions, columns, beams, or girders.
   ANIMAL GROOMING. An activity where the principal business is domestic pet
hygiene including washing, brushing, shearing and nail cutting.
   ANIMAL HOSPITAL. Any building or structure used for treatment and care of
injured or ailing animals administered by a doctor of veterinary medicine
licensed to practice in the state.
   ANIMAL LIVESTOCK. Animals kept or raised on farms such as cattle, horses,
pigs, goats or sheep for personal use only.
   APARTMENT. Two or more rooms, designed for, arranged for, intended for or
occupied as a residence by one family.
   APARTMENT HOUSE. Any building housing three or more apartment units;
provided said units are the principal use of the building.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, PAINTING AND BODY SHOPS. Places where the following
services may be carried out: the sale of engine fuels, general repair, engine
rebuilding, rebuilding or reconditioning of motor vehicles, collision service
such as body, frame, or fender straightening and repair, and overall painting,
undercoating, rust protection, paint protection, and fabric protection of
automobiles.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. Any building used for the supply of gasoline,
oil or other fuel for motor vehicle propulsion, which can include space and
facilities for washing, polishing, greasing and servicing motor vehicles.
   AUTOMOBILE WASHING FACILITIES. Area of land and/or a structure with machine
or hand-operated facilities used principally for cleaning, washing, polishing
or waxing of automobiles.
   BARS, TAVERNS and NIGHTCLUBS. Establishments primarily engaged in the retail
sale of drinks, such as beer, ale, wine, liquor and other alcoholic beverages
for consumption on the premises. The sale of food may also be a part of the
operation.
   BASEMENT. A story all or partly underground, but having at least one-half of
its height below the average level of the adjoining ground. (See also STORY and
§ 153.007 Exhibit C.)
   BED AND BREAKFAST INNS. A residential, single-family dwelling or portion
thereof, which is owner-occupied, that has as a secondary use of the structure,
one to five guestrooms for rent. Guests shall not stay longer than 14
consecutive days. Breakfast shall be the only meal served and the kitchen shall
not be remodeled into a commercial kitchen. The facility shall be located in an
existing structure and a structure cannot be built for this purpose. The
operator of the inn shall live on the premises.
   BEGINNING OF CONSTRUCTION. The utilization of labor, equipment and materials
for the purpose of erecting or altering a structure.
   BLOCK. Property abutting one side of a street and lying between the two
nearest intersecting streets, crossing or terminating, or between the nearest
street and railroad right-of-way, un-subdivided acreage, waterway, or between
any of the foregoing and any other barrier to the continuity of development or
corporate lines of the village.
   BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS (BZA). The Board of Zoning Appeals of the Village of
Botkins, Ohio hereinafter refer to as BZA.
   BOARDING HOUSE, ROOMING HOUSE, LODGING HOUSE or DORMITORY. A building or
part thereof, other than a hotel or restaurant, where meals and/or lodging are
provided for compensation, for three or more persons and where cooking and
dining facilities are not provided in individual rooms.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, used or
intended to be used for the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, or
property.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the average contact
ground level at the front wall of the building to the highest point of the
coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof or to the ridge for
gable, hip or gambrel roofs.
   BUILDING LINE. See SETBACK LINE.
   BUILDING; PRINCIPAL. A building in which conducted is the main or principal
use of the lot on which such building is situated. Where a substantial part of
the wall of an accessory building is a part of the wall of the PRINCIPAL
BUILDING, or where an accessory building is attached to the main building in a
substantial manner, as by a roof, such accessory building shall be counted as a
part of the PRINCIPAL BUILDING.
   BUILDING SERVICES AND SUPPLIES. Facilities, including facilities for
plumbing and heating equipment, sheet metal shops, and similar uses.
   BUILDING/ZONING PERMIT. A permit issued by the Zoning Administrator for the
construction or alteration of any building or structure authorizing the use of
lots, structures, uses of land and structures, and the characteristics of the
uses.
   BUSINESS, PROFESSIONAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES. Uses that include, but
are not limited to, corporate offices; insurance; real estate; law;
engineering; architecture; management and consulting; accounting; bookkeeping
and investment; data processing services; advertising, commercial art and
public relations; news syndicates; travel agencies; personnel and employment
services; and detective and protective services.
   CAR WASH. See AUTOMOBILE WASHING FACILITIES.
   CARRY-OUT. A place of business where food and beverages are purchased for
consumption on or off the premises. These can include photo kiosks and
freestanding automatic teller machines.
   CEMETERY. Land used or intended to be used for the disposition of deceased
persons and dedicated for cemetery purposes, including crematories, mausoleums,
and mortuaries when operated in conjunction with and within the boundaries of
such cemetery.
   CHILD DAY CARE CENTER; COMMERCIAL OR PROFESSIONAL. Any place in which child
day care is provided, with or without compensation, for eight or more children
at any one time; or any place that is not the permanent residence of the
licensee or administrator in which child day care is provided, with or without
compensation, for at least eight children at any one time. In counting children
for the purposes of this definition, any children under six years of age who
are related to a licensee, administrator or employee and who are on the
premises shall be counted.
   CLINIC. See MEDICAL OFFICES AND CLINICS.
   COMMERCIAL ENTERTAINMENT FACILITIES. Any profit-making activity which is
generally related to the entertainment field. These facilities include motion
picture theaters; sports arenas; tennis, racquetball and handball courts;
health clubs; bowling alleys; and similar entertainment activities.
   COMMERCIAL OUTDOOR RECREATION FACILITIES. Any outdoor profit-making activity
which is generally related to the recreation field. These facilities include
amusement parks, drive-in theaters, carnivals, fairgrounds, golf driving
ranges, golf courses, miniature golf courses, racetracks, skating rinks and
similar outdoor activities.
   COMMUNITY-ORIENTED RESIDENTIAL SOCIAL SERVICE FACILITY. A state licensed or
authorized home for children or adults which is operated by the state or a
political subdivision or pursuant to a license issued by or to a contract with
the state or a political subdivision. COMMUNITY-ORIENTED RESIDENTIAL SOCIAL
SERVICE FACILITIES include the following categories: agency group homes for
children or adults, residential homes for children or adults, or residential
homes for children or adolescents 18 years of age or under, dependent or
neglected, who have not been adjudged delinquent, and who for various reasons
cannot reside with their natural family.
   COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT PLAN.  A plan, which may consist of several maps,
data, policies, and other descriptive matter, for the physical development of
the village which has been adopted by the village to indicate the general
location for proposed physical facilities including housing, industrial, and
business uses, major streets, parks, schools, public sites, and other similar
information.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use that is permitted, but only by application to the
Board of Zoning Appeals in each specific instance, and after determination by
the Board of Zoning Appeals that all regulations and standards of this Zoning
Code applying to the specific use in the particular location will be met, along
with such additional conditions or safeguards as the Board of Zoning Appeals
may prescribe in the specific case and circumstances, in order to prevent harm
or injury to adjacent uses and the neighborhood, and/or in order to improve the
public health, safety, convenience, order, prosperity, and general welfare.
   CONDOMINIUM. A building or group of buildings in which units are
individually owned, but the structure, common areas and facilities are owned on
a proportional, undivided basis by all of the owners.
   CONSTRUCTION TRADE FACILITY. These activities include heavy construction,
building, electrical, heating and air conditioning, masonry, plumbing, painting
and wallpapering, roofing, and glazing, but does not include salvage materials
or debris.
   CONVENIENCE STORE. Retail stores that cater to the motoring public where the
sale of food items such as hot or cold drinks, prepackaged foods and tobacco,
road maps, magazines and other publications; automotive maintenance items such
as brake fluid, oil, polishes, anti-freeze, and similar products; and other
retail items that may be readily purchased. A CONVENIENCE STORE may also sell
gasoline. This does not include drive-in or drive-through windows.
   CORNER LOT. See LOT.
   COVERAGE. The percentage of the lot area which is covered by any building or
part thereof.
   DAY CARE CENTER, FAMILY HOME. A private residence where care, protection and
supervision are provided on a regular schedule at least twice a week to no more
than six children at one time including the children of the adult provider.
   DEVELOPMENT PLAN. See COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   DISTRICT. A portion of the incorporated area of the village within which
certain regulations and requirements or various combinations thereof apply
under the provisions of this Zoning Code.
   DRIVE-IN. A business establishment so developed that its retail or service
character is dependent on providing a driveway approach or parking spaces for
motor vehicles so as to serve patrons while in the motor vehicle, or within a
building or structure on the same premises and devoted to the same purpose as
the DRIVE-IN service.
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof designed or used as the residence
of one or more persons, but not including a tent, cabin, trailer or trailer
coach, tree house, or a room in a hotel or motel.
   DWELLING; MULTI-FAMILY. A dwelling consisting of three or more dwelling
units including condominiums with varying arrangements of entrances and party
walls.
   DWELLING; REAR. A building designed for or used as the residence or sleeping
place of one or more persons.
   DWELLING; SINGLE-FAMILY. A dwelling consisting of a single dwelling unit
only, separated from other dwelling units by open space.
   DWELLING; TWO-FAMILY. A dwelling consisting of two dwelling units which may
be either attached side by side or one above the other, and each unit having a
separate or combined entrance or entrances.
   DWELLING UNIT. A building, or a portion thereof, designed for occupancy of
one family for residential purposes and having living, cooking, sleeping and
sanitation facilities.
   EASEMENT. Authorization by a property owner for the use by another, and for
a specified purpose, of any designated part of his property.
   EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS, ELEMENTARY, JUNIOR HIGH AND HIGH SCHOOLS. Public,
private and/or religious schools including grades K through 12.
   ELDERLY HOUSING FACILITIES. Residential developments specially designed to
house retired and elderly persons, and which may include a mixture of living
options, including apartments, group quarters, and nursing care facilities.
   ERECTED. Includes the terms built or constructed, altered, or reconstructed.
ERECTED also includes moving of a building or structure onto a lot or any
physical operations on the premises which are required for construction.
Excavation, fill drainage and the like shall be considered an operation of
erection.
   FACTORY-BUILT HOUSING. A factory-built structure designed for long-term
residential use, the components of which are essentially constructed or
assembled prior to its delivery to and installation upon a site. For the
purposes of this Zoning Code, FACTORY-BUILT HOUSING shall include the
following.
      (1)   MANUFACTURED HOME. A single-family dwelling unit designed for
transportation after fabrication, on streets, highways, land, air, or water and
arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling unit complete and
ready for occupancy after location on the site by wheels, jacks, or permanent
foundations, and connection to utilities and the like and which bears a label
certifying that it is built in compliance with Federal Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards. MANUFACTURED HOME is sometimes referred to
as a mobile home. Does not include camp or travel trailers.
      (2)   MODULAR HOME. An assembly of materials or products comprising all
or part of a total residential structure that when constructed is self-
sufficient or substantially self-sufficient containing plumbing, wiring, and
heating at the point of manufacture and which when installed constitutes a
dwelling unit except for necessary on-site preparations for its placement. All
factory-built housing shall be certified as meeting the State Building Code as
applicable to modular housing. Once certified by the state, MODULAR HOMES shall
be subject to the same standards as site-built homes.
   FAMILY. A person living alone, or two or more persons living together as a
single housekeeping unit in a dwelling unit, as distinguished from a group
occupying a boarding house, lodging house, dormitory or hotel.
   FENCE. Any structure, other than part of a building, of sufficient strength
and dimension to prevent straying from within or intrusion from without.
   FINANCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS. These facilities include banks, savings and loan
associations, credit unions, finance companies, loan offices, and safe deposit
companies.
   FLOOR AREA OF A NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. To be used in calculating parking
requirements, the floor area of the specified use excluding stairs, washrooms,
elevator shafts, maintenance shafts and rooms, storage spaces, display windows,
fitting rooms, and similar areas.
   FLOOR AREA OF A RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. The sum of the gross horizontal area
of all floors of a residential building, excluding garages, basement floor
areas, roofed porches, and roofed terraces. All dimensions shall be measured
between exterior faces of walls.
   FRONT LOT LINE. See LOT.
   FRONT YARD. See YARD.
   FUNERAL HOME. A building or part thereof used for human funeral services.
Such building may contain space and facilities for embalming and the
performance of other services used in preparation of the dead for burial; the
performance of autopsies and other surgical procedures; the storage of caskets,
funeral urns and other related funeral supplies; and the storage of funeral
vehicles, but shall not include facilities for cremation. Where a FUNERAL HOME
is permitted, a funeral chapel and residency shall also be permitted.
   GARAGE; PRIVATE. A detached accessory building or a portion of the principal
building used only for the storage of vehicles and incidental personal
property.
   GARAGE; PUBLIC. A building or portion thereof other than a private garage or
automobile service station used for equipping, servicing, repairing, hiring,
selling, or storing vehicles or similar equipment.
   GAS STATION. See AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION.
   GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES. These facilities include department, variety,
discount, home furnishing, grocery, retail sales and drug stores.
   GROUP HOME. A residential facility licensed and/or approved by the state
which provides residential services to individuals who are mentally retarded,
developmentally disabled, or physically handicapped, who cannot otherwise care
for themselves or who are convalescing or undergoing rehabilitation and/or
treatment.
   HEAVY EQUIPMENT RENTAL, SALES, SERVICE AND STORAGE. These facilities include
rental, sales, service, and storage of semi-tractor trailers, agricultural
equipment, and construction equipment.
   HOME OCCUPATIONS. Any occupation carried out for gain by a resident and
conducted as a customary, incidental and accessory use in the residential
dwelling unit. (See §
153.067.)
   HOTEL. A building occupied primarily as the temporary abiding place of
individuals who are lodged with or without meals and in which there are more
than 12 sleeping rooms or apartments.
   HOUSEHOLD ITEMS REPAIR SHOP. Repair of items normally found in the household
including, but not limited to, shoes, watches, clocks, jewelry, appliances and
similar items.
   INDUSTRIAL; ENCLOSED. Any industrial use conducted entirely within an
enclosed building of any size for the manufacturing, fabricating, processing,
heavy repair, servicing, or storing of motor vehicles, equipment, raw
materials, or manufactured products; provided that all such uses comply with
the nuisance performance standards as set forth in §
153.068.
   INDUSTRIAL; OPEN. Any industrial use which requires both building and open
area for the manufacturing, fabricating, processing, heavy repair, servicing or
storing of motor vehicles, equipment, raw materials, or manufactured products;
provided that all such uses comply with the nuisance performance standards as
set forth in §
153.068.
   JUNK YARD OR SALVAGE YARD. A place where waste, discarded, or salvaged
materials are brought, sold, exchanged, baled, packed, disassembled or handled,
including auto wrecking yards, house wrecking yards, used lumber yards, and
places or yards for storage of salvaged house wrecking and structural steel
materials and equipment, but not including such places where such uses are
conducted entirely within a completely enclosed building, and not including
pawn shops and establishments for the sale, purchase, or storage of used
furniture and household equipment, used cars in operable condition, or salvaged
materials incidental to manufacturing operations.
   KENNELS. Any lot or premises used for the sale, boarding, or breeding of
dogs, cats or other household pets.
   LIBRARIES. A public or private repository for literary and artistic
materials, such as books, periodicals, newspapers, pamphlets and prints, kept
for reading or reference.
   LOADING SPACE. An off-street space on the same lot with a building or group
of buildings, used for the temporary parking of a commercial vehicle while
loading and unloading merchandise or materials.
   LOT. A parcel of land of sufficient size to meet minimum zoning requirements
for use, coverage, and area, and to provide such yards and other open spaces as
are herein required. Such LOT shall have frontage on an improved public street
and may consist of:
      (1)   A single lot of record;
      (2)   A portion of lot of record; and
      (3)   A combination of complete lots of record, of complete lots of
record and portions of lots of record or of portions of lots of record.
   LOT AREA. The total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot which is
computed exclusive of any portion of the right-of-way of any public street.
   LOT COVERAGE. The percentage of a lot which, when viewed directly from
above, would be covered by a structure or structures including swimming pools/
ponds, accessory structures, or any part thereof, excluding projecting roof
eaves.
   LOT LINE. See §
153.007 Exhibit B.
      (1)   FRONT LOT LINE. A street right-of-way line forming the boundary of
a lot.
      (2)   INTERIOR LOT LINE. A side lot line separating a lot from another
lot or lots.
      (3)   REAR LOT LINE. The lot line that is most distant from, and is, or
is most parallel with, the front lot line.
      (4)   SIDE LOT LINE. A lot line which is neither a front lot line nor a
rear lot line. A SIDE LOT LINE separating a lot from a street is called a side
street lot line.
   LOT MEASUREMENTS. A lot shall be measured as follows.
      (1)   DEPTH.  The distance between the midpoints of straight lines
connecting the foremost points of the side lot lines in front and the rearmost
points of the side lot lines in the rear.
      (2)   WIDTH. The distance between straight lines connecting front and
rear lot lines at each side of the lot, measured at the front building setback
line.
   LOT; MINIMUM AREA OF. The total horizontal area within the lot lines of a
lot which is computed exclusive of any portion of the right-of-way of any
public street.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the Office
of the County Recorder, or a lot or parcel described by metes and bounds, the
description of which has been so recorded.
   LOT TYPES.
      (1)   CORNER LOT. A lot located at the intersection of two or more
streets. (See §
153.007 Exhibit A.)
      (2)   INTERIOR LOT. A lot with only one front yard on a street. (See §
153.007 Exhibit A.)
      (3)   THROUGH LOT. A lot other than a corner lot with a front yard on
more than one street. THROUGH LOTS abutting two streets may be referred to as
double frontage lots. (See §
153.007 Exhibit A.)
   LUMBER YARDS AND BUILDING MATERIALS SALE AND STORAGE. Buildings or premises
used for the storage and sale of lumber and building materials.
   MEDICAL OFFICES AND CLINICS. Offices of physicians, dentists, and other
health practitioners and medical and dental laboratories. Establishments
primarily engaged in outpatient care with permanent facilities and with medical
staff to provide diagnosis and/or treatment for patients who are ambulatory and
do not require in-patient care.
   MINI-WAREHOUSE. See SELF-SERVICE STORAGE FACILITY.
   MOBILE HOME. See FACTORY-BUILT HOUSING, MANUFACTURED HOME.
   MOBILE HOME COURT. A minimum of five acres comprised of mobile homes. Only
permitted as a Planned Unit Development within an R-3 District, with the
authorization and restrictions of the Planning Commission. (See § 153.136.)
   MOTEL OR TOURIST COURT. A building or group of buildings comprising
individual sleeping or living units for the accommodation of transient guests
not containing individual cooking or kitchen facilities.
   MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING. See DWELLING.
   NIGHTCLUB. See BARS, TAVERNS AND NIGHTCLUBS.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. A building, structure, or premises legally existing or
used at the time of adoption of this Zoning Code and which does not conform
with the use regulations prescribed by this Zoning Code for the district in
which located.
   NON-CONFORMITIES. Lots, uses of land, structures, and uses of structures and
land in combination lawfully existing at the time of enactment of this Zoning
Code or its amendments which do not conform to the regulations of the district
or zone in which they are situated, and are therefore incompatible.
   NURSERIES AND GARDEN SUPPLIES STORES. A space, including accessory building
or structure, for the growing and storage of live trees, shrubs, or plant
materials offered for retail sale on the premises, including products used for
gardening or landscaping.
   NURSING HOME. An establishment which specializes in providing necessary
health and related services to those unable to care for themselves..
   OFF-STREET PARKING. The provision of parking facilities for a specified use,
to be provided on the same lot or lots as the use they are intended to serve,
and not on any public street or public right-of-way.
   OPEN SPACE. The part of a lot, including courts or yards, which is open and
unobstructed by structures from its lowest level to the sky, accessible to all
tenants upon the lot.
   PARKING LOT. An area providing vehicular parking spaces along with adequate
drives and aisles, for maneuvering, so as to provide access for entrance and
exit for the parking of more than five vehicles.
   PARKING SPACE. The area required for parking one automobile in an area not
less than eight feet wide by 18 feet long, either within a structure or in the
open exclusive of driveways or access drives.
   PARKING SPACE; OFF-STREET. An area adequate for parking a passenger vehicle
with room for opening doors on both sides, together with properly related
access to a public street or alley and maneuvering room, but shall be located
totally outside of any street or alley right-of-way.
   PERSONAL SERVICES. Services of a personal nature including, beauty and
barber shops; individual laundry and dry cleaning establishments; laundromats;
photo studios and photo finishing; tailoring; clothing rental; and other
services performed for persons or their apparel.
   PET SHOPS. Any building or structure used for the sale, other than casual
sale, of domestic pets and pet supplies.
   PLACES OF WORSHIP. Establishments of recognized religious organizations
operated for worship or for promotion of religious activities.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD). Land under unified control, planned and
developed as a whole according to comprehensive and detailed plans, including
streets, utilities, lots, or building sites, site plans, and design principles
for all buildings intended to be located, constructed, used, and related to
each other, and for other uses and improvements on the land as related to
buildings. Development may be a single operation or a definitely programmed
series of development operations including all lands and buildings, with a
program for provision, operation, and maintenance of the areas, improvements,
and facilities necessary for common use by the occupants of the development.
(See §§
153.125 through
153.138.)
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Village of Botkins Planning Commission.
   PRE-EXISTING USE. An existing use of the type listed as a special use in the
zoning district that was lawfully established on the effective date of this
Zoning Code.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The primary or predominant use of any land or improvement on
it.
   PRIVATE CLUBS. An association organized and operated not for profit for
persons who are bona fide members paying annual dues, which owns, hires, or
leases premises, the use of which premises is restricted to such members and
their guests. The affairs and management of such association are conducted by a
board of directors, executive committee or similar body chosen by the members
at their annual meeting. Food, meals and beverages may be served on such
premises; provided adequate dining room space and kitchen facilities are
available. Alcoholic beverages may be sold or served to members and their
guests; provided such service is secondary and incidental to the promotion of
some other common objective of the organization; and further provided that such
sale or service of alcoholic beverages is in compliance with all applicable
federal, state, county and local laws.
   PRIVATE SCHOOLS. Private schools, including, but not limited to, business or
commercial schools, dance or music academies, kindergarten, nursery, play and
special schools other than educational facilities.
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICES. See BUSINESS, PROFESSIONAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES.
   PROTECTED USE. Uses are defined as:
      (1)   Religious institution, including a church synagogue, mosque, temple
or building which is primarily used for religious worship and activities;
      (2)   Residential district or use, including single-family, duplex,
townhouse, multi-family, retirement or nursing home, or mobile home park; and
      (3)   Schools, including any public or private educational facility, day
care facility, nursery school and preschool.
   PUBLIC OFFICES AND PUBLIC BUILDINGS. Establishments for local, county,
regional, state or federal government agencies.
   PUBLIC RECREATION FACILITIES. Parks, playgrounds, golf courses, sports
arenas, gymnasiums, community centers, swimming pools, skating rinks, tennis,
racquetball and handball courts, senior citizen and youth centers, arboretums,
hiking and jogging trails, ice skating rinks, nature areas, picnic areas, tot
lots, and arid wildlife sanctuaries, but not including commercial recreation
and entertainment facilities listed elsewhere in this Zoning Code.
   RECREATION VEHICLE. Includes travel trailers, campers, camp car, truck
campers, boats and boat trailers.
   RESTAURANT; FAST FOOD. An establishment whose principal business is the sale
of food and/or beverages in a ready-to-consume state for consumption within the
restaurant building, with a motor vehicle parked on the premises, or off the
premises, as a carry-out order; and whose principal method of operation
includes the following characteristics: food and/or beverages which are usually
served in edible containers or in paper, plastic, or other disposable
containers.
   RESTAURANT; STANDARD. An establishment whose primary business is serving
food and beverages to patrons for consumption inside the building.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land taken or dedicated for use as a public way. In
addition to the roadway, it normally incorporates the curbs, lawn strips,
sidewalks, lighting, and drainage facilities, and may include special features
(required by the topography or treatment) such as grade separation, landscaped
areas, viaducts and bridges.
   SATELLITE SIGNAL RECEIVER. Dish-type satellite signal-receiving antennas,
earth stations or ground stations, whether functioning as part of a basic
service system, direct broadcast satellite system, or multi-point distribution
service system, shall mean one, or a combination of two or more of the
following:
      (1)   A signal-receiving device such as a dish antenna whose purpose is
to receive communications or signals from earth-orbiting satellites or similar
sources;
      (2)   A low-noise amplifier (LNA) whose purpose is to boost, magnify,
store, transfer or transmit signals; or
      (3)   Not including telecommunications towers.
   SCREENING. The placement of landscaping or fencing on a lot in a manner to
reduce any negative effects resulting from the location of two or more
dissimilar uses next to one another.
   SEAT. For the purpose of determining the number of off-street parking spaces
for certain uses, the number of seats is the number of seating units installed
or indicated, or each 24 lineal inches of benches, pews, or space for loose
chairs.
   SELF-SERVICE STORAGE FACILITY. A building or group of buildings in a
controlled access and fenced compound that contains varying sizes of
individual, compartmentalized, and controlled access stalls or lockers for the
storage of customers’ goods or materials.
   SERVICE GARAGE. See AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, PAINTING AND BODY SHOPS.
   SERVICE STATION. See AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION.
   SETBACK LINE. A line established by the Zoning Code, generally parallel with
and measured from the lot line, defining the limits of a yard in which no
portion of any principal structure, other than accessory building, may be
located except as may be provided in said Zoning Code. (See YARD.)
   SIGHT TRIANGLE. A triangular space at the street corner of a corner lot,
free from any kind of obstruction to vision between the heights of three and 12
feet above the established street grade. The street grade is measured at the
intersection of the centerlines of the intersecting street pavements and the
triangular space is determined by a diagonal line connecting two points
measured 20 feet along each of the street property lines equi-distant from the
intersection of the property lines or the property lines extended at the corner
of the lot.
   SIGN. Any fabricated sign or display structure, including the structure
itself and any letter, figure, character, mark, point, plane, marquee sign,
design, poster, pictorial, picture, stripe, line, trademark, reading matter, or
illuminating device, which is constructed, attached, erected, fastened, or
manufactured in any manner whatsoever so that the same shall be used for the
attraction of the public to any place, subject, person, firm, corporation,
public performance, article, machine, or merchandise whatsoever, and displayed
in any manner for recognized advertising purposes.
   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING. See DWELLING.
   SIGNS. (See §§
153.170 through
153.182 for a list of definitions related to signage regulations.)
   STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there is no floor above it,
then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it. (See §
153.007 Exhibit C.)
   STREET. See THOROUGHFARE.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
permanent location on the ground or attachment to something having permanent
location on the ground.
   SWIMMING POOL. A structure constructed or placed below ground or above
ground, which contains water in excess of 30 inches in depth and is suitable or
utilized for swimming or wading.
   TAVERN. See BARS, TAVERNS AND NIGHTCLUBS.
   TEMPORARY USE OF BUILDING. The temporary use of land or a building permitted
by the Village Administrator during periods of construction, or for special
events. (See §
153.065.)
   THOROUGHFARE. The full width between property lines bounding every public
way of whatever nature, with a part thereof to be used for vehicular traffic
and designated as follows.
      (1)   ALLEY. A right-of-way used primarily for vehicular service access
to the back or side of properties abutting on another street.
      (2)   ARTERIAL STREET. A general term denoting a highway primarily for
through traffic, carrying heavy loads and a large volume of traffic, usually on
a continuous route.
      (3)   COLLECTOR STREET. A thoroughfare, whether a residential,
industrial, commercial, or other type of development, which primarily carries
traffic from local streets to arterial streets, including the principal
entrance and circulation routes within residential subdivisions.
      (4)   CUL-DE-SAC. A local street with one end open to traffic and the
other end terminating in a vehicular turnaround.
   TRANSPORTATION TERMINALS. Trucking and motor-freight terminals, express and
hauling establishments, rail terminals, landing strips and heliports.
   USE. The purpose for which land or a building is arranged, designed, or
intended, or for which land or a building is or may be occupied or maintained.
   UTILITY SERVICE COMPANIES. Utility buildings, telephone exchanges and
transformer stations or uses other than general offices.
   VARIANCE. A modification of the strict terms of this Zoning Code owing to
peculiar conditions or circumstances which apply only to the property in
question and no other. As used in this Zoning Code, a VARIANCE is authorized
only for height, area, yard or setback requirements.
   VEHICLE SALES, RENTAL AND SERVICE. The sales, service, and rental of new and
used cars, trucks, trailers, motorcycles, mobile homes, recreational vehicles,
snowmobiles, and boats. This does not include semi-tractor trailers, farm
equipment and construction equipment.
   VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR/ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. A person appointed by Council of
the Village of Botkins to handle the administration of the village. The Village
Administrator may be provided with the assistance of such other persons as
needed to administer this Zoning Code.
   WAREHOUSE. A building used principally for the storage of goods and
materials.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a main building, unoccupied and
unobstructed by structures from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided
in this Zoning Code. (See § 153.007 Exhibit B.)
      (1)   FRONT YARD.  An open space extending in full width of the lot, the
depth of which is the minimum permitted horizontal distance between the front
lot line and the nearest point of the main building. For corner lots and
through lots, all sides of a lot adjacent to streets shall be considered FRONT
YARD. (See §
153.007 Exhibit B.)
      (2)   REAR YARD. An open space extending the full width of the lot, the
depth of which is the minimum permitted horizontal distance between the rear
lot line and the nearest point of the main building. (See §
153.007 Exhibit B.)
      (3)   SIDE YARD. An open space between a main building and the side lot
line, extending from the front yard to the rear yard, the width of which is the
horizontal distance from the nearest point of the side lot line to the nearest
point of the main building. (See §
153.007 Exhibit B.)
   ZONE. The same as district.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR/VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR. The person authorized to issue
building/zoning permits and to enforce the Zoning Code of the Village of
Botkins, Ohio as designated by the Mayor.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.007 ILLUSTRATIONS/EXHIBITS.
   EXHIBIT A: TYPES OF LOTS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac94741886ad7cf3ffa6b56fe83d6fac0530d7a4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3538.png]
 
   EXHIBIT B: BUILDING - PRINCIPAL AND LOTS TERMS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac94741886ad7cf3ffa6b56fe83d6fac0530d7a4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3540.png]
 
Lots area: total horizontal area not including any right-of-way
Lot width: measured at building setback line
Lot coverage: percent of lot occupied by building
   EXHIBIT C: BASEMENT AND STORY
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac94741886ad7cf3ffa6b56fe83d6fac0530d7a4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3542.png]
 
   EXHIBIT D: EXAMPLES FOR ADDITIONS TO NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES
   (See §
153.111)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac94741886ad7cf3ffa6b56fe83d6fac0530d7a4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3544.png]
 
   EXHIBIT E: WALLS SIGNS AND PROJECTING SIGNS
   (See §
153.177(A) and (B))
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac94741886ad7cf3ffa6b56fe83d6fac0530d7a4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3546.png]
 
   EXHIBIT F: MARQUEE, AWNING AND CANOPY SIGNS
   (See §
153.177(D) )
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac94741886ad7cf3ffa6b56fe83d6fac0530d7a4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3548.png]
 
   ( A)    Signs shall not be located on or project over any right- of-way
except in a C-1 District in which it may extend three feet from face of
building on public property and six feet on private property or two feet off
the back of curb.
   (B)   Signs shall not be permitted to obstruct or adversely affect traffic
visibility.
   EXHIBIT G: FREESTANDING SIGNS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac94741886ad7cf3ffa6b56fe83d6fac0530d7a4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3550.png]
 
   EXHIBIT H: OFF- PREMISES SIGNS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ac94741886ad7cf3ffa6b56fe83d6fac0530d7a4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3552.png]
 
   (A)    Advertising signs will be set back from all right-of-way at least as
far as required front yard depth for principal buildings in the district, where
located.
   (B)   No advertising sign will exceed the height of the roof line of the
building.
   (C)   No more than two advertising signs shall be attached together.
   (D)   There shall be a 400 square feet maximum area per side of the
advertising sign.
   (E)   See regulations for signs near residential district.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
ESTABLISHING DISTRICTS AND ZONING MAP
§ 153.020 INTENT.
   The intent of this subchapter is to establish zoning districts in order to
realize the general purpose set forth in the preamble of this Zoning Code, to
provide for orderly growth and development, and to protect the property rights
of all individuals by assuring the compatibility of uses and practices within
districts.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002; Ord. 24-05, passed 2-29-2024; Ord. 24-06, passed
2-29-2024)
§ 153.021 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   The following zoning districts are hereby established for the village.
R-1 Single-Family Residential District
R-2 Single-/Two-Family Residential District
R-3 Multi-Family Residential District
C-1 Downtown/Central Business District
C-2 General Business/Light Industrial Business District
C-3 Streetscape Business District
C-4 Special Business District
I   Industrial District
 
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002; Ord. 24-05, passed 2-29-2024; Ord. 24-06, passed
2-29-2024)
§ 153.022 ZONING DISTRICT MAP.
   (A)   The districts established above, as shown on the official zoning map,
which, together with all data, references, explanatory material, and notations
thereon, are hereby officially adopted as part of this Zoning Code and hereby
incorporated by reference herein, thereby having the same force and effect as
if herein fully described in writing.
   (B)   The official zoning map shall be identified by the signature of the
Mayor and Village Administrator. If, in accordance with the provisions of this
Zoning Code, changes are made in district boundaries or other matter portrayed
on the official zoning map, these changes shall be made on the official zoning
map within 30 normal working days after effective date of the amendment.
   (C)   The official zoning map is to be maintained and kept up to date and on
public display in the Village Administrator’s office, accessible to the public,
and shall be final authority as to the current zoning status of lands,
buildings, and other structures in the village.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002; Ord. 24-05, passed 2-29-2024; Ord. 24-06, passed
2-29-2024)
§ 153.023 INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The following rules shall be used to determine the precise location of
any zoning district boundary unless such boundary is specifically indicated on
the official zoning map.
      (1)   Where district boundaries are so indicated as approximately
following the centerlines of streets, or street right-of-way lines, such
centerlines, street lines, or right-of-way lines shall be construed to be said
boundaries.
      (2)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they approximately
follow the lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be said boundaries.
      (3)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they are
approximately parallel to the centerlines or street lines of streets, or the
centerlines or right-of-way lines, such district boundaries shall be construed
as being parallel thereto and at such distance therefrom as indicated on the
official zoning map. If no distance is given, such dimensions shall be
determined by the use of the scale shown on the official zoning map.
      (4)   Where the boundary of a district follows a railroad line, such
boundary shall be deemed to be located in the middle of the main tracks of said
railroad line.
      (5)   Where the boundary of a district follows a stream, lake or other
body of water, said boundary line shall be deemed to be at the limit of the
jurisdiction of the village unless otherwise indicated.
      (6)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they follow or
approximately follow the limits of any village corporation, such boundaries
shall be construed as following such limits.
      (7)   Whenever any street, alley or other public way is vacated by
official Council action, the zoning district adjoining each side of such
street, alley, or public way shall automatically be extended to the center of
such vacation, and all areas within that vacation shall thenceforth, be subject
to all regulations appropriate to the respective extended districts.
   (B)   All questions and disputes concerning the exact location of zoning
district boundaries shall be interpreted by the Zoning Administrator. When the
Zoning Administrator’s interpretation is disputed, determination shall be made
by the Board of Appeals as described in §
153.216.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002; Ord. 24-05, passed 2-29-2024; Ord. 24-06, passed
2-29-2024)
§ 153.024 ZONING UPON ANNEXATION.
   Whenever any area is annexed to the village, the petitioner shall cooperate
and shall execute and deliver such documents as may be required by the Village
Council to rezone such area to the zoning category designated by the Village
Council. Any territory annexed to the village shall remain under the full force
and effect of the applicable township zoning regulations in place at the time
of annexation until such time as the village shall approve a zoning district
for the annexed land.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002; Ord. 24-05, passed 2-29-2024; Ord. 24-06, passed
2-29-2024)
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 153.035 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
   The regulations for each district set forth by this Zoning Code shall be the
minimum regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of
structure or land, except as hereinafter provided.
   (A)   No building, structure, or land shall be used or occupied and no
building, structure, or part thereof shall be erected, constructed,
reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered except in conformity with all of
the regulations specified for the district in which it is located.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this Zoning Code, no building or other
structure shall be erected or altered to:
      (1)   Provide for greater height or bulk;
      (2)   Accommodate or house a greater number of families;
      (3)   Occupy a greater percentage of lot area; or
      (4)   Have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards or
other open spaces than required in its district, or in any other manner be
contrary to the provisions of this Zoning Code.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this Zoning Code, no yard or lot
existing at the time of passage of this Zoning Code shall be reduced in
dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth in the district.
Yards or lots created after the effective date of this Zoning Code shall meet
at least the minimum requirements set forth in the district.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002; Ord. 24-05, passed 2-29-2024; Ord. 24-06, passed
2-29-2024) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.036 SUMMARY OF ZONING DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS.
         Minim   Minim um Minim um Minim um Minim um Maximu m          Minim um
Zoning   um Lot  Lot      Front    Side     Rear     Lot      Maximu m Per Unit
District Area    Width    Yard     Yard     Yard     Coverag  Height   (Square
         (Square (Feet)2  Setback  Setback  Setback  e6       (Feet)   Feet)7
         Feet)1           (Feet)3  (Feet)4  (Feet)5
                                                   Minim           Minim   Minim   Minim                   Minim
                                                   um Lot  Minim   um      um Side um Rear Maximu  Maximu  um Per
Zoning District                                    Area    um Lot  Front   Yard    Yard    m Lot   m       Unit
                                                   (Square Width   Yard    Setback Setback Coverag Height  (Square
                                                   Feet)1  (Feet)2 Setback (Feet)4 (Feet)5 e6      (Feet)  Feet)7
                                                                   (Feet)3
                                                                                                   35 or
R-1 Single- Family Residential                     9,000   75      25*     10      30*     35%     2- 1/   1,100
                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                   stories
R-2 Single-/ Two-Family Residential
                                                                                                   35 or
   Single- family dwellings and other permitted 8,000   60      25      8       25      50%     2- 1/
uses                                                                                               2
                                                                                                   stories 940
                                                   4,000   30 per
   Two- family dwellings                        per     unit    25      8       25      50%     35
                                                   unit
R-3 Multi- Family Residential
                                                   4,000   30 per
   Two- family dwellings                        per     unit    25      8       25      50%     35      940
                                                   unit
                                                   2,900                                           35 or 4
   Multi- family dwellings                      per     85      25      10      30      35%     stories 800
                                                   unit
   Other permitted uses                         11,000  85      35      10      30              35 or 4 1,100
                                                                                                   stories
C-1 Central/ Downtown Business                     None    None    None8/  None8/  108/20  None    40 or 4 None
                                                                   15      5                       stories
C-2 General Commercial/Li ght Industrial           5,000   50      35      108/20  108/30  None    40 or 4 None
                                                                                                   stories
C-3 Streetscape Business                           None    None    None8/  None8/  None8/  None    40 or 4 None
                                                                   / 15    / 5     / 20            stories
C-4 Special Business District                      40,000  100     50      50      50      70%     20      None
I Industrial                                       12,000  100     50      25**    25**    70%     40 or 4 None
                                                                                                   stories
*   Unless otherwise specified, the front and rear yard for all non-residential uses in an R-1 District shall be a
minimum of 40 feet
**   Except when abutting an R-District, it must be 50 feet
For definitions, see:
1   Lot minimum area of, see §
153.007 Exhibit A
2   Lot measurements; width, see §
153.007 Exhibit B
3   Yard; front yard, see §
153.007 Exhibit B
4   Yard; side yard, see §
153.007 Exhibit B
5   Yard; rear yard, see §
153.007 Exhibit B
6   Lot coverage, see §
153.007 Exhibit B
7   Excludes garage, porch and/or patio
8   When adjacent/abutting any residential district or use
 
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002; Ord. 24-05, passed 2-29-2024; Ord. 24-06, passed
2-29-2024)
§ 153.037 SUMMARY OF PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES.
Use
P =                                             C-
Principal/  R-1 Single- R-2 Single- R-3 Multi-  1        C-2 General C-          C-       I
Permitted   Family      / Two-      Family      Central/ Commercial/ 3           4        Industr
Use         Residential Family      Residential Downtown Light       Streetscape Special  ial
C =                     Residential             Business Industrial  Business    Business
Conditional
Use
                                                                                  R-2 Single-             C-       C-2 General C-          C-
Use                                                                   R-1 Single- / Two-      R-3 Multi-  1        Commercial/ 3           4        I
P = Principal/Permitted Use                                           Family      Family      Family      Central/ Light       Streetscape Special  Industr
C = Conditional Use                                                   Residential Residential Residential Downtown Industrial  Business    Business ial
                                                                                                          Business
Business offices
   Business, professional and administrative offices                                                   P        P           P
   Medical offices and clinics                                     C           C           C           P        P           P
   Mobile home park/court (within a PUD with restrictions)                                 C
Heavy industrial
   Enclosed industrial                                                                                                                           P
   Planned industrial developments                                                                                                               P
Light industrial
   Building services and supplies facilities                                                                    P
   Construction trade facility                                                                                  P
   Farm implement sales                                                                                         P
   Grain bins and grain elevators                                                                                                                P
   Heavy equipment rentals, sales, service and storage                                                          P
   Lumber yards and building materials sales and storage                                                        P
   Transportation terminals                                                                                     C                                P
   Utility service companies                                                                                                                     P
   Wireless telecommunications facilities                                                                                                        C
Public and recreational
   Cemeteries                                                      C           C           C           C        C           C
   Child day care centers, commercial or professional                                                  P        P           P
   Educational institutions, elementary, jr. high and high schools P           P           P           C        C           C                    P
   Hospitals                                                       C           C           C                    C
   Libraries                                                       P           P           P           P        P           P
   Museums                                                         P           P           P           P        P           P
   Non-commercial recreational facilities                          P           P           P           P        P           P
   Nursing homes                                                   C           C           C                    C
   Places of worship                                               P           P           P           P        P           P
   Private clubs                                                                                       P        P           P
   Public buildings of all types                                   C           C           C           P        P           C
Residential
   Bed and breakfast inns                                                                  P
   Boarding or lodging houses                                                              P
   Community-oriented residential social service facilities/group                          P
homes
   Elderly housing facilities                                      C           C           C
   Home occupations                                                P           P           P
   Multi-family                                                                            P
   Residential planned unit development                            C           C           C
   Single-family                                                   P           P           P
   Two-family                                                                  P           P
   Upper-story apartment                                                                               C                    C
Retail commercial and service
   Adult use cannabis/medical marijuana sales and cultivation                                                                           P
   Animal hospitals, veterinary clinics                                                                         P
   Arcade, pool halls                                                                                  P        P           P
   Commercial planned unit developments                                                                P        P           P
   Financial establishments                                                                            P        P           P
   Funeral homes                                                                                                P
   General merchandise stores                                                                          P        P           P
   Household items repair shop                                                                         P        P           P
   Kennels                                                                                                      P
   Nurseries and garden supplies stores                                                                P        P           P
   Personal services                                                                                   P        P           P
   Pet shops and animal grooming                                                                                P
   Printing, publishing, lithographing, binding and computer-based                                     P        P           P
establishments
   Private schools                                                                                     P        P           P
   Restaurants, fast food                                                                              P        P           P
   Restaurants, standard                                                                               P        P           P
   Tobacco sales                                                                                       P        P            
   Vehicle sales and rentals                                                                                    P
Road service and commercial entertainment
   Adult entertainment facilities                                                                                                                P
   Automobile, painting and body shops                                                                          P
   Automobile repair                                                                                            P
   Automobile service stations                                                                         C        P           C
   Automobile washing facilities                                                                       C        P           C
   Bars, taverns, night clubs and dance clubs                                                          P        P           P
   Carry outs                                                                                          P        P           P
   Commercial entertainment facilities                                                                 P        P           P
   Commercial recreational facilities                                                                  C        P           C
   Convenience stores                                                                                  P        P           P
   Motels and hotels                                                                                   P        P           P
   Self-service storage facilities                                                                              P
 
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002; Ord. 24-05, passed 2-29-2024; Ord. 24-06, passed
2-29-2024)
§ 153.038 R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of this District is to provide low to medium-
density, single-family detached dwellings, plus those public and private
facilities serving the residents of the area.
   (B)   Principal permitted uses.
      (1)   Residential uses.
         (a)   Single-family detached dwellings, including modular homes; and
         (b)   Home occupations.
      (2)   Public and recreational uses.
         (a)   Educational institutions, elementary, junior high and high
schools;
         (b)   Places of worship;
         (c)   Libraries;
         (d)   Non-commercial recreational facilities; and
         (e)   Museums.
   (C)   Conditional uses. A building or premises may be used for the following
purposes in the R-l Single-Family Residential District if a conditional use
permit for the use has been obtained in conformance with the provisions of this
Zoning Code - conditional use permits.
      (1)   Residential uses.
         (a)   Residential planned unit development; and
         (b)   Elderly housing facilities.
      (2)   Public and recreational uses.
         (a)   Public buildings of all types (Fire Department and Police
Department);
         (b)   Cemeteries;
         (c)   Nursing homes; and
         (d)   Hospitals.
      (3)   Business offices. Medical offices and clinics.
   (D)   Height and area regulations. The maximum height and minimum lot
requirements within the R-1 Single-Family Residential District shall be as
follows.
General Requirements for Dwellings
General Requirements for Dwellings
Maximum height             35 feet or 2-1/2 stories
Maximum lot coverage       35%
Minimum front yard setback 25 feet*
Minimum lot width          75 feet
Minimum lot area           9,000 square feet
Minimum per unit           1100 square feet
Minimum rear yard setback  30 feet*
Minimum side yard setback  10 feet
*   Unless otherwise specified, the front and rear yard for all non-
residential uses in an R-1 District shall be a minimum of 40 feet
 
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.039 R-2 SINGLE-/TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of this District is to provide a sound housing mix.
This District provides for an approximate medium density and recognizes the
development of other than single-family dwelling units on average size lots.
   (B)   Principal permitted uses.
      (1)   Residential uses.
         (a)   Single-family detached dwellings;
         (b)   Two-family dwellings; and
         (c)   Home occupations.
      (2)   Public and recreational uses.
         (a)   Educational institutions, elementary, junior high and high
schools;
         (b)   Places of worship;
         (c)   Libraries;
         (d)   Non-commercial recreational facilities; and
         (e)   Museums.
   (C)   Conditional uses. A building or premises may be used for the following
purposes in the R-2 Two-Family Residential District if a conditional use permit
for the use has been obtained in conformance with the provisions of this Zoning
Code - conditional use permits.
      (1)   Residential uses.
         (a)   Residential planned unit development; and
         (b)   Elderly housing facilities.
      (2)   Public and recreational uses.
         (a)   Public buildings of all types (Fire Department and Police
Department);
         (b)   Cemeteries;
         (c)   Nursing homes; and
         (d)   Hospitals.
      (3)   Business offices. Medical offices and clinics.
   (D)   Height and area regulations. The maximum height and minimum lot
requirements within the R-2 Two-Family Residential District shall be as
follows.
General Requirements for Single-Family Dwellings
and Other Permitted Uses
General Requirements for Single-Family Dwellings
and Other Permitted Uses
Maximum height             35 feet or 2-1/2 stories
Maximum lot coverage       50%
Minimum front yard setback 25 feet
Minimum lot width          60 feet
Minimum lot area           8,000 square feet
Minimum per unit           940 square feet
Minimum rear yard setback  25 feet
Minimum side yard setback  8 feet
General Requirements for Two-Family Dwellings
Maximum height             35 feet
Maximum lot coverage       50%
Minimum front yard setback 25 feet
Minimum lot area           4,000 square feet per unit
Minimum lot width          30 feet per unit
Minimum per unit           940 square feet
Minimum rear yard setback  25 feet
Minimum side yard setback  8 feet
 
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.040 R-3 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of this District is to provide a full range of
residential dwelling types. The requirements allow a more complete use of land
in the District and provide more flexible guidelines for development and
redevelopment efforts at a medium to high density.
   (B)   Principal permitted uses.
      (1)   Residential uses.
         (a)   Single-/two-family detached dwellings, including modular homes;
         (b)   Multi-family dwellings;
         (c)   Boarding or lodging houses;
         (d)   Bed and breakfast inns;
         (e)   Community-oriented residential social service facilities/group
home; and
         (f)   Home occupations.
      (2)   Public and recreational uses.
         (a)   Educational institutions, elementary, junior high and high
schools;
         (b)   Places of worship;
         (c)   Libraries;
         (d)   Non-commercial recreational facilities; and
         (e)   Museums.
   (C)   Conditional uses. A building or premises may be used for the following
purposes in the R-3 Multi-Family Residential District if a conditional use
permit for the use has been obtained in conformance with the provisions of this
Zoning Code - conditional use permits.
      (1)   Residential uses.
         (a)   Residential planned unit development; and
         (b)   Elderly housing facilities.
      (2)   Public and recreational uses.
         (a)   Public buildings of all types (Fire Department and Police
Department);
         (b)   Cemeteries;
         (c)   Nursing homes; and
         (d)   Hospitals.
      (3)   Business offices.
         (a)   Medical offices and clinics; and
         (b)   Mobile home park/court (within a PUD with restrictions).
   (D)   Height and area regulations. The maximum height and minimum lot
requirements within the R-3 Multi-Family Residential District shall be as
follows.
General Requirements for Two-Family Dwellings
General Requirements for Two-Family Dwellings
Maximum height             35 feet
Maximum lot coverage       50%
Minimum front yard setback 25 feet
Minimum lot area           4,000 square feet per unit
Minimum lot width          30 feet per unit
Minimum per unit           940 square feet
Minimum rear yard setback  25 feet
Minimum side yard setback  8 feet
   General Requirements for Multi-Family Dwellings
Maximum height             35 feet or 4 stories
Maximum lot coverage       35%
Minimum front yard setback 25 feet
Minimum lot width          85 feet
Minimum lot area           2,900 square feet per unit
Minimum per unit           800 square feet
Minimum rear yard setback  30 feet
Minimum side yard setback  10 feet
   General Requirements for Other Permitted Uses
Maximum height             35 feet or 4 stories
Minimum front yard setback 35 feet
Minimum lot width          85 feet
Minimum lot area           11,000 square feet
Minimum per unit           1,100 square feet
Minimum rear yard setback  30 feet
Minimum side yard setback  10 feet
 
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.041 C-1 DOWNTOWN/CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. This District is intended to provide an integrated collection
of structures and uses designed to supply a majority of the daily needs of
village residents.
   (B)   Principal permitted uses.
      (1)   Public and recreational uses.
         (a)   Places of worship;
         (b)   Libraries;
         (c)   Public buildings of all types (Fire Department and Police
Department);
         (d)   Non-commercial recreational facilities;
         (e)   Museums;
         (f)   Child day care centers, commercial or professional; and
         (g)   Private clubs.
      (2)   Business office uses.
         (a)   Business, professional and administrative offices; and
         (b)   Medical offices and clinics.
      (3)   Retail commercial and service uses.
         (a)   General merchandise stores;
         (b)   Personal services;
         (c)   Restaurants, standard;
         (d)   Restaurants, fast food;
         (e)   Financial establishments;
         (f)   Commercial planned unit developments;
         (g)   Private schools;
         (h)   Arcade and pool halls;
         (i)   Household items repair shops;
         (j)   Printing, publishing, lithographing, binding and computer-based
establishments; and
         (k)   Nurseries and garden supplies stores.
      (4)   Road service and commercial entertainment uses.
         (a)   Bars, taverns, nightclubs and dance clubs;
         (b)   Carry outs;
         (c)   Commercial entertainment facilities;
         (d)   Convenience stores; and
         (e)   Motels and hotels.
   (C)   Conditional uses. A building or premises may be used for the following
purposes in the C-1 Commercial District if a conditional use permit for the use
has been obtained in conformance with the provisions of this Zoning Code -
conditional use permits.
      (1)   Residential uses. Upper-story apartments.
      (2)   Public and recreational uses.
         (a)   Educational institution, elementary, junior high and high
schools; and
         (b)   Cemeteries.
      (3)   Road service and commercial entertainment uses.
         (a)   Automobile service stations;
         (b)   Automobile washing facilities; and
         (c)   Commercial recreational facilities.
   (D)   Height and area regulations. The maximum height and minimum lot
requirements within the C-1 Commercial District shall be as follows.
General Requirements for All Downtown Business Uses:
Maximum height             40 feet or 4 stories
Maximum lot coverage       None
Minimum front yard setback None
Minimum lot area           None
Minimum lot width          None
Minimum per unit           None
Minimum rear yard setback  10 feet
Minimum side yard setback  None
General Requirement When Adjacent/Abutting Any Residential District or Use
Maximum height             40 feet of 4 stories
Maximum lot coverage       None
Minimum front yard setback 15 feet
Minimum lot area           None
Minimum lot width          None
Minimum per unit           None
Minimum rear yard setback  20 feet
Minimum side yard setback  5 feet
 
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.042 C-2 GENERAL COMMERCIAL/LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. This District is intended to provide an integrated collection
of structures and uses designed to supply a majority of the daily needs of
village residents.
   (B)   Principal permitted uses.
      (1)   Public and recreational uses.
         (a)   Places of worship;
         (b)   Libraries;
         (c)   Public buildings of all types (Fire Department and Police
Department);
         (d)   Non-commercial recreational facilities;
         (e)   Museums;
         (f)   Child day care centers, commercial or professional; and
         (g)   Private clubs.
      (2)   Business office uses.
         (a)   Business, professional and administrative offices; and
         (b)   Medical offices and clinics.
      (3)   Retail commercial and service uses.
         (a)   General merchandise stores;
         (b)   Personal services;
         (c)   Restaurants, standard;
         (d)   Restaurants, fast-food;
         (e)   Financial establishments;
         (f)   Commercial planned unit developments;
         (g)   Funeral homes;
         (h)   Animal hospitals, veterinary clinics;
         (i)   Pet shops and animal grooming;
         (j)   Private schools;
         (k)   Arcade and pool halls;
         (l)   Kennels;
         (m)   Household items repair shops;
         (n)   Vehicle sales and rentals;
         (o)   Printing, publishing, lithographing, binding and computer-based
establishments; and
         (p)   Nurseries and garden supplies stores.
      (4)   Road service and commercial entertainment uses.
         (a)   Automobile, painting and body shops;
         (b)   Automobile repair;
         (c)   Automobile service stations;
         (d)   Automobile washing facilities;
         (e)   Bars, taverns, nightclubs and dance clubs;
         (f)   Carry outs;
         (g)   Commercial recreational facilities;
         (h)   Commercial entertainment facilities;
         (i)   Convenience stores;
         (j)   Motels and hotels; and
         (k)   Self-service storage facilities.
      (5)   Light industrial.
         (a)   Farm implement sales;
         (b)   Construction trade facility;
         (c)   Building services and supplies facilities;
         (d)   Lumber yards and building materials sales and storage; and
         (e)   Heavy equipment rentals, sales, service and storage.
   (C)   Conditional uses. A building or premises may be used for the following
purposes in the C-2 General Commercial/Light Industrial District if a
conditional use permit for the use has been obtained in conformance with the
provisions of this Zoning Code - conditional use permits.
      (1)   Public and recreational uses.
         (a)   Educational institutions, elementary, junior high and high
schools;
         (b)   Cemeteries;
         (c)   Nursing homes; and
         (d)   Hospitals.
      (2)   Light industrial. Transportation terminals.
   (D)   Height and area regulations. The maximum height and minimum lot
requirements within the C-2 General Commercial/Light Industrial District shall
be as follows.
General Requirements for All General Commercial Uses
General Requirements for All General Commercial Uses
Maximum height             40 feet or 4 stories
Maximum lot coverage       None
Minimum front yard setback 35 feet
Minimum lot area           5,000 square feet per unit
Minimum lot width          50 feet per unit
Minimum per unit           None
Minimum rear yard setback  10 feet
Minimum side yard setback  10 feet
General Requirements When Adjacent/Abutting Any Residential District or Use
Maximum height             40 feet or 4 stories
Maximum lot coverage       None
Minimum front yard setback 35 feet
Minimum lot area           5,000 square feet per unit
Minimum lot width          50 feet per unit
Minimum per unit           None
Minimum rear yard setback  30 feet
Minimum side yard setback  20 feet
 
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.043 C-3 STREETSCAPE BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. This District is intended to provide specific zoning for
commercial use properties in the village along State Street and Main Street.
   (B)   Principal permitted uses.
      (1)   Public and recreational uses.
         (a)   Places of worship;
         (b)   Libraries;
         (c)   Public buildings of all types (Fire Department and Police
Department);
         (d)   Non-commercial recreational facilities;
         (e)   Museums;
         (f)   Child day care centers, commercial or professional; and
         (g)   Private clubs.
      (2)   Business office uses.
         (a)   Business, professional and administrative offices; and
         (b)   Medical offices and clinics.
      (3)   Retail commercial and service uses.
         (a)   General merchandise stores;
         (b)   Personal services;
         (c)   Restaurants; standard;
         (d)   Restaurants; fast food;
         (e)   Financial establishments;
         (f)   Commercial planned unit developments;
         (g)   Private schools;
         (h)   Arcade and pool halls;
         (i)   Household items repair shops;
         (j)   Printing, publishing, lithographing, binding and computer-based
establishments; and
         (k)   Nurseries and garden supplies stores.
      (4)   Road service and commercial entertainment uses.
         (a)   Bars, taverns, nightclubs and dance clubs;
         (b)   Carry outs;
         (c)   Commercial entertainment facilities;
         (d)   Convenience stores; and
         (e)   Motels and hotels.
   (C)   Conditional uses. A building or premises may be used for the following
purposes in the C-1 Commercial District if a conditional use permit for the use
has been obtained in conformance with the provisions of this Zoning Code -
conditional use permits.
      (1)   Residential uses. Upper-story apartments.
      (2)   Public and recreational uses.
         (a)   Educational institution, elementary, junior high and high
schools; and
         (b)   Cemeteries.
      (3)   Road service and commercial entertainment uses.
         (a)   Automobile service stations;
         (b)   Automobile washing facilities; and
         (c)   Commercial recreational facilities.
   (D)   Height and area regulations. The maximum height and minimum lot
requirements within the C-3 Streetscape Business District shall be as follows.
General Requirements for All Streetscape Business Uses
General Requirements for All Streetscape Business Uses
Maximum height             40 feet or 4 stories
Maximum lot coverage       None
Minimum front yard setback None
Minimum lot area           None
Minimum lot width          None
Minimum per unit           None
Minimum rear yard setback  10 feet
Minimum side yard setback  None
General Requirements When Adjacent/Abutting Any Residential District or Use
Maximum height             40 feet or 4 stories
Maximum lot coverage       None
Minimum front yard setback 15 feet
Minimum lot area           None
Minimum lot width          None
Minimum per unit           None
Minimum rear yard setback  20 feet
Minimum side yard setback  5 feet
 
(Ord. 24-05, passed 2-29-2024)
§ 153.044 C-4 SPECIAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. This District is intended to provide specific zoning for the
sale and cultivation of adult use cannabis and medical marijuana.
   (B)   Principal permitted uses for retail, commercial and service.
      (1)   Adult use cannabis sales;
      (2)   Medical marijuana sales;
      (3)   Adult use cannabis cultivation; and
      (4)   Medical marijuana cultivation.
   (C)   Conditional uses. There are no conditional uses for this District.
   (D)   Height and area regulations.
      (1)   The maximum height and minimum lot requirements within the C-
4 Special Business District shall be as follows.
General Requirements for All Special Business Uses
General Requirements for All Special Business Uses
Maximum height             20 feet
Maximum lot coverage       70%
Minimum front yard setback 50 feet
Minimum lot area           40,000 square feet
Minimum lot width          100 feet
Minimum per unit           None
Minimum rear yard setback  50 feet
Minimum side yard setback  50 feet
 
      (2)   The District cannot be adjacent to or abut any residential district
or use.
(Ord. 24-06, passed 2-29-2024)
§ 153.043 I INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The purpose of this District is to provide for industrial and
other uses that by virtue of their characteristics should be isolated from
residential uses. These uses perform essential functions for the village
including employment and should be provided for in areas that are best suited
for industrial development by reasons of location, topography, soil conditions,
and the availability of adequate utilities and transportation systems.
   (B)   Principal permitted uses.
      (1)   Public and recreational uses. Educational institutions, elementary,
junior high and high schools.
      (2)   Road service and commercial entertainment uses. Adult entertainment
facilities (see § 153.069).
      (3)   Light industrial.
         (a)   Grain bins and grain elevators;
         (b)   Transportation terminals; and
         (c)   Utility service companies.
      (4)   Heavy industrial uses.
         (a)   Planned industrial developments; and
         (b)   Enclosed industrial.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Generally. A building or premises may be used for the following
purposes in the I Industrial District if a conditional use permit for the use
has been obtained in conformance with the provisions of this Zoning Code -
conditional use permits.
      (2)   Light industrial uses. Wireless telecommunications facilities (see
§
153.073).
   (D)   Height and area regulations. The maximum height and minimum lot
requirements within the I Industrial District shall be as follows.
General Requirements for all Permitted Uses
General Requirements for all Permitted Uses
Maximum height             40 feet or 4 stories
Maximum lot coverage       70%
Minimum front yard setback 50 feet
Minimum lot area           12,000 feet
Minimum lot width          100 feet
Minimum per unit           None
Minimum rear yard setback  25 feet*
Minimum side yard setback  25 feet*
*   Except when abutting an R District, it must be 50 feet
 
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
SUPPLEMENTAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 153.055 INTENT.
   The purpose of supplemental district regulations is to set specific
conditions for various uses, classifications of uses or areas wherein problems
may occur, in order to alleviate or preclude such problems, and to promote the
harmonious exercise of property rights without conflict.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.056 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this Zoning Code to regulate accessory structures
in order to promote public health, safety and welfare. It is the intent of
these sections to permit such uses to be established and maintained in a manner
which makes them compatible with principal uses and harmonious with uses upon
adjacent properties.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this Zoning Code, an accessory use or
structure shall be permitted in association with a principal use or structure
provided that:
      (1)   It shall be 50% or less of the gross floor area of the principal
structure in lots of five acres or more;
      (2)   It shall not contain or be used as a dwelling unit and shall not be
located in the front or side yard of any lot;
      (3)   It shall not exceed 18 feet in height and not exceed height of the
primary structure except in lots of five acres or more where the height shall
not exceed 35 feet; and
      (4)   It shall meet all yard requirements of the principal use, except
the structure shall be no closer than five feet to the side and rear lot lines,
no closer than five feet from a recorded easement, and no closer than ten feet
to the principal structure.
   (C)   All accessory structures require a building/zoning permit, except as
noted below:
      (1)   Sheds/utility buildings less than or equal to 150 square feet;
      (2)   Roof-mounted satellite dishes; and
      (3)   Radio/television antennas.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.057 SATELLITE DISH ANTENNA REGULATIONS.
   Satellite dish antennas shall be permitted as an accessory structure in all
zone districts and are subject to requirements as follows:
   (A)   Ground-mounted satellite dishes installed in residential districts
shall be limited to rear yard areas of the rearward portion of the lot or
parcel;
   (B)   Setbacks for all satellite dish installations shall be a minimum of
ten feet from any property line, a minimum of 15 feet from public rights-of-way
and of a sufficient safe distance from all overhead and/or underground power
lines as determined by the Village Administrator;
   (C)   Roof-mounted satellite dishes shall be limited to a maximum diameter
of six feet or less and such installations shall be located on the rearward
portion of the roof as viewed from the front yard. Roof installations shall be
mounted in accordance with manufacturer’s recommendations and be properly
secured to prevent damage from wind and snow loads;
   (D)   All satellite dish antennas shall be properly grounded, resistant to
lightning strikes and meet all National Electrical Code requirements;
   (E)   All satellite dish antenna systems shall be non-corrosive, designed,
engineered, and permanently installed to withstand wind and snow loads
specified by the Ohio Basic Building Code;
   (F)   Maximum diameter of any satellite dish shall not exceed 12 feet;
   (G)   Maximum overall height for ground-mounted satellite dish antenna
systems shall not exceed 15 feet;
   (H)   Placement of satellite dish antenna systems within any easement shall
be prohibited; and
   (I)   A building/zoning permit shall be required prior to installation of
any satellite dish antenna system. Installation instructions, sketches, site
plans or other documents shall be submitted in accordance with the Village
Administrator’s requirements, for the purpose of verification of each of the
provisions of this section. Small satellite dishes under six feet in diameter
may be placed anywhere on the property with the minimum height clearance of
seven feet and do not require a building/zoning permit.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.058 RADIO AND TELEVISION ANTENNA REGULATIONS.
   Radio and television antennas shall be permitted as an accessory structure
in all zone districts and are subject to requirements as follows.
   (A)   Ground-mounted antenna systems installed in residential districts
shall be limited to side and rear yard areas except for guy wires and antenna
elements.
   (B)   Setbacks for all antenna system installations shall be a minimum of
five feet from any property line, a minimum of 15 feet from public rights-of-
way and of a sufficient safe distance from all overhead and/or underground
power lines as determined by the Zoning Administrator. Placement of antenna
systems within an easement shall be prohibited.
   (C)   Roof-mounted antenna systems shall be located on the rearward portion
of the roof as viewed from the front yard and shall be limited to a maximum
height of 15 feet above the highest roof peak. Roof installations shall be
mounted in accordance with manufacturer’s recommendations and be properly
secured to prevent damage from wind and snow loads.
   (D)   Ground-mounted antenna systems in residential and commercial districts
shall not exceed a maximum overall height of 60 feet. Maximum overall height
for ground-mounted TV antenna systems shall not exceed 15 feet above the
highest roof peak of the principal structure or 60 feet total, whichever is
least.
   (E)   All antenna systems shall be properly grounded, resistant to lightning
strikes and meet all National Electrical Code requirements.
   (F)   All antenna systems shall be non-corrosive, designed, engineered, and
permanently installed to withstand wind and snow loads specified by the Ohio
Basic Building Code.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.059 BUFFER AND TRANSITION BETWEEN RESIDENTIAL/COMMERCIAL AND RESIDENTIAL/
INDUSTRIAL ZONED PROPERTIES.
   (A)   Under those circumstances where the development of either a single-
family residential project is proposed to occur adjacent to or abutting
property zoned and/or used for industrial or commercial purposes, or in the
case where an industrial or commercial project is proposed to occur adjacent to
or abutting property zoned or used for single-family residential purposes, the
owner or developer of the project must undertake improvements to provide for
the creation of a suitable transition and buffer between the non-compatible
uses. The purpose of the buffer is to obscure non-compatible uses and diminish
the impact that the industrial or commercial activity may have on the
environment found in the single-family residential area. It is intended to
protect the interest of the existing or future occupant of the residential
area. This requirement would only be triggered when new development occurs; it
does not apply to existing conditions.
   (B)   The following provisions shall apply with respect to screening.
      (1)   Screening shall be provided for one or more of the following
purposes:
         (a)   A visual barrier to partially or completely obstruct the view of
structures or activities;
         (b)   An acoustic screen to aid in absorbing or deflecting noise; or
         (c)   A physical barrier to contain debris and litter.
      (2)   Screening may consist of one of the following, or a combination of
two or more, as determined by the Village Administrator or Board of Zoning
Appeals, in the event of an appeal, variance, or conditional use:
         (a)   A solid masonry wall;
         (b)   A solidly constructed decorative fence;
         (c)   A louvered fence;
         (d)   A dense vegetative planting; or
         (e)   A landscaped mounding.
      (3)   Height of screening shall be in accordance with the following.
         (a)   Visual screening walls, fences, plantings or mounds shall be a
minimum of six feet high in order to accomplish the desired screening effect,
except in required front and side yards where the maximum height shall not be
greater than three and one-half feet. Fences in front yards are not permitted
to be solid fences. Plantings shall be minimum of four feet in height at the
time of planting.
         (b)   A dense vegetative planting with a minimum height of four feet
at planting and a mature height of at least six feet or greater, or a solidly
constructed decorative fence, shall be permanently maintained along the mutual
boundary of an accessory parking area and adjacent land zoned for residential
uses, except for the portion of such boundary located within a required front
yard.
      (4)   Screening for purposes of absorbing or deflecting noise shall have
a depth of at least 15 feet of dense planting or a solid masonry wall in
combination with decorative plantings. The height shall be adequate to absorb
noise as determined by Village Administrator in relation to the nature of the
use.
      (5)   Whenever required screening is adjacent to parking areas or
driveways, such screening shall be protected by bumper blocks, posts or curbing
to avoid damage by vehicles.
      (6)   All screening shall be trimmed, maintained in good condition and
free of advertising or other signs, except for directional signs and other
signs for the efficient flow of vehicles.
      (7)   The installation of the buffer and transition area must not
interfere with existing storm water drainage flow patterns or utilities which
may be located within easement areas, unless suitable measures are undertaken
to alleviate problems that might be caused by the installation of the buffer.
      (8)   The buffer must commence on the lot line between the subject
properties, unless precluded by insurmountable problems posed by the location
of utilities or easements, on the property which is subject to development. If
insurmountable conditions prohibit the commencement of the buffer and
transition area on the property line, the commencement shall occur in an area
as close as possible to the common lot line. The Village Administrator may
permit the installation of the obscuring wall on the opposite side of an alley,
street or right-of-way when mutually agreeable to the affected property owners.
      (9)   Outdoor storage of materials is not permitted in residential
districts. Outdoor storage of material shall be allowed in non-residential
districts; provided that such materials are enclosed and secured, and in no
case shall such materials be stored higher than six feet in height. All storage
and service areas shall be screened from view from the perimeter of the site
with fencing and/or view-obscuring landscaping not to exceed six feet from the
ground. Said fencing or landscaping shall be maintained in good condition by
the owner.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.060 PRINCIPAL BUILDING PER LOT.
   Only one principal building shall be permitted on each lot in any zoning
district, subject to the provisions established in each district. However, in
all districts permitting commercial or industrial uses, it is permissible to
erect more than one principal building devoted to such commercial or industrial
use on the same lot. The development of planned unit developments, as well as
approved site plans, shall also be exempt from this provision.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.061 REQUIRED REFUSE COLLECTION AREAS.
   The refuse collection areas provided by all multi-family residential,
commercial, and industrial uses for the collection of trash, garbage, and other
refuse shall be enclosed on three sides by a solid wall, fence, or shrubbery of
at least five feet in height, unless within an enclosed building or structure.
Provisions shall be made for regular and adequate vehicular access to such
areas for collection purposes, as determined necessary by the Village
Administrator. Storage areas of proper density in residential districts shall
utilize such additional screening as required in this Zoning Code.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.062 FENCES, WALLS AND HEDGES.
   In order to protect and screen property, prevent unintended access to
commercial and industrial sites, provide security and privacy to property
owners, provide a physical and visual barrier between different land uses,
define property lines, and improve the overall aesthetic appearance of a lot,
the following standards shall apply to all zoning districts.
   (A)   A fence, wall, hedge, or other barrier may be located in the rear or
side yard in any district, provided the following.
      (1)   In residential districts, the height of the fence, wall or barrier
shall not exceed six feet above the ground except when surrounding a tennis
court, where it shall not exceed ten feet in height, excluding post height.
Hedges shall not exceed eight feet in height.
      (2)   In non-residential districts, the height of the fence, wall, hedge
or barrier shall not exceed ten feet above the ground, excluding post height.
      (3)   A fence, wall, hedge or other barrier may not be located in any
utility easement.
      (4)   On corner lots, fences, walls or hedges which obstruct visibility
may not exceed three feet in height along the lot lines abutting the street.
   (B)   Special requirements for placing a fence, wall, hedge or other barrier
in a front yard in any district are as follows.
      (1)   The fence, wall, hedge or barrier shall be ornamental in nature,
meaning it does not enclose the yard, does not have a gate and is clearly
intended to decorate the yard rather than to contain it.
      (2)   The fence, wall, hedge or barrier shall not exceed three and one-
half feet above the ground, excluding posts.
      (3)   The fence, wall, hedge or barrier shall not be located closer than
three feet to the lot line along the street frontage nor shall it be located in
the required sight triangle of corner lots.
   (C)   All support structures shall face to the inside.
   (D)   All fence installation or modification requires a building/zoning
permit.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.063 PROJECTIONS INTO REQUIRED YARDS.
   (A)   Chimneys, flues, sills, pilasters and other similar features may
project into a required side yard a maximum of 12 inches. Roof overhangs may
extend into a required side yard, a maximum of 12 inches.
   (B)   No structure may project into a required front yard. However, steps,
not porches, may extend from the dwelling into the required front yard a
maximum of ten feet.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.064 VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   Vision clearance/sight triangle as defined in this Zoning Code is required
on all corner lots at the street corner. The Village Administrator is hereby
empowered to cause all obstructions to be removed in the interest of public
safety.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.065 TEMPORARY USES.
   (A)   The following regulations are necessary to govern certain uses which
are of a non-permanent nature. For such uses requiring a temporary use permit,
at least seven days before the instigation of such use, an application for a
temporary use permit shall be made to the Village Administrator, which shall
contain a graphic description of the property to be used, a description of the
proposed use, and a site plan, with sufficient information to determine the
yard, setback, parking, and sanitary facility requirements for the proposed
temporary use.
   (B)   Temporary uses of public land are exempt from the requirements of this
section.
   (C)   The following uses are deemed to be temporary uses and shall be
subject to the specified regulations and time limits which follow, as well as
the regulations of any district in which they are located.
      (1)   Real estate sales offices, which shall contain no living
accommodations, shall be permitted within any district for any new subdivision
for a period of one year, except that two extensions not to exceed six months
each may be granted if conditions warrant. Such offices shall be removed upon
the completion of the sales of the lots therein, or upon the expiration of the
temporary use permit, whichever occurs first.
      (2)   Temporary buildings, offices, and equipment and storage facilities
required in conjunction with construction activity may be permitted within any
district for a period of one year, except that six-month extensions may be
granted if construction is substantially underway. Such uses shall be removed
immediately upon completion of the construction or upon expiration of the
temporary use permit, whichever occurs first.
      (3)   Temporary sales and services may be permitted within parking areas
within any commercial district. A building/zoning permit valid for a period not
to exceed four consecutive days shall only be issued three times within any 12-
month period to any individual or organization. The application for the
temporary use permit shall be accompanied by written permission of the property
owners and shall be prominently displayed at the site. The Village
Administrator shall not issue a permit for such temporary use if he or she
determines that it encroaches upon more than 25% of the required parking area.
      (4)   Temporary retail sales and services, such as the sale of plants,
flowers, arts and crafts, farm produce, or similar items on lots other than
parking lots, including any lot on which an existing business is operating or
on which a business is vacated, may be permitted for any for-profit individuals
or organizations in any commercial district. A temporary use permit valid for a
period not to exceed two consecutive days shall only be issued three separate
times for any particular lot within any 12-month period, and not more than one
permit may be issued at the same time for any lot. The applicant must submit a
current vendor’s license or transient vendor’s license, and a written statement
from the property owner giving permission for such use. This section shall not
be interpreted to prohibit any such use in any case where a valid covenant or
deed restriction specifically authorizes such use. In any case, the temporary
use permit shall be prominently displayed at the site.
      (5)   Garage sales, which for the purposes of this section shall include
yard sales, barn sales and similar activities, may be permitted within any
district in which dwellings are permitted. Any individual or family may conduct
two such sales within any 12-month period upon the property at which he or she
reside for a period not to exceed three consecutive days without obtaining a
temporary use permit, so long as the provisions of this Zoning Code pertaining
to signs and parking are observed. Garage sale permits shall only be issued to
groups of families, neighborhood organizations, and community organizations two
times within any 12-month period and shall not exceed a period of three
consecutive days, so long as the provisions of this Zoning Code pertaining to
signs and parking are observed.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.066 SWIMMING POOLS/PONDS.
   Swimming pools or ponds in excess of 30 inches in depth shall comply with
the following requirements:
   (A)   The swimming pool/pond is intended to be used and is used solely for
the enjoyment of the occupants of the property on which it is located and their
guests;
   (B)   The swimming pool/pond may be located anywhere on the premises except
in required side or front yards; provided that it shall not be located closer
than five feet to any rear or side rear property line or easement and/or
directly under any type of electrical wiring;
   (C)   The swimming pool/pond, or the entire property upon which it is
located, shall be walled or fenced in such a manner as to prevent uncontrolled
access by children from the street and from adjacent properties. Fence shall be
at least six feet in height, and it shall be maintained in good condition with
a self-closing, latching gate and lock. Aboveground pools that have integral
fences or railings and have a swing up securing/locking ladder is acceptable in
lieu of fence; and
   (D)   All swimming pools/ponds require a building/zoning permit.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.067 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Home occupations are accessory uses in the R-1, R-2 and R-3 Districts.
   (B)   Only members of the immediate family occupying such dwelling shall be
employed in such occupation.
   (C)   The use of the dwelling unit for the home occupation shall be clearly
subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its occupants, and not more
than 25% of the floor of the principal structure shall be used in conducting
the home occupation.
   (D)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the building or
premises, or other visible evidence of conducting the home occupation other
than one sign, not exceeding four square feet in area, non-illuminated, and
mounted flat against the wall of the building.
   (E)   No electrical or mechanical equipment shall be used except such as may
be used for domestic or household purposes. In addition, electrical or
mechanical equipment which creates visible or audible interference in radio or
television receivers or causes fluctuation in line voltage outside the dwelling
unit or which creates noise not normally associated with residential uses shall
be prohibited.
   (F)   No offensive noise, vibration, smoke, or other particulate matter,
odorous matter, heat, humidity, glare, or other objectionable effect shall be
produced therein or therefrom.
   (G)   No additional parking demand shall be created.
   (H)   Examples of prohibited home occupations include, but are not limited
to, the following:
      (1)   Appliance repair;
      (2)   Light assembly, manufacturing or fabricating;
      (3)   Motor vehicle repair, painting or body work, including
reupholstery, detailing or washing;
      (4)   Small engine repair, lawn and garden equipment repair;
      (5)   Veterinary offices and kennels; and
      (6)   Warehousing of any type; and welding or machine shop.
   (I)   All owners of home occupations shall register for village income tax.
   (J)   No home occupations shall be conducted in any accessory building.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.068 RESIDENTIAL DESIGN AND APPEARANCE STANDARDS.
   Single-family, two-family and multi-family residential dwellings, whether of
modular or site-built construction, shall comply with the following design and
appearance standards.
   (A)   The structure shall be installed upon and properly attached to a
foundation system that provides adequate support of the structure’s vertical
and horizontal loads, and transfers these and other imposed forces, without
failure, from the structure to the undisturbed ground below the frost line.
   (B)   Minimum roof pitch requirements entailing a four-inch vertical rise
for each 12 inches of horizontal run.
   (C)   Roofing material shall be either wood shingle, wood shake, synthetic
or composite shingle, ceramic tile, concrete tile, asphalt, or fiberglass
shingle (no corrugated metal or corrugated fiberglass).
   (D)   Exterior siding shall be one or a combination of materials such as
brick, stone, stucco, clapboard or clapboard-simulated vinyl or metal, wood
shingles, shakes, or similar material (no smooth, ribbed, or corrugated metal,
fiberglass, or plastic); siding must extend to the ground level, or to the top
of the foundation when a solid concrete or masonry perimeter foundation is
used.
   (E)   Structure size shall be a minimum width of 25 feet.
   (F)   Attached enclosed garages with overhead doors for single-family and
two-family residences for each dwelling are required on all new structures.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.069 ADULT ENTERTAINMENT FACILITIES.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of this Zoning Code is to regulate adult uses, also
known as sexually-oriented businesses, through the application of uniform
zoning and licensing requirements to promote the health, safety, morals, and
general welfare of the citizens of the village and to establish reasonable and
uniform regulations for the operation of sexually-oriented businesses with the
goal of reducing or eliminating the adverse secondary effects associated with
sexually-oriented businesses. It is not the intent of this Zoning Code to limit
or restrict the content of communicative materials, including sexually-oriented
materials. Similarly, it is not the intent nor effect of this Zoning Code to
restrict or deny access by adults to materials protected by the first
amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually-
oriented entertainment to their intended market.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ADULT USES, SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES or ADULT ENTERTAINMENT FACILITY.
Businesses defined as below.
         (a)   ADULT BOOK STORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A
commercial establishment which devotes a significant portion of its interior
business or advertising (25% or more of its retail floor space) to the sale or
rental, for any form of consideration, or any one or more of the following:
            1.   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, DVD, CD-ROM, slides, or
other visual representations which are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical area as
defined herein; or
            2.   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for
use or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse.
         (b)   ADULT CABARET. A night club, bar, restaurant or similar
commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are served, which
regularly features persons who appear nude or semi-nude; live performances
which are characterized by the exposure of specified anatomical area or by
specified sexual activities, or films, motion pictures, video cassettes, DVD,
CD-ROM, slides, or other photographic reproductions which are characterized by
the exposure of specified anatomical area or by specified sexual activities.
         (c)   ADULT MOTEL. A motel, hotel or similar commercial establishment
which offers public accommodation, for any form of consideration, which
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, DVD, CD-ROM, slide or other photographic
reproductions which are characterized by the exposure of specified anatomical
area or by specified sexual activities.
         (d)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, DVD, CD-ROM, slide or similar
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the exposure of specified
anatomical area or by specified sexual activities are shown for any form of
consideration.
         (e)   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar
commercial establishment which, for any form of consideration, regularly
features persons, who appear in a state of nudity or live performances which
are characterized by the exposure of specified anatomical area or by specified
sexual activities.
         (f)   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes,
offers to furnish or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary
business purposes for any form of consideration.
         (g)   MASSAGE PARLOR. Any place where, for any form of consideration,
massage, alcohol rub, administration of fomentations, electric or magnetic
treatments, or any other treatment manipulation of the human body which occurs
as a part of or in connection with specified sexual activities, or, where any
person providing such treatment, manipulation, or service related thereto,
exposes his or her specified anatomical areas. This definition shall not
include the practice of massage in any licensed hospital, nor by any licensed
hospital, licensed physician, chiropractor or osteopathy; nor by any nurse or
technician working under the supervision of a license physician, chiropractor,
or osteopath; nor by any trainers for amateur, semi-professional, or
professional athlete or athletic team or school athletic program; nor by any
license massage therapist licensed in the state pursuant to R.C. § 4731.15.
         (h)   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person, who regularly
appears in a state of nudity or displays specified anatomical area is provided
for any form of consideration to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted,
sculptured, photographed or similarly depicted.
         (i)   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT. A commercial establishment that,
as one of its primary business purposes, offers for any form of consideration,
a place where people may congregate, associate, or consort for the purpose of
sexually specified activities or the exposure of specified anatomical areas or
activities where one of more of the persons is in a state of nudity. This
definition shall not include an establishment where a medical practitioner,
psychiatrist or similar professional persons licensed by the state engages in
medically approved and recognized sexual therapy.
      EMPLOYEE. A person who works or performs in and/or for a sexually-
oriented business, regardless of whether or not said person is paid a salary,
wage, or other compensation by the operator of said business.
      ESCORT. A person, who, for any form of consideration, agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
      ESTABLISHMENT. Any of the following:
         (a)   The opening or commencement of any sexually-oriented business as
a new business;
         (b)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a
sexually-oriented business, to any of the sexually-oriented businesses defined
in this Zoning Code;
         (c)   The addition of any of the sexually-oriented businesses defined
in this Zoning Code to any other existing sexually-oriented business; or
         (d)   The relocation of any such sexually-oriented business.
      NUDITY or STATE OF NUDITY. The showing, representation, or depiction of
human male or female genitals, pubic area, or buttocks with less than a full,
opaque covering; or of a female breast with less than a full, opaque covering
of any portion thereof below the top of the nipple, or of covered male genitals
in a discernibly turgid state.
      OPAQUE. Not allowing visibility through.
      OPERATOR. The owner, permit holder, custodian, manager, operator, or
person in charge of any permitted or licensed premises.
      PERMITTED OR LICENSED PREMISES. Any premises that requires a license and/
or permit and that is classified as a sexually-oriented business.
      PERMITTEE and/or LICENSEE. A person in whose name a permit and/or license
to operate a sexually-oriented business has been issued, as well as the
individual listed as an applicant on the application for a permit and/or
license.
      PROTECTED USES. The uses listed below.
         (a)   RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION. Any church, synagogue, mosque, temple or
building which is used primarily for religious worship and related religious
activities.
         (b)   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT OR USE. A single-family, duplex, townhouse,
multiple-family, retirement or nursing home, or mobile home park.
         (c)   SCHOOL. Any public or private educational facility, including
but not limited to, child day care facilities, nursery schools, preschools,
kindergartens, elementary schools, primary schools, vocational schools,
secondary schools, continuation schools, special education schools, junior
colleges and universities. SCHOOL includes the school grounds, but does not
include any facilities used primarily for another purpose and only incidentally
as a SCHOOL.
      SEMI-NUDE. A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region and areolae of the female breast, as well as portions of
the body covered by supporting straps or devices.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Less than completely and opaquely covered
human genitals, pubic region, buttocks, anus or female breasts below a point
immediately above the top of the areolae; or human male genitals in a
discernable turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
         (a)   The fondling or other intentional touching of human genitals,
pubic region, buttocks, anus or female breasts;
         (b)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy;
         (c)   Masturbation, actual or simulated; or
         (d)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
      SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTS. Sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse,
rape, gross sexual imposition and other crimes connected with sexually-oriented
businesses including, but not limited, to distribution of obscenity or other
material harmful to minors, pandering, prostitution, tax violations in
connection with a sexually-oriented business, or acts prohibited by R.C. §§
2907.24, 2907.241 or 2907.25.
      SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF A SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. Increase in the
floor area occupied by the business by more than 15%, as the floor area exists
as of the adoption of this Zoning Code.
      TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS.
         (a)   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
         (b)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling
interest in the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
         (c)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal
device which transfers ownership or control of the business, except for
transfer by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of a person
possessing the ownership or control.
   (C)   Establishment and classification of regulated businesses.
      (1)   Adult uses shall be established only in zoning districts where they
are primarily permitted.
      (2)   A sexually-oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use
is not rendered non-conforming by the subsequent location of a protected use
within 1,000 feet of the sexually-oriented business unless its permit and/or
license has expired or been revoked.
   (D)   Permit required.
      (1)   No sexually-oriented business shall be permitted to operate without
a valid sexually-oriented business permit issued by the village. Operation of
such a business without a permit is a misdemeanor.
      (2)   The Village Administrator and Police Chief are jointly responsible
for granting, denying, revoking, renewing, suspending and canceling permits for
proposed or existing sexually-oriented businesses. To be approved, applications
must comply with all the locational and zoning requirements of the village.
      (3)   Applications must be made on a form provided by the village.
Applicants must provide an original and two copies of a sworn application which
must contain the following information and documents:
         (a)   If the applicant is:
            1.   An individual; the individual’s legal name, aliases and proof
of age over 18 by birth certificate or driver’s license, and Social Security
number;
            2.   A partnership; the complete name, all partner’s names and a
copy of any partnership agreement; or
            3.   A corporation; its complete name, date of corporation; names
of all officers, directors and stockholders owning 10% or more of the shares,
name and address of its registered agent, and evidence of good standing under
state law.
         (b)   The name of the sexually-oriented business if different from the
applicant’s name and any registration documents;
         (c)   Whether the applicant or other individual(s) named in the
application has been convicted of a misdemeanor criminal act within the five
years immediately preceding the application date, or any felony regardless of
the date of conviction, and, if so, the act involved and the date and place of
the conviction;
         (d)   Whether the applicant or other individual(s) named in the
application has had a sexually-oriented business permit revoked, suspended, or
denied and the name of the business, the municipality or county of occurrence,
and the date on which the permit was suspended, revoked, or denied;
         (e)   Whether the applicant or other individual(s) named in the
application held any other sexually-oriented business permits and the names and
locations of all other such businesses;
         (f)   The proposed location of the business, including a legal
description of the property, street address and telephone number;
         (g)   The business and residential addresses and telephone numbers of
the applicant and other individuals named in the application. If the applicant
or other individual(s) named in the application has been at his, her or its
current address for less than five years, then all business and residential
addresses of each individual for five years prior to the date of application
must be included and the dates he or she was at each address indicated.
         (h)   The driver’s license number, Social Security number, tax
identification number, and recent photograph of the applicant and other
individual(s) named in the application;
         (i)   A current certificate and straight line drawing prepared by a
registered land surveyor depicting the property lines of the proposed business
and the property lines of any existing protected use within 1,000 feet of the
proposed business. A protected use is established if it is in existence at the
time the application is submitted;
         (j)   The application must be signed by the individual applicant and
all individual(s) named in the application; and
         (k)   A signed release indicating the applicants understanding that
the village, county, and state criminal records checks, going back five years
before the date of the application, will be performed for the applicant and all
individual(s) named in the application.
      (4)   Applicants are under a continuing duty to promptly update their
application information. Failure to do so within 30 days of the date of a
change in application information shall be grounds for permit suspension.
      (5)   If the Village Administrator learns an applicant has improperly
completed the permit application, the Administrator shall promptly notify the
applicant and allow ten days for correction.
      (6)   A $100 non-refundable application fee is due at the time the
applicant files an application.
      (7)   Concurrent with obtaining a permit to operate a sexually-oriented
business, the applicant shall obtain certification that the proposed location
complies with the location requirements of this Zoning Code.
      (8)   The possession of other types of state or village permits and/or
licenses, including a liquor license, does not exempt an applicant from the
requirement of obtaining a sexually-oriented business permit.
      (9)   By filing an application, the applicant shall be deemed to have
consented to the provisions of this Zoning Code and to the investigation of the
application by the Village Administrator and his or her designees.
      (10)   The applicant is required to provide the village with the names of
all employees required to be licensed by this Zoning Code. This obligation
continues even after a permit is granted or renewed.
      (11)   A sexually-oriented business permit may be renewed annually upon
written application, subject to payment of the annual permit fee and that the
permit holder is still in conformance with the permit requirements.
   (E)   Application investigation process. Upon receipt of an application, the
village shall investigate to determine if the requirements of this Zoning Code
have been met.
   (F)   Issuance of permit.
      (1)   An application shall be granted or denied within 60 days from the
date of its proper filing.
      (2)   Grant of application for permit:
         (a)   An application shall be granted if the requirements of this
Zoning Code are met.
         (b)   The permit shall state on its face the name of the person or
persons to whom it is granted and the address of the sexually-oriented business
and the permit expiration date. The permit shall be posted in a conspicuous
place at or near the entrance to the sexually-oriented business so it can be
read at any time.
      (3)   Denial of application for permit:
         (a)   An application for permit may be denied for any of the following
reasons:
            1.   An applicant or any individual named in the application is
under 18 years of age;
            2.   An applicant or any individual named in the application is
overdue on the payment of taxes, fees, fines or penalties assessed by the
village in relation to a sexually-oriented business;
            3.   An applicant has failed to provide information as required by
this Zoning Code or has supplied false information;
            4.   The $100 application fee has not been paid;
            5.   The proposed business does not comply with the requirements of
this Zoning Code to be 1,000 feet from a protected use;
            6.   To grant the application would violate a statute, ordinance or
court order;
            7.   The applicant has a permit under this Zoning Code which has
been revoked or suspended;
            8.   The applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal act
with the time limitation stated; and
            9.   An applicant has in his/her employ an employee who does not
have a valid license as required by this Zoning Code.
          (b)   Applicants shall be promptly notified of an application denial
and the reason(s) for denial.
   (G)   Annual permit fee. The annual fee for a sexually-oriented business is
$850.
   (H)   Inspection. Representatives of the Police Department shall be
permitted to enter a sexually-oriented business to determine compliance with
the requirements of this Zoning Code at any time it is occupied or open for
business. Failure to allow inspection is unlawful and is a misdemeanor.
   (I)   Expiration of permit. Each permit shall expire one year from the date
of issuance and may be renewed by making an application at least 60 days before
the expiration date, but no sooner than 90 days before the expiration date. If
a renewal is denied, a new permit shall not be issued for one year from the
date of denial. If the basis for denial has been corrected and at least 90 days
have elapsed from the date the denial became final, a new permit may be
granted.
   (J)   Suspension of permit. A permit to operate a sexually-oriented business
may be suspended until the violation causing the suspension has been corrected;
provided the period is not to exceed 30 days, if a permittee or an employee of
a permittee:
      (1)   Violates or is not in compliance with this Zoning Code;
      (2)   Works at the sexually-oriented business while under the influence
of alcohol or of a controlled substance;
      (3)   Refuses to allow an inspection of the sexually-oriented business in
accordance with this Zoning Code;
      (4)   Permits gambling on the premises of the sexually-oriented business;
      (5)   Transfers the sexually-oriented business permit to another in
violation of this Zoning Code; or
      (6)   Employs a person without a valid employee license as required by
this Zoning Code.
   (K)   Revocation of permit.
      (1)   A permit to operate a sexually-oriented business shall be revoked
upon a determination that either a permit is to be suspended for a second time
within a 12-month period or that a permittee or an employee of a permittee:
         (a)   Gave false or misleading information on the permit application
which enhanced the permittee’s opportunity to obtain a permit;
         (b)   Allowed the possession, sale or use of a controlled substance on
the premises;
         (c)   Allowed prostitution on the premises;
         (d)   Operated the business while under permit suspension;
         (e)   Has been convicted of a specified criminal act for which the
time period required has not elapsed;
         (f)   Committed a specified criminal act on the permitted premises on
one or more occasions within a 12-month period while employed by the permit
holder;
         (g)   Has been convicted of tax violations for taxes or fees related
to a sexually-oriented business;
         (h)   Allowed any act of sexual intercourse, sexual conduct or any
other specified sexual activities to occur in or on the permitted premises; or
         (i)   Operated more than one sexually-oriented business under one
roof.
      (2)   A permit shall be revoked for one year and a permittee shall not
receive any other permits for any other sexually-oriented businesses during the
one year revocation period. If the basis for revocation is corrected, the
applicant may be granted a new permit if at least 90 days have elapsed since
the date the revocation became effective.
   (L)   Judicial review of permit denial, suspension or revocation. An
applicant or permittee may seek review of a denial of an application, denial of
a renewal of an application, suspension or revocation of a permit through the
Village Council. If the denial, suspension or revocation is affirmed on review,
the applicant or permittee may seek review of the administrative decision in
the County Court of Common Pleas.
   (M)   Transfer of a permit.
      (1)   A permittee shall not operate a sexually-oriented business at any
place other than the address designated in the application for permit.
      (2)   A permittee shall not transfer a permit to another person unless
that person:
         (a)   Obtains an amendment to the permit upon the satisfactory
completion of an application; and
         (b)   Pays a transfer fee of 20% of the annual permit fee.
      (3)   A permit may not be transferred when the permittee has been
notified that suspension or revocation proceedings have been brought against
the permittee.
      (4)   A permit shall not be transferred to another location.
      (5)   Any transfer attempted in violation of this Zoning Code is void and
will revoke the permit.
   (N)   Sexually-oriented business employee license.
      (1)   All employees of a sexually-oriented business are required to
obtain a sexually-oriented business employee license (employee license). Each
applicant shall pay a permit fee of $25 to cover reasonable administrative
costs.
      (2)   On a form provided by the village, the applicant shall provide his
or her:
         (a)   Name, including any stage names or aliases;
         (b)   Age, birth date and birthplace;
         (c)   Current resident and business addresses and phone numbers;
         (d)   Height, weight and hair and eye color;
         (e)   State driver’s license or identification number and Social
Security number;
         (f)   Proof of minimum age of 18;
         (g)   A color photograph and fingerprints on a form provided by the
village;
         (h)   A statement detailing the license or permit history of the
applicant for the previous five years including information as to whether a
permit had ever been denied, revoked or suspended; the reason for such action;
the date of such action; and the jurisdiction in which such action occurred;
         (i)   Information as to whether the applicant has been convicted of a
specified criminal act and the date, place, jurisdiction and nature of such
conviction; and
         (j)   A signed release indicating the applicant’s understanding that
village, county and state criminal records checks, going back five years before
the date of the application, will be performed for the applicant.
      (3)   The application review shall be completed within 15 days of filing.
The employee license shall be issued unless the village finds that:
         (a)   The applicant knowingly made a false, misleading or fraudulent
statement of material fact;
         (b)   The applicant is under 18 years of age;
         (c)   The applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal act;
         (d)   The license is to be used in a business prohibited by this
Zoning Code or other state or local law; or
         (e)   The applicant has had an employee license revoked within two
years of the date of the current application.
      (4)   An employee license may be renewed annually upon written
application subject to the payment of a $10 renewal fee and a finding that the
applicant is still in conformance with the application requirements.
   (O)   Operation of sexually-oriented businesses. A person commits a
misdemeanor if he or she operates or causes to be operated a sexually-oriented
business:
      (1)   In any matter except as provided under this Zoning Code;
      (2)   Within 1,000 feet of any protected use;
      (3)   Within 500 feet of any other sexually-oriented business;
      (4)   In the same building as an existing sexually-oriented business, or
causes the substantial enlargement of any sexually-oriented business;
      (5)   Without a valid permit as required by this Zoning Code; or
      (6)   In any zoning district other than I (Industrial).
   (P)   Minors prohibited. A person commits a misdemeanor if he or she
operates or causes to be operated a sexually-oriented business and knowingly or
with reasonable cause to know, permits, suffers or allows:
      (1)   A person under 18 years of age to be admitted, remain, or purchase
goods or services at the business premises without the specific consent of a
parent or guardian; or
      (2)   A person under 18 years of age to be employed at the premises.
   (Q)   Advertising and lighting regulations. A person commits a misdemeanor
if he or she operates or causes to be operated a sexually-oriented business
and:
      (1)   Advertises the presentation of any activity prohibited by this
Zoning Code or other local or state regulation;
      (2)   Displays or exhibits the materials and performances in advertising
which is visible outside the premises except for advertising showing the
existence or location of a sexually-oriented business;
      (3)   Allows any portion of the interior premises to be visible from
outside the establishment; or
      (4)   Fails to illuminate the premise entries and off-street parking
areas from dusk until closing with a lighting system which provides an average
maintained horizontal illumination of one foot-candle of light on the parking
surface and walkways.
   (R)   Hours of operation. A person commits a misdemeanor if he or she
operates or causes to be operated a sexually-oriented business and allows the
business to remain open, or to permit any employee to engage in a performance,
solicit a performance, make a sale, provide a service or solicit a service
between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. of any particular day. Any
employee who engages in the above activity also commits a misdemeanor.
   (S)   Nudity prohibited. Public nudity is prohibited in sexually-oriented
businesses. Any sexually-oriented business which is found in violation of this
Zoning Code shall have its permit suspended in addition to any other penalty
provided by law.
   (T)   Criminal penalties for the operation of a sexually-oriented business
without a valid permit. In addition to the criminal penalties found in other
sections of this Zoning Code, it shall be unlawful and a person commits a
misdemeanor if he or she operates or causes to be operated a sexually-oriented
business and knows or should know that the business does not have a sexually-
oriented business permit or has a permit which has expired or which has been
suspended or revoked.
   (U)   Exemptions.
      (1)   It is a defense to prosecution for violation of this Zoning Code
that a person appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class
operated:
         (a)   By a college, junior college, or university supported in whole
or in part by taxation;
         (b)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
         (c)   In a structure:
            1.   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure
and no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing;
            2.   Where, in order to participate in a class a student must
enroll at least three days in advance of the class; and
            3.   Where no more than one nude model is permitted at a time.
      (2)   It is a defense to prosecution that an employee of a sexually-
oriented business exposed any specified anatomical area during the bona fide
use of a rest room or dressing room accessibly only to employees.
   (V)   Immunity from prosecution. The village, Police Department and all
other village offices, agents, and employees charged with enforcement of state
and local laws and codes shall be immune from prosecution, civil or criminal,
for reasonable, good faith trespass upon a sexually-oriented business while
acting within the scope of authority conferred by this Zoning Code.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.070 MOBILE HOMES ON INDIVIDUAL PARCELS (LOTS).
   It is the intent of this Zoning Code that no mobile home shall be permitted
in any zoning district other than in R-3 as a conditional use in a mobile home
park, except those which exist in other districts prior to the enactment of
this Zoning Code. Mobile homes which are in place on individual parcels (lots)
at the enactment of this Zoning Code may continue; provided the following
conditions are met.
   (A)   An existing mobile home is a vehicle or mobile structure more than 40
feet long, on wheels, skids, rollers, or blocks, designed to be pulled, pushed,
or carried by motor vehicle on a highway, and designed for living as a one-
family dwelling, complete and ready for occupancy as such except for minor and
incidental packing and assembly operations, location on permanent foundations,
connections to utilities, and the like.
   (B)   (1)   An existing mobile home may be replaced by a newer mobile home
of the same or larger size as long as the minimum zoning lot requirements of
the district in which it is located are met.
      (2)   If in so replacing the existing mobile home, it is not physically
possible to meet the minimum zoning lot requirements of this Zoning Code, the
replacement will be permitted as long as the yard setbacks of the existing
mobile home being replaced are maintained. In no way shall the non-conforming
yard setbacks be decreased.
   (C)   If an existing mobile home is removed from said individual parcel
(lot) for a period of three months or longer, the use of the parcel (lot)
reverts to that for which that district is zoned, and no mobile home will be
permitted thereafter.
   (D)   The Planning Commission may approve the establishment of a mobile home
park on application which shall be accomplished by a detailed plan that
includes sanitary and water facilities and other data as required. Should the
Planning Commission approve such mobile home park, mobile homes may thereafter
be located there in conformance to the application as approved using the
criteria listed below (see §
153.136).
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.071 BED AND BREAKFAST INNS.
   Bed and breakfast inns may be approved when the following conditions are
met.
   (A)   The applicant shall provide a site plan showing the lot proposed to
contain the bed and breakfast inn, existing structures, proposed improvements,
parking, signage, and screening and a floor plan indicting the proposed
operations.
   (B)   The bed and breakfast inn shall maintain a register listing the name,
address, phone number and dates of stay of all paying guests. The registry
shall be made available for inspection by the village.
   (C)   No more than five persons, being two adults and three children, may
occupy each guestroom.
   (D)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the building or
lot or other visible evidence of the conduct of the bed and breakfast inn that
will indicate from the exterior that the building is being utilized in part for
any purpose other than that of a single-family dwelling.
   (E)   Signage shall be permitted as non-illuminated, not to exceed four feet
square and not to be placed above the first story and as indicated in §§
153.170 through
153.182.
   (F)   One off-street parking space shall be provided for every guestroom in
addition to the off-street parking otherwise required for a one-family
dwelling. All off-street parking shall be screened in accordance with §§
153.150 through
153.159. Off-street parking for guests may be double-stacked. On-street parking
on public rights-of-way (where permitted) adjacent to the lot may be counted to
reduce the number of parking spaces required.
   (G)   No kitchen facilities within individual rooms. No kitchen or cooking
facilities shall be permitted within the individual guestrooms.
   (H)   The percentage of structure occupied by the bed and breakfast inn
shall be no more than 50% of the gross floor area of the single-family dwelling
may be occupied by the inn.
   (I)   Rental of the bed and breakfast inn for special gatherings such as
wedding receptions and parties shall be prohibited.
   (J)   The applicant shall submit the proposed bed and breakfast inn to the
County Community Development Department for review and a written certificate of
occupancy shall be presented to the Village Administrator prior to the issuance
of a building/zoning permit.
   (K)   The plans for the proposed bed and breakfast inn shall be reviewed by
Fire Chief, and a building/zoning permit shall not be issued by the Village
Administrator until the Fire Chief has inspected the bed and breakfast inn.
   (L)   The applicant shall submit the proposed bed and breakfast inn to the
County Health Department for review.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.072 AUTOMOBILE WASHING FACILITIES.
   (A)   All washing activities shall be carried on within an enclosed
building, except for entrance and exit doors which may be left open during the
hours of operation.
   (B)   The minimum site size shall be 15,000 square feet, with no less than
100 feet of frontage.
   (C)   Automobile washing structures shall be located at least 50 feet from
any adjoining residential property and shall be no closer than ten feet from
side property lines.
   (D)   Vacuuming or steam cleaning equipment may be located outside a
building, but shall not be placed closer than 50 feet to any adjacent
residential property and at least 20 feet from a public right-of-way.
   (E)   Water or residue from the washing process shall not be allowed to
drain from the site containing such establishment.
   (F)   All parking and access drives shall be hard-surfaced and dust-free.
   (G)   The following waiting and parking requirements shall be minimum
requirements.
      (1)   A minimum of six off-street waiting spaces shall be provided for
every bay of a self-service washing facility, and a minimum of ten off-street
waiting spaces shall be provided for every bay with automatic or assembly-line
type washing facilities. Waiting spaces shall not block or otherwise interfere
with site circulation patterns.
      (2)   A minimum of two parking spaces shall be provided at the exit end
of each washing bay for drying and hand finishing of vehicles.
      (3)   One parking space for each regular employee of the premises with a
minimum of two employee parking spaces for the site.
   (H)   A solid fence, wall or evergreen shrubbery at least six feet in height
shall be required when an automobile washing facility is adjacent to a
residential district or adjacent to any residential property.
   (I)   Access shall only be from arterial or commercial collector streets to
which the automobile washing facility shall adjoin. Alleys shall not be used
for access to or from an automobile washing facility, nor shall alleys be used
for maneuvering, waiting or parking purposes.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.073 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of this Zoning Code is to regulate the placement,
construction, and modification of facilities and their support structures in
order to promote and protect the public health, safety, and welfare, while at
the same time not unreasonably interfering with the development of the
competitive wireless telecommunications marketplace in the Miami Valley Region.
Specifically, the purposes of this section are:
      (1)   To direct the location of various types of towers and facilities
into appropriate areas of the village;
      (2)   To protect residential areas and land uses from potential adverse
impacts of towers and facilities;
      (3)   To minimize adverse visual impacts of towers and facilities through
careful design, siting, landscaping and innovative camouflaging techniques;
      (4)   To promote and encourage shared use/co-location of towers and
antenna support structures as a primary option rather than construction of
additional single-use towers;
      (5)   To avoid potential damage to adjacent properties caused by towers
and facilities by ensuring such structures are soundly-designed, constructed
and modified; are appropriately maintained; and are fully removed; and
      (6)   To the greatest extent feasible, ensure that towers and facilities
are compatible with surrounding land uses and natural settings.
   (B)   Applicability. All towers, antenna support structures and facilities,
any portion of which are located within the village, are subject to this Zoning
Code. Except as provided herein, any use being made of an existing tower or
antenna support structure on the effective date of this Zoning Code shall be
deemed a non-conforming structure and allowed to continue, even if in conflict
with the terms of this Zoning Code. Any tower site that has received approval
in the form of a building/zoning permit issued by the village, but has not yet
been constructed or located, shall be considered a non-conforming structure so
long as such approval is current and not expired.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ANTENNA. Any panel, whip, dish or other apparatus designed for
communications through the sending and/or receiving of electromagnetic waves,
excluding any support structure other than brackets.
      ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURE. Any building or other structure other than a
tower which can be used for location of facilities.
      CELLULAR COMMUNICATION SERVICES. Personal communications accessed by
means of cellular equipment and services.
      CELLULAR OR WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS ANTENNA. Any structure or device used
to receive or transmit electromagnetic waves between cellular phones, pagers,
commercial mobile services, wireless services, and ground-wired communications
systems including both directional antennas, such as panels, microwave dishes
and satellite dishes, and omni-directional antennas, such as whips and
equipment utilized to serve personal communication services.
      CELLULAR OR WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SITE. Any tract of land, lot, or
parcel that contains the cellular or wireless communications tower, antenna,
support structure(s), parking, and any other uses associated with and ancillary
to cellular or wireless communications transmission.
      CELLULAR OR WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. Any building or
structure accessory to, but necessary for the proper functioning of the
cellular or wireless communications antenna or tower.
      CELLULAR OR WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS TOWER. Any freestanding structure
used to support a cellular or wireless communications antenna.
      CELLULAR OR WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS TOWER; HEIGHT OF. The height of the
structure, measured from the base to its top and including any antenna located
thereon.
      WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITY (FACILITY). Any cables, towers,
wires, lines, wave guides, antennas and any other equipment or facilities
associated with the transmission or reception of communications as authorized
by the FCC which a person or entity seeks to locate or have installed upon a
tower antenna support structure. However, the term WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS
FACILITIES shall not include:
         (a)   Any satellite earth station antenna two meters in diameter or
less which is located in an area zoned industrial or commercial;
         (b)   Any satellite earth station antenna one meter or less in
diameter, regardless of zoning category; or
         (c)   Antennas used by amateur radio operators.
   (D)   Standards applicable to all wireless telecommunication facilities.
      (1)   Construction standards. All facilities and support structures shall
be certified by an engineer licensed in the state to be structurally-sound and,
at a minimum, in conformance with the Ohio Basic Building Code.
      (2)   Natural resource protection standards. The location of the facility
shall comply with all natural resource protection standards established either
in this Zoning Code or in other applicable regulations, including those for
floodplains, wetlands, groundwater protection and steep slopes.
      (3)   Historic or architectural standards compliance. Any application to
locate a facility on or in a close proximity of a building or structure that is
listed on a federal, state, or local historic register, or is in an historic
district established by the village, shall be subject to review by the Planning
Commission to ensure architectural and design standards are maintained.
      (4)   Color and appearance. All facilities shall be painted a non-
contrasting gray or similar color minimizing their visibility, unless otherwise
required by the Federal Communications Commission, Federal Aviation
Administration, and/or by historical or architectural standards imposed by
village ordinance. All appurtenances shall be aesthetically and architecturally
compatible with the surrounding environment by the means of camouflage deemed
acceptable by the village.
      (5)   Advertising prohibited. No advertising is permitted anywhere upon
or attached to the facility.
      (6)   Artificial lighting restricted. No facility shall be artificially
lit except as required by the Federal Communication Commission and/or Federal
Aviation Administration. The minimum amount of illumination shall be used to
reduce glare to the surrounding neighborhood.
      (7)   Abandonment. All cellular or wireless communication towers shall be
subject to the abandonment requirements set forth in division (G) of this
section.
      (8)   Security enclosure required. All towers and equipment shelters
shall be enclosed either completely or individually as determined by the
village. All co-locators on the site, as well as village representatives and
authorized employees, shall have reasonable access to the facility site. No
fencing shall be required on top of a building or other structure if access to
the roof or top of the structure or building is secure.
      (9)   Existing vegetation and buffer plants. Existing vegetation (trees,
shrubs and the like) shall be preserved to the maximum extent possible. Buffer
plants shall be located around the perimeter of the security enclosure as
deemed appropriate by the village. An evergreen screen may be required around
the perimeter of the property in lieu of such buffer plants.
      (10)   Access control and emergency contact. No trespassing signs shall
be posted around the facility, along with a telephone number of who to contact
in the event of an emergency.
      (11)   Maintenance. Any owner/operator of property used as a facility
shall maintain such property and all structures in good condition, free from
trash, litter, outdoor storage, weeds and other debris.
      (12)   Co-location. All facilities shall be subject to the co-location
requirements set forth in division (E) of this section.
   (E)   Co-location requirement.
      (1)   Potential public sites. In order to encourage the location of a
facility on publicly-owned property, the village shall undertake an
identification of publicly-owned properties that the village determines are
suitable for such use. The village shall regularly update such identification
and make the results of such available to the public.
      (2)   Exemption of proof of co-location availability. Persons locating a
facility upon a publicly-owned property identified as eligible for siting shall
be exempted from the requirements herein regarding presentation of proof that
co-location is not available. However, persons locating on such public sites
shall continue to be subject to the requirements concerning co-location design
(see below).
      (3)   Co-location design required. No new tower shall be constructed in
the village unless such tower is capable of accommodating at least one
additional facility owned by another party.
      (4)   Technically suitable space. Authorization for a tower shall be
issued only if there is not a technically-suitable space reasonably available
on an existing tower or structure within the geographic area to be served.
      (5)   Application requirements. With the permit application, the
applicant shall list the location of every tower, building or structure within
a reasonable proximity that could support the proposed antenna. The applicant
must demonstrate that a technically-suitable location is not reasonably
available on an existing tower, building or structure within such area. If
another communication tower owned by another party within such area is
technically suitable, applicant must show that a commercially-reasonable offer
was made to the owner of such tower to co-locate an antenna on a tower owned by
the applicant on reciprocal terms within the village, and the offer was not
accepted. If such co-location offer has not been attempted by the applicant,
then such other tower is presumed to be reasonably available.
   (F)   Location of wireless telecommunication facilities. Facilities shall be
permitted only in areas of the village designated as an Industrial District.
Such use shall be conditional, subject to the approval of the Planning
Commission in accordance with procedures established by the zoning ordinance
and this Zoning Code. Facilities are permitted as a conditional use subject to
the requirements below.
      (1)   Tower.
         (a)   Maximum height. The maximum height of such tower shall be less
than the distance of such tower from the nearest property line of any
incorporated lands.
         (b)   Equipment shelter. The minimum setback and yard requirements set
forth in the Zoning Code shall apply for equipment shelters, antenna support
structures, and cellular or wireless support structures, and such shelter or
structures shall not be located above ground in any required front or side
yard.
      (2)   Antenna. A cellular or wireless telecommunications antenna that is
mounted to an existing communications tower (whether said tower is for cellular
purposes or not), smoke stack, water tower, or other tall structure, shall be
permitted as a right in an Industrial District. Cellular or wireless
telecommunications antenna may also be located on the top of Industrial
District buildings which are at least 50 feet in height.
      (3)   Proximity to residential districts. Cellular or wireless
telecommunications sites or facilities shall not be located in any residential
zoning district including the R-1, R-2 and R-3 Districts, nor shall they be
located any closer to these residential zoning districts according to the
following:
         (a)   Cellular or wireless communication towers less than 100 feet in
height shall be located no closer than 500 feet to any residential zoning
district or use;
         (b)   Cellular or wireless communication towers less than 150 feet in
height shall be located no closer than 750 feet to any residential zoning
district or use; and
         (c)   Cellular or wireless communication towers 150 feet in height or
greater shall be located no closer than 1,000 feet to any residential zoning
district or use.
      (4)   Conditional use standards concerning placement. In addition to the
applicable standards enumerated in division (D) of this section, the following
requirements shall apply to all conditionally-permitted cellular or wireless
communication antennas and towers.
         (a)   The cellular or wireless telecommunications company shall be
required to demonstrate, using the latest technological evidence, that the
antenna or tower must be placed where it is proposed in order to satisfy its
necessary function in the company’s grid system.
         (b)   If the cellular or wireless communications company proposes to
build a cellular or wireless communications tower (as opposed to mounting the
antenna on an existing structure), the company is required to demonstrate that
it has contacted the owners of all nearby tall structures within a one-mile
radius of the proposed site, asked for permission to install the cellular or
wireless communications antennas on those structures, and was denied for
reasons other than economic ones. Tall structures shall include, but are not
limited to, smoke stacks, water towers, buildings over 50 feet in height,
antenna support structures of other cellular, or wireless telecommunication
companies, other communication towers and roadway lighting poles.
         (c)   The village may deny the application to construct a new cellular
or wireless communications tower if it determines that the applicant has not
made a good faith effort to mount the antenna on existing structures.
         (d)   The applicant shall demonstrate that the antenna/tower is the
minimum height required to function satisfactorily. No antenna/tower that is
taller than the minimum height shall be approved.
   (G)   Abandonment of wireless communication facilities.
      (1)   Required notification. All providers utilizing towers shall present
a report to the village notifying it of any tower facility located in the
village whose use will be discontinued and the date this use will cease. Such a
report shall be filed with the village 30 days prior to the cessation date. If
at any time the use of the facility is discontinued for 180 days, the Zoning
Administrator may declare the facility abandoned. The 180-day period excludes
any dormancy period between construction and the initial use of the facility.
The owner/operator of the facility will receive written notice from the Zoning
Administrator and be instructed to either reactivate use of the facility or
commence to dismantle and remove the facility within 60 days from the mailing
of the notice. If use is not reactivated or dismantling is not commenced (or is
commenced in a manner less than diligent), the Zoning Administrator reserves
the right to have the facility removed and assess the owner/operator the costs.
      (2)   Required notice to owner. The village must provide the tower owner/
operator a 30-day notice and an opportunity to be heard before the Board of
Zoning Appeals before initiating such action. After such notice has been
provided, the village shall have the authority to initiate proceedings to order
the dismantling and/or demolition of the tower and all appurtenances.
      (3)   Right to public hearing by owner/operator. The village shall
provide the tower owner/operator with the right to a public hearing before the
Board of Zoning Appeals, which public hearing shall follow the 30-day notice
noted above. All interested parties shall be allowed an opportunity to be heard
at the public hearing.
      (4)   Order of demolition. After a public hearing is held, the village
may order the abatement or demolition of the tower. The village may require
licensee to pay for all expenses necessary to acquire or demolish the tower.
   (H)   Application and review requirements. All applications for facilities,
including towers, shall include the following.
      (1)   Site plan.
         (a)   A full site plan shall be required for all proposed cellular or
wireless telecommunications sites at a scale of 1" = 100', indicating, as a
minimum, the following:
            1.   The total area of the site;
            2.   The existing zoning of the property in question and all
adjacent;
            3.   All public and private rights-of-way and easement lines
located on or adjacent to the property which is proposed to be continued,
created, relocated or abandoned;
            4.   Existing topography with a maximum of five-foot contour
intervals;
            5.   The proposed finished grade of development shown by contours
not exceeding five-foot intervals;
            6.   The location of all existing buildings and structures and the
proposed location of the cellular or wireless communications tower and all
cellular or wireless communications support structures including dimensions,
heights, and where applicable, the gross floor area of the buildings;
            7.   The location and dimensions of all curb cuts, driving lanes,
off-street parking, and loading areas including the number of spaces, grades,
surfacing materials, drainage plans and illumination of the facility;
            8.   All existing and proposed sidewalks and open areas on the
site;
            9.   The location of all proposed fences, screening and walls;
            10.   The location of all existing and proposed streets;
            11.   All existing and proposed utilities including types and
grades;
            12.   The schedule of any phasing of the project;
            13.   A written statement by the cellular or wireless
telecommunications company as to the visual and aesthetic impacts of the
proposed cellular or wireless communications tower on all adjacent residential
zoning districts;
            14.   The cellular or wireless telecommunication company must
demonstrate to the village that it is licensed by the Federal Communications
Commission; and
            15.   Any other information as may be required by the Planning
Commission to determine conformance with the zoning ordinance.
         (b)   Upon submission of a complete application for site plan review
to the Zoning Administrator, the application shall be transmitted to the
Planning Commission where they shall review the site plan to determine if it
meets the purpose and requirements as established in this section, the
requirements of the zoning district where the proposed cellular or wireless
telecommunications site is located, and any other applicable sections of the
Zoning Code.
         (c)   The Planning Commission shall act upon all site plans within 35
days after the receipt of the complete application from the Zoning
Administrator. The Planning Commission may approve, disapprove or approve with
modification the site plan as submitted. Within the said 35-day period, a
majority of the members of the Planning Commission present at a meeting thereof
may vote to extend the said period of time, not to exceed an additional 60
days.
      (2)   Denial of application. Any decision to deny a request to place,
construct, or modify a Facility and/or tower shall be in writing and supported
by evidence contained in a written record.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
153.999
CONDITIONAL USES; SUBSTANTIALLY SIMILAR USES
§ 153.085 CONTENTS OF CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT APPLICATION.
   Any owner, or agent thereof, of property for which a conditional use is
proposed shall make an application for a conditional use permit by filing it
with the Village Administrator, who shall within 20 days, transmit it to the
Board of Zoning Appeals. Such application at a minimum shall contain the
following information:
   (A)   Name, address and phone number of the applicant;
   (B)   Locational description of the property;
   (C)   Zoning district;
   (D)   Description of existing use;
   (E)   Description of proposed conditional use;
   (F)   A plan of the proposed site for the conditional use showing the
location of all buildings, parking and loading areas, streets and traffic
accesses, open spaces, refuse and service areas, utilities, signs, yards, lot
lines, landscaping features, and such other information as the Village
Administrator or the Board may require;
   (G)   A narrative statement discussing the compatibility of the proposed use
with the existing uses of adjacent properties and with the comprehensive plan,
to include an evaluation of the effects on adjoining properties of such
elements as traffic circulation, noise, glare, odor, fumes and vibration;
   (H)   A list containing the names and mailing addresses of all owners of
property within 200 feet of the property in question;
   (I)   A fee as established by the Zoning Code (see §
153.242); and
   (J)   A narrative addressing each of the applicable criteria contained in
the following section.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.086 GENERAL STANDARDS FOR ALL CONDITIONAL USES.
   In addition to the specific requirements for conditionally permitted uses as
specified in this section, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall review the
particular facts and circumstances of each proposed use in terms of the
following standards, and shall find adequate evidence showing that such use at
the proposed location:
   (A)   Is in fact a conditional use as established under the provisions of
this Zoning Code and appears on the schedule of district regulations adopted
for the zoning district involved;
   (B)   Will be in accordance with the general objectives, or with any
specific objective, of the Comprehensive Plan and/or the Zoning Code;
   (C)   Will be designed, constructed, operated, and maintained so as to be
harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended
character of the general vicinity and that such use will not change the
essential character of the same area;
   (D)   Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future neighboring
uses;
   (E)   Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and services
such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage structures,
refuse disposal, water and sewer, and schools; or that the persons or agencies
responsible for the establishment of the proposed use shall be able to provide
adequately any such service;
   (F)   Will not create excessive additional requirements at public cost for
public facilities and services and will not be detrimental to the economic
welfare of the community;
   (G)   Will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials, equipment,
and conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any persons, property,
or the general welfare by reason of excessive production of traffic, noise,
smoke, fumes, glare, or odors;
   (H)   Will have vehicular approaches to the property which shall be so
designed as not to create an interference with traffic on surrounding public
streets;
   (I)   Will not result in the destruction, loss, or damage of a natural,
scenic, or historic feature of major importance; and
   (J)   Will otherwise be in conformance with all other sections of this
Zoning Code.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.087 ACTION BY THE BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   Within 60 days of the date of the public hearing, the Board of Zoning
Appeals shall take one of the following actions:
   (A)   Approve issuance of the conditional use permit by making an
affirmative finding in writing that the proposed conditional use is to be
located in a district wherein such use may be conditionally permitted, that all
conditions for approval of such use in such district have been met, and that
such use will neither result in significant negative impacts upon nor conflict
with surrounding uses. Such written finding may also prescribe supplemental
conditions and safeguards. Upon making an affirmative finding, the Board of
Zoning Appeals shall direct the Village Administrator to issue a conditional
use permit for such use which shall list all conditions and safeguards
specified by the Board of Zoning Appeals for approval; or
   (B)   Make a written finding that the application is deficient in
information or is in need of modification and is being returned to the
applicant. Such finding shall specify the information and/or modifications
which are deemed necessary. Make a written finding that the application is
denied and specify the reason(s) for disapproval.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.088 ADDITIONAL CRITERIA.
   (A)   Additional conditions. The Board of Zoning Appeals may impose other
conditions for a conditional use in addition to those prescribed in this
section if, in the Board of Zoning Appeals’ judgment, additional conditions are
necessary for the protection of the public health and for reasons of safety,
and convenience.
   (B)   Supplemental conditions and safeguards. In granting approval for any
conditional use, the Board of Zoning Appeals may prescribe appropriate
conditions and safeguards in conformance with this Zoning Code. Any violation
of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which
the conditional use is granted, shall be deemed a punishable violation of this
Zoning Code.
   (C)   Expiration of conditional use permit. A conditional use permit shall
be deemed to authorize only one particular conditional use, and said permit
shall automatically expire if such conditionally permitted use has not been
instituted or utilized within six months of the date on which the permit was
issued, or if for any reason such use shall cease for more than one year.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.089 PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   A public hearing shall be held by the Board of Zoning Appeals in
considering an application for a conditional use permit.
   (B)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hold a public hearing within 60 days
after it receives an application for a conditional use permit submitted by an
applicant through the Village Administrator.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.090 NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING IN NEWSPAPER.
   Before conducting a public hearing, notice of such hearing shall be given in
one newspaper of general circulation in the village at least ten days before
the date of said hearing. The notice shall set forth the time and place of the
hearing, and shall provide a summary explanation of the conditional use
proposed.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.091 NOTICE TO PARTIES OF INTEREST.
   Prior to conducting a public hearing, written notice of such hearing shall
be by first-class mail, at least ten days before the date of the hearing to all
parties of interest, to include all parties within 200 feet. The failure to
deliver the notification as provided in this section shall not invalidate any
such amendment. The notice shall contain the same information as required in §
153.090.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.092 PROCEDURE AND REQUIREMENTS TO DETERMINE THAT USE IS SUBSTANTIALLY
SIMILAR.
   (A)   Where a specific use is proposed that is not listed or provided for in
this Zoning Code, the Village Administrator will make a determination, if the
proposed use is substantially similar to a specific use that is listed or
provided for in this Zoning Code. If the Village Administrator finds that a use
is substantially similar to a specific use listed in this Zoning Code, the
substantially similar use is deemed to be a substantially similar permitted use
in those districts where the specific use is a permitted use, and a
substantially similar conditional use in those districts where the specific use
is a conditionally permitted use.
   (B)   The following standards shall be considered by the Village
Administrator when making a determination that a use is substantially similar
to a permitted or a conditional use within a specific district:
      (1)   The compatibility of the proposed use with the general use
classification system as specified in this Zoning Code;
      (2)   The nature, predominant characteristics and intensity of the
proposed use in relation to those uses specified by this Zoning Code as being
permitted, or in the case of a conditional use, conditionally permitted, in
that district; and
      (3)   The size, dimensional requirements, parking requirements, traffic
generation potential and other regulatory considerations normally associated
with uses as specified in this Zoning Code.
   (C)   Should a use be determined to be substantially similar to a specific
permitted or conditionally permitted use provided for in this Zoning Code, it
shall then be permitted in the same manner and under the same conditions and
procedures as the use is permitted to which it has been found to be
substantially similar.
   (D)   If the Village Administrator determines that a proposed use is not
substantially similar, such determination can be appealed to the BZA, if the
BZA concurs with the Village Administrator, the determination remedy may be
sought by the appellant through the submission of an application for amendment
to the Zoning Code. However, if the Village Administrator determines that a
proposed use is substantially similar, such determination can also be appealed
to the BZA by other affected or interested parties.
   (E)   (1)   The Village Administrator shall maintain as a public record a
listing of all uses which have been determined to be substantially similar. For
each such use, the record shall include the use as listed in the Zoning Code,
the use listed in the Zoning Code about which the determination of substantial
similarity was made, and the dates of any actions thereupon.
      (2)   This record shall also contain the same information for all uses
which have been determined not to be substantially similar. The Village
Administrator shall consult this record in the process of issuing future
permits.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
NON-CONFORMITIES
§ 153.105 INTENT.
   Within the districts established by this Zoning Code, or by amendments
thereto which may later be adopted, lots, uses of land, structures, and uses of
structures and land in combination exist which were lawful before this Zoning
Code was passed or amended, but which would be prohibited, regulated, or
restricted under the terms of this Zoning Code. The legitimate interest of
those who lawfully established these non-conformities are herein recognized by
providing for their continuance, subject to regulations limiting their
completion, restoration, reconstruction, extension and substitution.
Furthermore, nothing contained in this Zoning Code shall be construed to
require any change in the layout, plans, construction, size, or use of any lot,
structure, or structure and land in combination, for which a building/zoning
permit became effective prior to the effective date of this Zoning Code, or any
amendment thereto. Nevertheless, while it is the intent of this Zoning Code
that such non-conformities be allowed to continue until removed, they should
not be encouraged to survive. Therefore, no non-conformity may be moved,
extended, altered, expanded, or used as grounds for any other use(s) or
structure(s) prohibited elsewhere in the district, except as otherwise
specifically provided for in this Zoning Code.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.106 USES UNDER CONDITIONAL USE PROVISIONS; NOT NON-CONFORMING USES.
   Any use which is permitted as a conditional use in a district under the
terms of this Zoning Code shall not be deemed a non-conforming use in such
district, but shall without further action be considered a conforming use.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.107 AVOIDANCE OF UNDUE HARDSHIP.
   To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this Zoning Code shall be deemed to
require a change in the plans, construction, or designated use of any building
on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this Zoning Code and upon which actual building
construction has been carried on diligently. ACTUAL CONSTRUCTION is hereby
defined to include the placing of construction materials in a permanent
position and fastened in a permanent manner. Where demolition or removal of an
existing building has been substantially begun preparatory to rebuilding, such
demolition or removal shall be deemed to be actual construction, provided that
the work shall be carried out diligently.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.108 SINGLE NON-CONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, a single-
family dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any single
lot of record at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this Zoning
Code, notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this Zoning
Code. Such lot must be in separate ownership and not of continuous frontage
with other lots in the same ownership. This provision shall apply even though
such lot fails to meet the requirements for area or width, or both, that are
generally applicable in the district; provided that yard dimensions and
requirements other than those applying to area or width, or both, of the lot
shall conform to the regulations for the district in which such lot is located.
Variances of requirements listed in this Zoning Code, other than lot area or
lot width, shall be obtained only through action of the BZA as described in §§
153.215 through
153.224.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.109 NON-CONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD IN COMBINATION.
   If two or more lots or a combination of lots and portions of lots with
continuous frontage in single ownership are of record at the time of passage or
amendment of this Zoning Code, and if all or part of the lots with no buildings
do not meet the requirements established for lot width and area, the lands
involved shall be considered to be an undivided parcel for the purposes of this
Zoning Code, and no portion of said parcel shall be used or sold in a manner
which diminishes compliance with lot width and area requirements established by
this Zoning Code, nor shall any division of any parcel be made which creates a
lot with a width or area below the requirements stated in this Zoning Code.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.110 NON-CONFORMING USES OF LAND.
   Where, at the time of adoption of this Zoning Code, lawful uses of land
exist which would not be permitted by the regulations imposed by this Zoning
Code, the uses may be continued so long as they remain otherwise lawful,
provided:
   (A)   No such non-conforming uses shall be enlarged or increased, nor
extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective
date of adoption or amendment of this Zoning Code;
   (B)   No such non-conforming uses shall be moved in whole or in part to any
portion of the lot or parcel other than that occupied by such uses at the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this Zoning Code; or
   (C)   No additional structure not conforming to the requirements of this
Zoning Code shall be erected in connection with such non-conforming use of
land.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.111 NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Where a lawful structure exists at the effective date of adoption or
amendment of this Zoning Code that could not be built under the terms of this
Zoning Code by reason of restrictions on area, lot coverage, height, setbacks,
yards, its location on the lot, bulk, or other requirements concerning the
structure, such structure may be continued so long as it remains otherwise
lawful, subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   No such non-conforming structure may be enlarged or altered in a way
which increases its non-conformity, but any structure or portion thereof may be
altered to decrease its non-conformity. It shall not be considered an increase
to its non-conformity if the addition meets all zoning requirements (see §
153.007 Exhibit D).
   (B)   Should such structure be moved for any reason for any distance
whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in
which it is located after it is moved.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.112 NON-CONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES OR OF STRUCTURES AND LAND IN
COMBINATION.
   If a lawful use involving individual structures, or if a structure and land
in combination, exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
Zoning Code that would not be allowed in the district under the terms of this
Zoning Code, the lawful use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise
lawful, subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this Zoning
Code in the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended,
constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered except in changing
the use of the structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is
located, except any residential structure which is non-conforming due to the
fact of its being in a commercial or industrial district may be enlarged,
extended, reconstructed or structurally-altered provided it meets with the
requirements of the R-2 Two-Family Residential District.
   (B)   Any non-conforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
building which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the time of
adoption or amendment of this Zoning Code, but no such use shall be extended to
occupy any land outside such building.
   (C)   Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on which a
non-conforming use is superseded by a permitted use, shall thereafter conform
to the regulations for the district, and the non-conforming use may not
thereafter be resumed.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.113 TERMINATION OF NON-CONFORMITIES.
   (A)   Termination of use through discontinuance. When any non-conforming use
is discontinued or abandoned for more than six months, any new use shall not
thereafter be used except in conformity with the regulations of the district in
which it is located, and the non-conforming use may not thereafter be resumed.
The intent to continue a non-conforming use shall not be evidence of its
continuance.
   (B)   Use by damage or destruction. Any non-conforming use of a building or
structure which has been damaged or destroyed may be reconstructed as it
previously existed prior to the damage or destruction. Such restoration shall
not cause a new non-conformity, nor shall it increase the degree of non-
conformance or non-compliance existing prior to such damage or destruction. A
zoning certificate pertaining to such restoration shall be applied for and
issued within six months of such damage or destruction, and rebuilding shall be
completed within six months of issuance of building/zoning permit. When such a
non-conforming structure is so damaged or destroyed, and not going to be
reconstructed as it previously existed, no rebuilding, restoration or
reoccupation shall be permitted except in conformity with all applicable
regulations of this Zoning Code.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS (PUD)
§ 153.125 INTENT.
   The intent of this section is to permit and encourage the creative design of
new residential, commercial and industrial areas in order to promote
imaginative proposals for local development while protecting the health,
safety, and general welfare of existing and future residents of surrounding
neighborhoods.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.126 REQUIREMENTS.
   The owner or owners of any parcel of land in the districts designated may
submit an application to the Village Council for the type of PUD permitted in
that district. Residential planned unit developments, hereafter referred to as
R-PUDs may be permitted in the R-1, R-2 and R-3 Residential Zoning Districts.
Commercial planned unit developments, hereafter referred to as C-PUDs may be
permitted in the C-1 and C-2 Commercial Zoning Districts. Industrial planned
unit developments, hereafter referred to as I-PUDs may be permitted in the
Industrial Zoning District.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.127 PERMITTED USES.
   The uses permitted in the PUD shall be those uses permitted by the zoning
district containing such development.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.128 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Pre-application meeting. The developer shall meet with the Village
Administrator prior to the submission of the preliminary development plan. The
purpose of this meeting is to discuss early and informally the purpose and
effect of this Zoning Code, and the criteria and standards contained herein,
and to familiarize the developer with zoning and other applicable regulations.
   (B)   Preliminary development plan.
      (1)   The submittal for a commercial, residential or industrial PUD shall
be filed with the Village Administrator. In consideration of the submittal, the
Planning Commission shall hold at least one public hearing to be held no later
than 30 days after receipt of the submittal by the Planning Commission, unless
such time is extended by agreement with the applicant. The Planning Commission
shall either approve, approve with amendments or deny the application within 30
days after the public hearing. The recommendation shall be forwarded to the
Village Council.
      (2)   Upon receipt of the recommendation of the Planning Commission, the
Village Council shall hold at least one public hearing in consideration of the
submittal prior to reaching a decision. The decision of the Village Council
shall be made no later than 60 days after the receipt of the recommendation of
the Planning Commission. The Village Council may approve, approve with
amendments or deny the submittal. If the submittal is denied, there shall be no
resubmittal for a period of 12 consecutive months after the date denied.
   (C)   Final development plan. Within 12 months of approval or approval with
amendments of the preliminary development plan, the applicant shall submit a
final development plan along with any necessary performance surety to the
Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall evaluate the plan for
conformance with the preliminary development plan for the PUD as approved by
the Village Council. If the Planning Commission finds the final development
plan or the final development plan with amendments is compatible with the
preliminary development plan, then such plan shall be approved. When a final
plat is necessary for lot creation, it shall also be approved as part of the
final development plan. If the final plat contains any right-of-way or easement
dedication, it must go to the Village Council for acceptance prior to final
approval. Acceptance of any right-of-way or easement dedication is a separate
action by the Village Council, and should not affect the overall acceptance of
the final development plan. Upon approval of the final development plan and
recording of the final plat in the Office of the County Recorder, if necessary,
the Village Administrator shall issue the necessary permits.
   (D)   Final development plan effect. Subsequent to the approval of the final
development plan, the lands included with the site area thereof shall not be
developed or used in any manner whatsoever that is not in conformance with the
approved plan; and no permit shall be issued for any building, structure or use
of the lands except in conformance with the approved plan. After the building
is constructed, any necessary condominium plats and legal documents shall be
recorded in the Office of the County Recorder. Such plats and legal documents
will not require further review if they are in conformance with the approved
final development plan as verified by the Village Administrator.
   (E)   Final development plan changes. Any changes in an approved final
development plan desired by the owner of the tract of land involved shall be
submitted to the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall conduct a
public hearing on all proposed revisions to an approved final development plan
and make a determination or finding that:
      (1)   The proposed revision is a minor change, not substantially altering
the overall concept of the PUD. Generally, such changes are limited to small
site alterations, such as realigning a street, shifting a setback, or slight
changes in building designs that do not result in the loss of open space.
Increases of up to 10% of the total development density and any decreases in
density may be determined by the Planning Commission to be minor changes. Minor
changes shall not involve reductions in required improvements, such as open
space, parking areas, pavement widths and the like;
      (2)   The proposed revision is a major change, which will affect the
general character and overall concept of the PUD, including substantial
relocation or redesign of principal or accessory structures, parking, open
space areas and streets. A major change is involved in density increases in
excess of 10% of the total development density and/or revisions affecting the
land coverage by building, parking and open space areas;
      (3)   Where the Planning Commission determines that the proposed revision
is a minor change, the proposal may be reviewed as a revised final plan, and
action to approve, modify or deny approval may be taken by the Planning
Commission following the public hearing. Minor changes involving or affecting
public improvements shall be referred to Village Council for review and action,
not requiring a public hearing by Village Council;
      (4)   Where the Planning Commission determines that the proposed revision
is a major change, the proposal shall be reviewed as a revised preliminary
development plan as a part of the same public hearing, and the Planning
Commission may act to approve, modify, or deny approval for the revised
preliminary plan, following the public hearing. The revised preliminary plan
shall be reviewed in the same manner as the original plan, including a public
hearing review by Village Council; and
      (5)   Upon approval of a revised final development plan as a minor or
major change, the original final plan shall be considered void and the revised
final plan shall have the same force effect as if it were the original plan.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.129 PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Any submittal for a PUD shall contain the following information in the
submittal package, including the information constituting a preliminary
development plan. The applicant shall submit an original plus 15 copies of the
preliminary development plan and written documents as determined by the Village
Administrator:
   (A)   Names, address, and phone number of owners, developers, and designers
of the plan, and proposed name of the development;
   (B)   Name, address, and phone number of registered surveyor, registered
engineer, and/or urban planner assisting in the preparation of the preliminary
development plan;
   (C)   A legal description of the land to be developed under the submittal;
   (D)   Present use(s);
   (E)   Present and proposed zoning district;
   (F)   Evidence that the applicant has sufficient control over the land in
question to initiate the proposed development plan within two years;
   (G)   A fee as established by this Zoning Code (see § 153.242);
   (H)   A list containing the names and mailing addresses of all owners of
property within 200 feet of the property in question;
   (I)   Verification by at least one owner of property that all information in
the submittal is true and correct to the best of their knowledge;
   (J)   A statement of the objectives to be achieved by the PUD through the
particular approach proposed by the applicant and the rationale behind the
assumptions and choices made by the applicant;
   (K)   A development schedule indicating the approximate date when
development and construction of the PUD can be expected to begin and be
completed;
   (L)   Quantitative data for the following items:
      (1)   Total number of dwelling units, commercial facilities, industrial
buildings and parcel size;
      (2)   Proposed lot coverage of buildings and structures;
      (3)   Approximate gross and net residential, commercial or industrial
densities;
      (4)   Total amount of open space including separate figure for usable
open space; and
      (5)   Economic feasibility study or market analysis where deemed
necessary by the Planning Commission.
   (M)   Site plan and supporting maps. Maps shall be drawn at an appropriate
scale to show the following information:
      (1)   Date, north arrow and scale;
      (2)   Existing zoning district;
      (3)   Existing site conditions, including contours at one-foot intervals,
water course, floodplains, unique natural features and natural cover;
      (4)   Proposed lot lines and plot designs;
      (5)   The location and floor area size and height of all existing and
proposed buildings, structures, and other improvements, including maximum
heights, types of dwelling units, density per acre, and non-residential
structures, including commercial facilities;
      (6)   The location and size in acres or square feet of all areas to be
conveyed, dedicated, or reserved as common open spaces, public parks,
recreational areas, school sites, and public and semi-public uses;
      (7)   The existing and proposed circulation system of arterial,
collector, and local streets, including off-street parking areas, service
areas, loading areas, and major points of access to public rights-of-way;
      (8)   Existing and proposed pedestrian circulation system, including its
inter-relationships with the vehicular circulation system indicating proposed
treatment of points of conflict;
      (9)   The existing and proposed utility systems, including proposed and
existing easements for the sanitary sewers; storm sewers; and water, electric,
gas and telephone lines;
      (10)   A general schematic landscape plan indicating the treatment of
materials used for private and common open spaces;
      (11)   Information on land areas adjacent to the proposed PUD to indicate
the relationships between the proposed development and existing and proposed
adjacent areas, including land uses, zoning classifications, densities,
circulation systems, public facilities, unique natural features, and land uses
within one-half mile of the boundaries of the proposed development;
      (12)   A landscaping and screening plan for all perimeters of the PUD;
and
      (13)   Phases of development and approximate starting dates.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.130 NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING IN NEWSPAPER.
   Notice of the public hearing shall be given by the Planning Commission and
Village Council by at least one publication in one or more newspapers of
general circulation in the village. Said notice shall be published at least ten
days before the date of the hearing. The published notice shall set forth the
time and place of the public hearing and a summary of the nature of the
proposed PUD.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.131 NOTICE TO PARTIES OF INTEREST.
   Before conducting the public hearing required, written notice of such
hearing shall be mailed, by the village by first-class mail, at least ten days
before the day of the hearing to all parties within 200 feet. The failure to
deliver the notification as provided in this section shall not invalidate any
such PUD. The notice shall contain the same information as required in §
153.130.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.132 PLANNING COMMISSION TO INVESTIGATE.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall make a recommendation to the Village
Council on the preliminary development plan. In making its recommendation, the
Planning Commission shall consider the following:
      (1)   The proposed development can be initiated within one year of the
date of approval;
      (2)   The proposed streets with the exception of mobile home parks shall
meet requirements of the village ordinance for streets;
      (3)   Any proposed commercial or industrial development can be justified
at the proposed location;
      (4)   Any exception from standard district requirements is warranted by
design and other amenities incorporated in the final development plan, in
accordance with these PUD requirements and the need to provide a variety of
housing opportunities with regard to type and price;
      (5)   The area surrounding said development can be planned and zoned in
coordination and substantial compatibility with the proposed development;
      (6)   The existing and proposed utility services are adequate for the
population densities and non-residential uses proposed;
      (7)   Amount, design and uses of open space in the development;
      (8)   Overall design quality of the development;
      (9)   Impact of the proposed development on utilities;
      (10)   Amenities to be provided by the developer, including, but not
limited to, recreational facilities, infrastructure improvements, environmental
improvements and land set aside for public purposes;
      (11)   Relationship of the development to surrounding land uses; and
      (12)   Impact of the development in providing housing and other community
needs.
   (B)   The Planning Commission may approve greater densities and smaller lot
sizes than those permitted in the zoning district in which the PUD is located.
In no case shall the overall density exceed the density permitted in the zone
by more than 25%, and no lot size shall be more than 25% smaller than that
permitted in the zone.
   (C)   The Planning Commission may take into account any other factors it
deems appropriate to the development under consideration.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.133 FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   After approval of a preliminary development plan by the Village
Council, the applicant shall submit the following information as a final
development plan to the Village Administrator. The submittal shall consist of
an original plus seven copies of all required documents.
   (B)   Each submittal shall be signed by the owner, attesting to the truth
and exactness of all information supplied on the submittal for the final
development plan. Each submittal shall clearly state that the approval shall
expire and be revoked if construction on the project has not begun within one
year from the date of issuance of the approval. At a minimum, the submittal
shall contain the following information:
      (1)   A survey of the proposed development site, showing the dimensions
and bearings of the property lines, area in acres, topography, and existing
features of the development site, including major wooded areas, structures,
streets, easements, utility lines, and land uses;
      (2)   All the information required on the preliminary development plan,
the location and sizes of lots, location and proposed density of dwelling
units, non-residential building intensity, and land uses considered suitable
for adjacent properties;
      (3)   A schedule for the development of units to be constructed in
progression, and a description of the design principles for buildings and
streetscapes, a tabulation of the number of acres in the proposed project for
various uses, the number of housing units proposed by type, estimated
residential population by type of housing, estimated non-residential population
by type of housing, anticipated construction timing for each unit, and
standards for height, open space, building density, parking areas, population
density, and public improvements, whenever the applicant proposes any exception
from standard zoning districts requirements or other ordinances governing
development;
      (4)   A fee as established by this Zoning Code (see §
153.242);
      (5)   Preliminary building plans;
      (6)   Any legal agreements stipulating conveyance of public open space to
homeowners’ or merchants’ association and indicating responsibility for
maintenance of the open space;
      (7)   Any restrictive covenants or other conditions which shall apply to
any parcel of land in the PUD;
      (8)   All necessary legal documentation relating to the incorporation of
a homeowners’ or merchants’ association for the purpose of maintaining any
common open space included within the PUD;
      (9)   Final plat for necessary lot creation and right-of-way or easement
dedication, if necessary;
      (10)   Necessary engineer’s estimates and performance surety for any
public improvements that will eventually be taken over by the village;
      (11)   All surveying and legal documents to be recorded shall meet county
standards;
      (12)   Site plan and supporting maps indicating the following:
         (a)   Survey of land area to be developed showing topography with
existing and proposed contours at one-foot intervals, drainage, vegetation and
natural cover; and
         (b)   Detailed construction plans in conformance with the village
design criteria and construction standards and drawings along with necessary
specifications shall at a minimum consist of the following items:
            1.   The location of lot lines, building outlines and setbacks;
            2.   Pedestrian and vehicular circulation system;
            3.   Street plans including plan and profile and cross-sections;
            4.   All utility systems, including sanitary sewers; storm sewers;
and water, electric, gas, and telephone lines, including plan and profiles;
            5.   Landscaping indicating the specific types of vegetation to be
used and their location in the development;
            6.   Location of fire hydrants and fire lanes;
            7.   Any additional information in the form of written documents,
plans and supporting maps required by the Planning Commission and Village
Council in consideration of the application;
            8.   Storm water management plan, including detention and erosion
control; and
            9.   Grading plan.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.134 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A written agreement or contract shall be executed between the
developer and the village prior to approval of the final development plan
stating at least the following:
      (1)   In the event of failure of the owners, successors, or assignors to
maintain any common open space or the landscaping or improvements thereon, the
village may enter into the development and perform any necessary maintenance,
and charge the cost, including, but not limited to, engineering and attorney
fees, to the owner, successors, or assignors;
      (2)   The developer will construct the development and install
landscaping and improvements in accordance with the approved plan; and
      (3)   This contract shall be binding upon the owner, successors,
assignors or receivers of the development and shall constitute a lien on the
property. Said agreement shall be recorded with the County Recorder in a manner
that puts future property owners on notice of its requirements and application
to subject property.
   (B)   The design criteria and construction standards and drawings along with
100% surety, and 10% maintenance surety shall apply to all public improvement
construction that will eventually be taken over by the village. The 100%
performance surety and 10% maintenance surety shall follow the regulations in
the village subdivision regulations, even if a major subdivision is not
applicable.
   (C)   If the Planning Commission determines it is consistent with the public
health, safety, and general welfare and necessary for the overall development
and usefulness of the residential PUD, commercial uses may be permitted by the
Planning Commission in the development; provided they are designed and intended
primarily for the use of the residents of that development. All such uses
shall:
      (1)   Be located within a multiple dwelling, an administration building
for the development or a building providing community facilities primarily
serving the occupants of the development and their guests;
      (2)   Have no business signs, advertising or displays visible from the
outside of the building in which they are located;
      (3)   Have a total area that does not exceed 5% of the gross floor area
of all dwellings within the development;
      (4)   All exterior lighting of parking areas, buildings and attached
signs shall be so arranged as to reflect light away from adjoining premises,
and no flashing lights or signs of any kind shall be permitted, except those
required by traffic regulations;
      (5)   All buildings, structures, parking areas, and loading spaces shall
be kept and maintained in a neat and orderly manner and appearance. All areas
not occupied by buildings or structures or by parking or loading areas shall be
landscaped and maintained in a neat manner and appearance. Parking and loading
areas located across a street from facing residential premises or closer than
30 feet to the property lines of adjoining residential premises and building
entrances located closer than 50 feet to such property lines shall be
appropriately screened from such adjoining premises by means of planting,
ornamental fences or walls, or approved design; and
      (6)   In order to preserve the character of the adjacent residential
areas, no outdoor display of goods, merchandise of services, or outdoor display
or exhibit of any nature, shall be permitted. However, the BZA may, after
public hearing, authorize a specific exhibitor display for a period up to, but
not exceeding 14 days; provided that the applicant has substantiated to the
satisfaction of the BZA that such display or exhibit would be appropriate in a
residential PUD, and that the activity will not adversely affect adjoining or
nearby residential property.
   (D)   (1)   In a R-PUD, the common open space shall be owned by the
homeowners as tenants-in-common. A homeowners’ association shall be formed
prior to the conveyance of the first property, and the legal documents
establishing the association shall stipulate that the association will control
and have responsibility for maintenance of the common open space upon
conveyance of more than 50% of the lots or units in the development. Said
agreement shall be recorded with the County Recorder in a manner that puts
future property owners on notice of its requirements and application to subject
property.
      (2)   The common open space shall be protected against building
development and environmental damage by conveying to the village an open space
easement restricting building development and prohibiting removal of soil,
trees, and other natural features, except as is consistent with conservation,
recreation, or agricultural uses or uses accessory to permitted uses. This
easement shall be conveyed before recording of the final plat.
   (E)   Copies of any management policies, deed restrictions, legal
documentation, homeowner’s association agreements or covenants with the land
shall be provided to the Planning Commission prior to the approval of the final
development plan.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.135 RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT MINIMUM DESIGN
STANDARDS.
   (A)   Applicants are encouraged to use innovative design, including varying
of lot sizes and building orientation. Proposals which do not reflect these
innovations may be rejected by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   PUDs shall be designed in a manner which promotes harmonious
relationships between the development and surrounding land uses.
   (C)   Open space within a PUD may be required by the Planning Commission and
if required, shall meet the following criteria:
      (1)   No less than 20% of the total land area, exclusive of streets and
street rights-of-way, shall be devoted to common open space. In R-PUDs, this
land shall be used for recreation or conservation purposes, and in C-PUDs, this
land shall be appropriately landscaped and may contain walkways, benches, and
the like;
      (2)   The R-PUDs, at least half of the common open space shall be usable
for active recreation;
      (3)   The size, location, shape and character of the open space must be
suitable for the designated uses;
      (4)   No more than 20% of the common open space may be devoted to paved
areas (such as parking lots, walks and hard-surfaced play areas) and structures
used for or accessory to open space uses; and
      (5)   Landscape plans for the common open space must be approved by the
Planning Commission.
   (D)   Townhouses constructed in PUDs must meet the following criteria:
      (1)   No more than four contiguous townhouses shall be built in a row
with the same or approximately the same front line, and no more than eight
townhouses shall be contiguous;
      (2)   Each townhouse shall have its own yard containing no less than 400
square feet, reasonably secluded from view from streets or from neighboring
property. These yards shall not be used for off-street parking, garages,
storage facilities, driveways or accessory buildings;
      (3)   The minimum distance between any two rows of townhouse buildings
substantially parallel with each other shall be 60 feet; and
      (4)   The minimum distance between any two abutting ends of townhouse
buildings in the same general plan or row shall be 25 feet or greater.
   (E)   Parking within the PUD shall be regulated in conformance with §§
153.150 through
153.159. Parking areas containing more than 40,000 square feet shall be
landscaped in accordance with a plan approved by the Planning Commission.
   (F)   Signs in a PUD shall conform to the requirements with §§
153.170 through
153.182, except that in addition to the other permitted signs, there may be one
sign at each entrance to the development indicating the name of the
development. In residential PUDs, the signs shall not exceed 40 square feet in
size, and in commercial PUDs, the signs shall not exceed 80 square feet in
size. The Planning Commission may reduce the maximum size of the signs in
accordance with the size, design and location of the PUD.
   (G)   Street layouts to PUDs shall be designed in a manner to minimize
pavement lengths. To the extent possible, streets shall conform to the natural
contours of the land. In commercial PUDs, fire lanes shall be provided and
approved as to location and width by the Fire Department.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.136 MOBILE HOME PARK PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DESIGN STANDARDS.
   No mobile home whether left to remain on wheels or set on a fixed foundation
shall be permitted to be used for habitation in the village except in a mobile
home park. Such park shall:
   (A)   Contain a minimum of five acres;
   (B)   Provide an adequate supply of municipal water;
   (C)   Provide an adequate system of collective sanitary sewers, sewage
treatment and disposal, and refuse pickup areas. These areas must be screened
or fenced in on a hard surface area with adequate containers;
   (D)   Provide a clearly-defined minimum lot area of 4,000 square feet with a
minimum lot width/frontage of 40 feet and 600 square feet of floor area for
each mobile home;
   (E)   Provide a minimum of 20 feet clearance between the individual mobile
homes and a 50-foot setback from any property line bounding the mobile home
park;
   (F)   Require each mobile home space to abut upon an asphalt or concrete
driveway of not less than ten feet in width, which shall have unobstructed
access to a public street of not less than 36 feet in width of pavement;
   (G)   Have a safe, usable, developed recreation area conveniently located in
each mobile home park and shall not be less than 10% of the gross area of the
tract;
   (H)   Conform to all village, State Health Department and Ohio EPA
requirements;
   (I)   Be effectively screened on all sides by means of walls, fences or
plantings, except where the area is sufficiently removed from other urban uses
as determined by the Planning Commission. Walls or fences shall be a minimum of
four feet in height without advertising thereon. In lieu of such wall or fence,
a strip of land not less than ten feet in width and planted and maintained with
an evergreen hedge or dense planting of evergreen shrubs not less than four
feet in height may be substituted;
   (J)   Require proper routine maintenance;
   (K)   Require proper skirting on all mobile homes;
   (L)   Provide two off-street parking spaces for each mobile home, plus one
space per each five mobile home sites for guest parking; and
   (M)   Provide a minimum of 15 feet for a front yard setback and a minimum of
ten feet for a backyard requirement.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.137 INDUSTRIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   All land in contiguous ownership shall be shown on the plans. The
entire parcel is to be included, even if the development is to take place in
phases.
   (B)   The development shall be designed in a manner as to provide safe
access, harmonious arrangements of land uses, separation of differing modes of
transportation, areas for storm water runoff and possible retention, adequate
solid waste and sewage disposal, buffers, parking, and other utilities.
   (C)   All development which abuts land zoned residential or used for
residential purposes shall be adequately buffered from residential boundaries.
The buffer shall consist of one or more of the following items: fences, berms,
mounding, or plantings that are more than six feet tall and form a solid
barrier. Where the proposed development may produce excessive noise, traffic,
dust, glare or odor, a planted green belt up to 100 feet in depth shall be
required, and shall be considered part of the open space.
   (D)   All areas for outdoor storage of materials, waste or finished products
shall be indicated on the plans. The plans shall state the chemical composition
or form of the materials, type of storage, length of storage and height of
materials. All outdoor storage areas shall be enclosed by a wall or fence of
solid appearance or a tightly-spaced evergreen hedge to conceal the areas or
facilities from view from adjacent land uses and primary access roads.
   (E)   No raw galvanized or other raw metal sheeting or untreated concrete
block may be used for the exterior construction of any building in the I-PUD.
   (F)   All buildings shall be of designs and materials which will promote a
visually harmonious environment.
   (G)   Outdoor lighting shall not disrupt neighboring land uses by excessive
glare.
   (H)   Not more than 80% of the total land area of an industrial development
shall be devoted to structures, accessory structures, parking areas and
streets.
   (I)   All parking areas in an I-PUD shall contain landscaping in accordance
with an approved landscaping plan. The landscaping shall be completed as soon
as practicable according to weather conditions. Where permanent planting must
be delayed due to weather conditions, erosion control measures shall be
employed until the landscaping is completed.
   (J)   Erosion and runoff control measures shall be employed during
construction of buildings and improvements in an I-PUD.
   (K)   (1)   A paved road shall be provided with adequate frontage for each
structure. The road shall be constructed in conformance with standards
established by the village. Roads serving primarily non-residential traffic,
especially truck traffic, shall not normally be extended to the boundary of
adjacent land zoned for residential use or in residential use; nor shall
primarily residential roads be used for access to industrial developments. No
portion of any lot shall be paved unless in accordance with the approved site
plan.
      (2)   Loading docks, truck parking or truck turn-around areas shall be
designated through the use of signs and pavement markings. These areas shall be
separated from parking and access areas used by automobiles or pedestrians.
Roadway shall not be used for truck parking, standing or backing areas. Parking
and loading facilities shall not be located between structures and local access
streets.
      (3)   Fire lanes shall be provided at all entrances to and exits from
structures and storage areas and at all locations of hydrants. Fire lanes shall
be designated by signs and pavement markings.
      (4)   All rail lines, sidings or switching facilities shall be indicated
on the site plan. The village may require additional vehicular or pedestrian
crossings.
   (L)   Any applicant for approval of a I-PUD under the provisions of this
section shall comply with all applicable local, state, and federal standards
relating to air and water quality, heat, noise, glare, and odor. The applicant
also shall comply with any applicable environmental standards which have been
approved by the Village Council.
   (M)   Signs within an I-PUD shall be regulated in conformance with §§
153.170 through
153.182, except that in addition to the other permitted signs, there may be one
sign no more than 100 square feet in area at each entrance to the development.
Such signs shall be for the purpose of identifying the overall development.
   (N)   Parking within an I-PUD shall be regulated in conformance with §§
153.150 through
153.159.
   (O)   The maximum height of buildings in the I-PUD shall be 40 feet. All
other structures shall comply with this Zoning Code.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.138 EXPIRATION AND EXTENSION OF APPROVAL PERIOD.
   The approval of a final development plan for a PUD District shall be for a
period not to exceed three years to allow for preparation and recording of the
required subdivision plat and development of the project. If no construction
has begun within one year after approval is granted, the approved final
development plan shall be void and the land shall revert to the district
regulations of the district in which it is located. An extension of the time
limit or modification of the approved final development plan may be approved if
the Planning Commission finds that such extension is not in conflict with the
public interest. No zoning amendment passed during the time period granted for
the final approved final development plan shall in any way affect the terms
under which approval of the PUD was granted.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING FACILITIES
§ 153.150 INTENT.
   The intent of the off-street parking and loading regulations is to protect
the public health, safety and welfare by ensuring that all land uses have
adequate amounts of off-street parking and loading areas in order to not create
traffic hazards on public streets.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.151 GENERAL PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
    In all districts, at any time any building, structure, or use of land is
erected, enlarged, increased in capacity, or used, there shall be provided for
every use off-street parking spaces for automobiles. A parking plan shall be
required for all uses except for single- or two-family residential uses. The
parking plan shall be submitted to the Village Administrator as part of the
application for a building/zoning permit. The plan shall show the boundaries of
the property, parking spaces, access driveways, circulation patterns, drainage
and construction plans, and boundary walls, fences, and a screening plan, as
appropriate.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.152 OFF-STREET PARKING DESIGN STANDARDS.
   All off-street parking facilities including entrances, exits, maneuvering
areas, and parking spaces shall be in accordance with the following standards
and specifications.
   (A)   Parking space dimensions. Each off-street parking space shall have an
area of not less than 162 square feet exclusive of access drives or aisles, and
shall be of usable shape and condition.
   (B)   Access. There shall be adequate provisions for ingress and egress to
all parking spaces. Where the lot or parking spaces do not provide direct
access to a public street, an access drive shall be provided, with a dedicated
easement of access, as follows:
      (1)   For a single-, two-, or multi-family residential dwelling, the
access drive shall be a minimum of ten feet in width;
      (2)   For all other residential uses and all other uses, the access drive
shall be a minimum of 18 feet in width; and
      (3)   All parking spaces, except those required for single-, two-, or
multi-family dwellings, shall have access to a public street in such a manner
that any vehicle leaving or entering the parking area from or into a public
street or alley shall be traveling in a forward motion.
   (C)   Setbacks. In C and I Districts, off-street parking spaces may be
located in the required front yard on lots where business or industry is
located; provided that a ten-foot grass area is located between the parking
area and the street right-of-way, and that one tree for every 30 feet of
frontage is planted in this grass area.
   (D)   Screening. In addition to the setback requirements specified in this
Zoning Code for off-street parking facilities for more than five vehicles,
screening shall be provided on each side of a parking area that abuts any
residential district. Screening shall comply with §
153.059.
   (E)   Paving. All required parking spaces together with driveways, and other
circulation areas, shall be dust-free and of a hard-surface with a pavement
having an asphalt or concrete binder, such as concrete, asphalt, double chip
and seal, or paver bricks; provided, however, that variances for parking
related to school auditoriums, assembly areas, sports fields, and other
community meeting or recreation areas may be granted; provided that paved areas
shall be provided for daily-use parking areas. Owners/builders may petition the
Planning Commission with regards to this section. If the Planning Commission
determines that a non-hard surface is not detrimental to immediate neighbors
and the Comprehensive Zoning Plan, it may grant a variance by majority vote.
Where paving is not required, proper dust control measures shall be undertaken
and maintained.
   (F)   Drainage. All parking spaces, together with driveways, aisles, and
other circulation areas shall be graded and drained so as to dispose of surface
water which might accumulate within or upon such area, and shall be designed to
prevent the excess drainage of surface water onto adjacent properties,
walkways, or onto the public streets. Adequate arrangements shall be made to
ensure acceptable diversion to an adequate storm water drainage system.
Drainage shall also meet the requirements of the village design criteria and
construction standards and drawings.
   (G)   Barriers. Wherever a parking lot extends to a property line, fencing,
wheel stops, curbs, or other suitable barriers shall be provided in order to
prevent any part of a parked vehicle from extending beyond the property line.
   (H)   Visibility. Access of driveways for parking areas shall be located in
such a way that any vehicle entering or leaving such parking area shall be
clearly visible for a reasonable distance by any pedestrian or motorist
approaching the access or driveway from a public or private street or alley.
   (I)   Marking. All parking areas for ten or more spaces shall be marked with
paint lines, curb stones or in some other manner approved by the Village
Administrator, and shall be maintained in a clearly visible condition.
   (J)   Maintenance. Any owner of property used for parking areas shall
maintain such areas in good condition without potholes and free of all dust,
trash or other debris.
   (K)   Signs. Where necessary due to multiple curb cuts, the entrances, exits
and the intended circulation pattern of the parking area shall be clearly
marked.
   (L)   Lighting. Any lights used to illuminate a parking lot shall be so
arranged as to direct the light away from the adjoining property in any R
Residential District.
   (M)    Parking space dimensi ons. The minimu m dimensi ons of parking spaces
shall be as illustrat ed below:
 
Off-Street Parking Minimum Dimensional Table
                           45°60°90°Parallel
A Width of parking space   12' 10' 9'  9'
B Length of parking space  19' 19' 19' 23'
C Width of driveway aisle  13' 17' 25' 12'
D Width of access driveway 17' 14' 14' 14'
 
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002; Ord. 10-15, passed 6-22-2010)
§ 153.153 DETERMINATION OF REQUIRED SPACES.
   In computing the number of parking spaces required by this Zoning Code, the
following shall apply:
   (A)   Where floor area is designated as the standard for determining parking
space requirements, floor area shall be the sum of the gross horizontal area of
all the floors of a non-residential building measured from the faces of the
exterior walls;
   (B)   Where seating capacity is the standard for determining parking space
requirements, the capacity shall mean the number of seating units installed or
indicated or each 24 linear inches of benches or pews, except where occupancy
standards are set by the Fire Marshal; and
   (C)   Fractional numbers shall be increased to the next whole number.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.154 JOINT OR COLLECTIVE PARKING FACILITIES.
   The joint or collective provision of required off-street parking areas shall
comply with the following standards and requirements.
   (A)   All required parking spaces shall be located on the same lot with the
building or use served, except that where an increase in the number of spaces
is required by a change or enlargement of use, or where such spaces are
provided collectively or used jointly by two or more buildings or
establishments, the required spaces may be located not farther than 500 feet
from the building served.
   (B)   Not more than 50% of the parking spaces required for theaters, bowling
alleys, dance halls, night clubs, taverns, and similar uses, and up to 100% of
the parking spaces required for churches, schools, auditoriums, and similar
uses may be provided and jointly used by banks, offices, retail stores, repair
shops, service establishments, and similar uses that are not normally open,
used, or operated during the same hours as the uses with which such spaces are
jointly or collectively used.
   (C)   In any case where the required parking spaces are not located on the
same lot with the building or use served, or where such spaces are collectively
or jointly provided and used, a written agreement thereby assuring their
retention for such purposes shall be properly drawn and executed by the parties
concerned, approved as to form by legal counsel, and filed with the application
for a building/zoning permit.
   (D)   All required parking spaces together with driveways, and other
circulation areas, shall be dust-free and of a hard-surface with a pavement
having an asphalt or concrete binder, such as concrete, asphalt, double chip
and seal, or paver bricks; provided, however, that variances for parking
related to school auditoriums, assembly areas, sports fields, and other
community meeting or recreation areas may be granted; provided that paved areas
shall be provided for daily-use parking areas. Owners/builders may petition the
Planning Commission with regards to this section. If the Planning Commission
determines that a non-hard surface is not detrimental to immediate neighbors
and the Comprehensive Zoning Plan, it may grant a variance by majority vote.
Where paving is not required, proper dust control measures shall be undertaken
and maintained.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.155 OFF-STREET STORAGE AREAS FOR DRIVE-IN SERVICES.
   Establishments which by their nature create lines of customers waiting to be
served within automobiles shall provide off-street storage areas in accordance
with the following requirements.
   (A)   Photo pickups, restaurants, drive-through beverage docks and other
similar commercial establishments that can normally serve customers in three
minutes or less shall provide no less than five storage spaces per pickup
facility. Drive-in restaurants and other similar uses which require an
additional stopping point for ordering shall provide a minimum of three
additional storage spaces for each such stopping point.
   (B)   Other commercial establishments such as banks, savings and loan
offices, or other similar facilities with service or money windows shall
provide no less than four storage spaces per window.
   (C)   Motor vehicle service stations shall provide no less than two storage
spaces for each accessible side of a gasoline pump island. Gasoline pumps shall
not be located closer than 15 feet to any street right-of-way line.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.156 PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   The amount of required off-street parking spaces for new uses or buildings,
additions thereto, and additions to existing buildings shall be determined in
accordance with the following minimum requirements. However, no parking area
shall project into a required front yard in any residential district or be
permitted between the curb line and property lines (within the right-of-way) in
any district, except as otherwise provided. The number of parking spaces
required for uses not specifically mentioned shall be determined by the BZA.
The determination shall be based upon the expected number of parking spaces the
particular type of use would require to satisfy estimated peak parking load
requirements.
   (A)   Residential uses.
      (1)   Single-family detached dwellings: two spaces per dwelling unit;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings: two spaces per dwelling unit;
      (3)   Multi-family dwellings: two spaces per dwelling unit; and
      (4)   Mobile home courts: two spaces per mobile home site, plus one space
per each five mobile home sites for guest parking.
   (B)   Institutional and public uses.
      (1)   Elementary and junior high schools: one space per employee, plus
one space per two classrooms;
      (2)   High schools: one space per employee, plus one space per six
students at capacity;
      (3)   Places of worship: one space per four seats at maximum capacity of
the main sanctuary;
      (4)   Public offices and public buildings: one space for every 250 square
feet of gross floor area;
      (5)   Nursing and convalescent homes, including extended care facilities
and rest homes: one space per six beds, plus one space for each staff and
employee on the largest work shift;
      (6)   Community centers, libraries, museums, and other establishments of
historical, educational, and cultural interest: one space per 250 square feet
of gross interior floor area, plus one space per employee on the largest work
shift;
      (7)   Child day care centers: one space per employee, plus one space per
five children at capacity, plus a drop-off area as determined by the Public
Works Director/Village Administrator; and
      (8)   Hospitals: one space for every two beds, plus one space for each
staff and employee on the largest work shift.
   (C)   Business and professional offices.
      (1)   Business, professional, and administrative offices and offices for
professional associations: one space per 300 square feet of gross floor area,
but not less than two spaces per office; and
      (2)   Medical offices and clinics: three spaces per treatment or
examination room or chair, plus one space per staff and employee, but not fewer
than five spaces per practitioner.
   (D)   Commercial uses.
      (1)   Financial establishments, banks, and savings and loan associations:
one space per 200 square feet of gross floor area, plus one space per employee
on the largest work shift, plus five off-street waiting spaces per drive-in
window or drive-through teller machine;
      (2)   General merchandise stores: one space for each 150 square feet of
gross floor area used for sales and display and one space for every 250 square
feet of storage, warehouse, and office area;
      (3)   Restaurants: one space per 100 square feet of gross floor area,
plus one space per employee on the largest work shift;
      (4)   Automobile service stations and automobile repair, painting, and
body shops: two spaces for each service bay, plus one space for each employee
and service vehicle, with a minimum of six spaces;
      (5)   Automobile washing facilities: one space for each employee with a
minimum of four spaces, plus five off-street waiting spaces for each car
washing device or stall, or five off-street waiting spaces for an assembly line
type washing establishment, and two parking spaces at the end of each washing
bay for drying and hand-finishing vehicles;
      (6)   Convenience food stores, carry-outs and mini-markets: one and one-
half spaces for every 200 square feet of floor area, plus one space for each
employee;
      (7)   Drive-through and drive-in stores, and stand-alone automatic teller
machines: one space for each employee, plus off-street waiting space for five
vehicles per transaction location, plus one space for each 200 square feet of
sales area open to the public;
      (8)   Fraternal and social associations, dance halls, bingo halls, and
private clubs: one space for every 50 square feet of floor area in assembly or
meeting rooms, plus one space for every 200 square feet of other floor area;
      (9)   Restaurants, fast food: one space per 50 gross square feet of floor
area, plus one space per employee on the largest work shift with a minimum of
15 total spaces and with off-street automobile waiting space for eight vehicles
for each drive-in window, with such automobile waiting space to be located
behind the point where a drive-in order is placed;
      (10)   Bars, taverns and nightclubs: one space for each three persons of
capacity, plus one space for each employee on the largest work shift;
      (11)   Vehicle sales, rental and service: one parking space for each 800
square feet of floor area, plus one space for each 3,000 square feet of open
lot area devoted to the sale, rental and display of motor vehicles;
      (12)   Animal hospitals and veterinary clinics: three spaces for each
treatment area, plus one space for each staff and employee;
      (13)   Commercial schools and studios: one space for every three students
at capacity and one space for each employee;
      (14)   Funeral homes and mortuaries: one space for every 50 square feet
of public floor area, plus one space for each employee, plus one space for each
business vehicle;
      (15)   Home furnishings and home improvement stores: one space for each
400 square feet of indoor and outdoor sales, and display area, and one space
for each 800 square feet of office, storage, and warehouse area;
      (16)   Nurseries and garden supply stores: one space for each employee on
the largest shift, one space for each 200 square feet of gross floor area of
inside sales or display, and one space for each 1,000 square feet of exterior
sales and display area;
      (17)   Business and cleaning services: one space for every 300 square
feet of sales and office area, plus one space for every employee on the largest
work shift, plus one space for every company or service vehicle regularly
stored on the premises;
      (18)   Bowling alleys: five spaces for each alley, plus any additional
spaces required for a bar, restaurant or accessory structure;
      (19)   Dance, bingo, assembly and exhibition halls: one space for every
50 square feet of floor area;
      (20)   Game rooms and pool halls: one space for every two patrons at a
maximum capacity, plus one space for every two employees on the largest work
shift;
      (21)   Miniature golf: one and one-half spaces per hole, plus one space
per employee on the largest work shift;
      (22)   Theaters and concert, meeting, and banquet halls: one space for
every two and one-half seats at capacity; and
      (23)   Hotels and motels: one space per room or suite, plus one space for
every three employees on the largest work shift, plus one space per three
persons to the maximum capacity of each public meeting and/or banquet room,
plus 50% of the spaces otherwise required for accessory structures (e.g.,
restaurants and bars).
   (E)   Industrial uses.
      (1)   Manufacturing industry and warehouse: one space for each employee
on the largest work shift, plus one visitor parking space for every 10,000
square feet of floor area, plus one space for every company vehicle regularly
stored on the premises. Land must be available for possible future parking lot
requirements at a minimum of one space for each 1,000 square feet of floor
area;
      (2)   Self-service storage facilities: one space for every 4,000 square
feet of gross floor area, plus one space per employee on the largest work
shift;
      (3)   Wholesaling and storage facilities: one space for every 300 square
feet of office and sales area, plus one space for every 4,000 square feet of
warehouse and storage area, plus one space per employee on the largest work
shift;
      (4)   Construction trades, contractor offices and industrial craft shops:
one space for every 300 square feet of floor area, plus one space for every
motor vehicle used by the business in its normal business affairs;
      (5)   Lumberyards and building materials; sales and storage: one space
for each 800 square feet of floor area, plus one space for every 3,000 square
feet of lot area devoted to the storage and display of building materials; and
      (6)   Heavy equipment rental, sales, service and storage: one space for
every 800 square feet of floor area, plus one space for every 3,000 square feet
of lot area devoted to the sale and display of vehicles.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.157 HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   Parking facilities serving buildings and facilities required to be
accessible to the physically handicapped shall have conveniently located
designated spaces provided as follows or by current ADA standards.
 
Total Spaces in Lot/Structure Number of Designated Accessible Spaces
Up to 100                     1 space per 25 parking spaces
101 to 200                    4 spaces, plus 1 per 50 spaces over 100
201 to 500                    6 spaces, plus 1 per 75 spaces over 200
Over 500                      10 spaces, plus 1 per 100 spaces over 500
 
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.158 OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   In any district in connection with every building or part thereof hereafter
erected and having a gross floor area of 3,000 square feet or more, which is to
be occupied by manufacturing, storage, warehouse, goods display, retail store,
wholesale store, hotel, hospital, mortuary, laundry, dry cleaning, or other
uses similarly requiring the receipt or distribution by vehicles of material or
merchandise, there shall be provided and maintained, on the same lot with the
building, at least one off-street loading space, and one additional loading
space for each 10,000 square feet or fraction thereof of gross floor area so
used in excess of 3,000 square feet.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.159 OFF-STREET LOADING DESIGN STANDARDS.
   All off-street loading spaces shall comply with the following standards and
specifications.
   (A)   Loading space dimensions. Each loading space shall have minimum
dimensions not less than 12 feet in width, 65 feet in length and a vertical
clearance of not less than 14 feet.
   (B)   Screening. In addition to the setback requirements specified above,
screening shall be provided on each side of an off-street loading space that
abuts any residential district. Screening shall comply with §
153.059.
   (C)   Access. All required off-street loading spaces shall have access from
a public street in such a manner that any vehicle leaving the premises shall be
traveling in a forward motion.
   (D)   Paving. All required off-street loading spaces together with
driveways, aisles and other circulation areas, shall be surfaced with an
asphaltic or Portland cement binder pavement in order to provide a durable or
dust-free surface.
   (E)   Drainage. All loading spaces, together with driveways, aisles and
other circulation areas, shall be designed to prevent the excess drainage of
surface water onto adjacent properties, walkways or onto the public streets.
Arrangements shall be made to ensure acceptable diversion to an adequate storm
water drainage system. Drainage shall also meet the requirements of the village
design criteria and construction standards and drawings.
   (F)   Lighting. Any lights used to illuminate a loading area shall be so
arranged as to reflect the light away from adjoining property.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
SIGNAGE
§ 153.170 INTENT.
   The intent of this subchapter is to establish and enforce standards
regarding the existence, size, location, construction and manner of display of
signs placed in the village in order to promote and protect the public health,
safety, and morals, and to enhance the physical and economic well being of the
community. It is further intended to reduce sign or advertising clutter,
distractions and obstructions that may contribute to traffic accidents; reduce
hazards that may be caused by signs projecting into or over public rights-of-
way; curb the deterioration of the natural environment; and to support and
complement the land use objectives of the community.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.171 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The regulations contained in subchapter shall apply to signs placed in any
and all zoning districts within the village. Divisions (A) and (B) of this
section shall not apply to any sign performing a public service function by
indicating time, temperature, traffic and/or road conditions, or similar
services.
   (A)   All illuminated signs shall employ a lighting device that only allows
for the emission of light in constant intensity; and no sign shall be
illuminated by or contain flashing, intermittent, rotating or moving light(s).
In no event shall an illuminated sign or lighting device be placed or directed
so as to permit the beams and illumination to cause glare or reflection that
may constitute a traffic hazard or nuisance. This division shall not apply to
any sign performing a public service function indicating time, temperature or
similar service.
   (B)   No sign shall employ parts or elements which revolve, rotate, whirl,
spin or otherwise make use of motion to attract attention. This division shall
not apply to any sign performing a public service function indicating time,
temperature or similar service.
   (C)   Signs erected and maintained pursuant to and as required by law, any
governmental function, ordinance or governmental regulation shall be excluded
from the regulations contained herein.
   (D)   Regulation of signs along interstate and primary highways shall
conform to the requirements of R.C. Chapter 5516 and the regulations adopted
pursuant thereto.
   (E)   No sign shall be placed in any public right-of-way except publicly-
owned signs, such as traffic control and directional signs.
   (F)   Should any sign be or become unsafe or be in danger of falling, the
owner thereof or the person maintaining the sign shall, upon receipt of written
notice from the Zoning Administrator, proceed at once to put such sign in a
safe and secure condition or remove the sign altogether.
   (G)   No sign of any type shall be installed, erected, or attached in any
form, shape, or manner to a fire escape or any door or window giving access to
any fire escape.
   (H)   No sign shall be attached to or supported by a tree, utility pole,
trash receptacle, bench or public shelter.
   (I)   No sign shall be located nearer than eight feet vertically or four
feet horizontally from any overhead electrical wires, conductors, or guy wires
and shall comply with all safety requirements of the appropriate public
utility.
   (J)   (1)   The continuance of an existing sign that does not meet the
regulations and requirements of this Zoning Code shall be deemed a legal, non-
conforming sign. This status shall remain in effect until such sign has been
determined to be abandoned, which occurs when any of the following conditions
are present:
         (a)   The sign is associated with an abandoned use;
         (b)   The sign remains after a business has been closed to the public
for at least 90 consecutive days. Seasonal businesses are exempt from this
determination; and
         (c)   The sign is not maintained and intact and supports, braces, guys
and anchors are in a state of disrepair.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall take into account the above factors
when making a determination as to what constitutes abandonment. If, upon
finding that the signage is abandoned, the right to maintain and use such sign
shall terminate immediately.
   (K)   No sign legally in existence at the time of the passage of this Zoning
Code shall be replaced, changed, or altered unless the new or altered sign
conforms to the provisions of this Zoning Code. Any modification, including
size, dimensions, location, word, letters, electrification or configuration,
shall constitute an alteration or change. However, maintenance of such sign in
its exact condition and message does not constitute a change or alteration.
This Zoning Code shall not apply to the message content of existing changeable
copy signs.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.172 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED SIGN. A sign which no longer identifies or advertises a bona fide
business, lessor, service, owner, product or activity, and/or for which no
legal owner can be found.
   AWNING. A shelter projecting from and supported by the exterior wall of a
building and constructed of non-rigid materials on a supporting framework.
   AWNING SIGN. A sign painted on, printed on or attached flat against the
surface of an awning.
   BENCH SIGN. Advertising or business signs painted on or affixed to a bench,
chair, seat, or other structure or device designed or used for sitting
purposes.
   BULLETIN BOARD. Any sign erected by a charitable, educational or religious
institution, or public body which is posted upon the same property as such
institution, for purposes of announcing events which are held upon the premises
and contains no commercial message.
   CANOPY. A structure (other than an awning) made of cloth, metal or other
material with frames affixed to a building and carried by a frame which is
supported by the ground.
   COMMERCIAL MESSAGE. Any sign wording, logo, or other representation that,
directly or indirectly, names, advertises, or calls attention to a business,
product, service, or other commercial activity.
   DIRECTIONAL/INFORMATIONAL SIGN. A sign, providing no advertising of any
kind, which provides direction or instruction to guide persons to facilities
intended to serve the public, such as public telephones, restrooms, walkways,
parking areas and other similar facilities.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. A sign supported upon the ground by poles, braces or
posts and not attached to any building.
   MAINTENANCE. The cleaning, painting, repair, or replacement of defective
parts of a sign in a manner that does not alter the basic copy, design, or
structure of the sign.
   MARQUEE. A permanent roof-like structure extending from the wall of a
building, but not supported by the ground and constructed of durable material
such as metal, wood or glass.
   OFF-PREMISE SIGN. A sign which directs attention to a business, profession,
activity, commodity, service, or entertainment other than one conducted, sold,
or offered upon the premises where such sign is located.
   ON-PREMISE SIGN. A sign which pertains to the use of the premises on which
it is located.
   PORTABLE SIGN. A sign not permanently affixed to the ground, a building, or
other structure, which may be moved from place to place, including, but not
limited to, signs designed to be transported by means of wheels, menu, and
sandwich board signs, and signs attached to or painted on vehicles parked and
visible from the public right-of-way, unless such vehicle is used in the day-
to-day operations of the business.
   PROJECTING SIGN. A sign that is affixed to and extends beyond the building,
wall or other structure to which it is attached.
   ROOF SIGN. A sign erected, painted on, or attached in any manner in whole or
in part upon, against, or directly above the roof or parapet line of a
building.
   SIGN. Any fabricated sign or display structure, including the structure
itself and any letter, figure, character, mark, point, plane, marquee sign,
design, poster, pictorial, picture, stripe, line, trademark, reading matter, or
illuminating device, which is constructed, attached, erected, fastened, or
manufactured in any manner whatsoever so that the same shall be used for the
attraction of the public to any place, subject, person, firm, corporation,
public performance, article, machine, or merchandise whatsoever, and displayed
in any manner for recognized advertising purposes.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. A non-permanent sign erected, affixed and maintained on a
premises for a short, usually fixed, period of time.
   WALL SIGN. A sign painted on or mounted against, a building, structure or
wall.
   WINDOW SIGN. A sign attached to, placed upon, or painted on the window or
door of a building which is intended for viewing from the exterior of such
building.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.173 MEASUREMENT OF SIGN AREA.
   The area of a sign face shall be computed by means of the smallest circle,
rectangle, triangle, or combination thereof that will encompass the extreme
limits of the writing, representation, emblem, or other display, together with
any material or color forming an integral part of the background of the display
or used to differentiate the sign from the backdrop or structure against which
it is placed, but not including any supporting framework or housing.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.174 ON-PREMISE SIGNS EXEMPTED FROM PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   The following types of on-premise, permit-exempt signs shall be in
conformance with the requirements listed below:
   (A)   Construction signs shall be six square feet or less;
   (B)   Directional/informational signs shall be four square feet or less and
limited to four such signs per lot;
   (C)   One non-illuminated nameplate indicating a home occupation or
profession shall be four square feet or less and flush-mounted on the principal
structure;
   (D)   Signs denoting the name and address of the occupants of the premises
shall not exceed two square feet in area and shall contain no designations or
references to home occupations or professions;
   (E)   Governmental signs or notices used for transportation, emergency or
public information purposes;
   (F)   Any sign advertising the sale, lease or rental of the premises upon
which the sign is located shall not exceed 12 square feet in area with the
exception of residential districts, where the area of the sign shall not exceed
six square feet. Such signs shall be removed within ten days after the sale,
lease or rental has been concluded;
   (G)   Political signs, placards, or posters concerning candidates or issues
for election shall be posted no more than 60 days before an election and shall
be removed within seven days following the close of the election event and
shall not exceed six square feet in area;
   (H)   Warning signs, such as but not limited to “No Trespassing,” “No
Hunting”, “No Dumping,” “Keep Off The Grass” and the like shall be four square
feet or less;
   (I)   Window signs shall not exceed 25% of the window surface;
   (J)   One temporary sign not exceeding 24 square feet in area on the
premises of an institutional use, announcing special public events such as
fairs, carnivals, festivals, charitable, or similar activities, when the same
are located on the premises of such institutions may be erected for a period
not to exceed 30 days. Such signs shall be removed within three days of the
final day of the event; and
   (K)   Cornerstones, commemorative markers or tablets, and historical signs
shall be limited in size to nine square feet.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.175 SIGNS REQUIRING A PERMIT.
   All signs not specifically included under §
153.174 shall require the issuance of a sign permit. Signs shall be classified
by location (on-premises and off-premises) and by type (wall, projecting,
freestanding, roof, window and interstate). The requirements for on-premises
signs listed in §§
153.176 and
153.177 are established per zoning district.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.176 ON-PREMISE SIGNS PERMITTED IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES.
   The following signs are allowable in any R-1, R-2 or R-3 Residential
District:
   (A)   All signs as permitted in §
153.174, not requiring a permit;
   (B)   A permanent residential subdivision sign that identifies the name of
the complex or subdivision may be located within the subdivision, provided:
      (1)   No such sign shall exceed 24 square feet in identification display
area;
      (2)   All such signs shall be set back a minimum of 15 feet from any
right-of-way or adjoining property line;
      (3)   No such sign or any portion of its supporting structure shall
exceed six feet in height from grade; and
      (4)   All such signs are to be illuminated through indirect lighting
methods only.
   (C)   Identification signs for churches, schools, community centers, or
other public or semi-public buildings, or institutional uses, provided:
      (1)   No such sign shall exceed 32 square feet in identification display
area;
      (2)   All such signs shall set back a minimum of ten feet from any street
right-of-way or adjoining property line; and
      (3)   No such sign or any portion of its supporting structure shall
exceed six feet in height from grade.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.177 ON-PREMISE SIGNS PERMITTED IN BUSINESS AND INDUSTRIAL ZONES.
   (A)   Wall signs. A wall sign may be painted on or attached to the exterior
surface of a building, structure or wall. Each business in the C-1, C-2 and
Industrial Districts shall be permitted wall signs that conform to the
following:
      (1)   The total area of all wall signs shall not exceed the aggregate
three square feet of area for each linear foot of lot frontage;
      (2)   A wall sign shall project not more than two feet horizontally from
a building facade. A wall sign shall not project more than tree feet above the
average height of the roof of the structure involved. However, no sign shall be
erected on a roof in any district; and
      (3)   A wall sign may project downward from a fixed awning only so far as
shall allow a minimum of nine feet of vertical clearance from grade to the
bottom of the sign.
   (B)   Projecting signs. Projecting signs are permitted only in the C-
1 District. One projecting sign is allowed per building per street frontage.
Such signs shall project not more than four feet outward from the wall of the
structure, shall not exceed 20 square feet in area and shall be perpendicular
to the wall of the structure to which they are attached. All projecting signs
shall be located not less than nine feet above the finished sidewalk or ground
level. Such signs shall be of sturdy construction and shall be erected in such
a manner as to protect persons who pass underneath from possible injury. Sign
users who place projecting signs over the public right-of-way shall assume sole
liability for such sign.
   (C)   Freestanding signs. Freestanding signs shall be supported upon the
ground by poles, braces, or posts, and shall be permitted in C-1, C-2 and I
(Industrial) Districts in accordance with the following requirements.
      (1)   There shall not be more than one freestanding, on-premise sign per
business activity along each street frontage the use abuts. Where commercial
uses are located on the same property with common features, such as shopping
centers or commercial complexes, all such on-premise signs shall be supported
by only one structure per lot with street frontage.
      (2)   Freestanding signs shall not be located upon or project over any
right-of-way.
      (3)   Freestanding signs shall not obstruct or adversely affect vision
clearance or traffic visibility.
      (4)   The maximum height from grade for freestanding signs shall be not
more than 20 feet in the C-1 District and 30 feet in the C-2 and I (Industrial)
Districts.
      (5)   The maximum area size for freestanding signs shall not be larger
than 40 square feet in the C-1 District and 100 square feet in the C-2 and I
(Industrial) Districts.
      (6)   Freestanding signs shall not measure less than nine feet from grade
to the lowest point of the sign or its supporting structure if such sign is
designed and/or located to allow pedestrian traffic to pass underneath; for
vehicle passage under the sign the minimum clearance from grade is 15 feet.
      (7)   All freestanding signs shall be located a minimum of 25 feet from
any adjoining property line or residential district.
      (8)   Freestanding signs that are of a temporary or portable nature may
be permitted in addition to permanently-mounted, freestanding signs, subject to
the following provisions:
         (a)   All portable and/or temporary signs shall comply with §
153.171 as it regards lighting;
         (b)   Such signs, when located in the C-1 District, shall not exceed
24 square feet in area; when located in C-2 and I (Industrial) Districts,
portable and temporary signs shall not exceed 50 square feet in area;
         (c)   No portable or temporary sign shall exceed six feet in height
from grade;
         (d)   No portable or temporary sign shall be located in a manner that
obstructs or adversely affects traffic visibility;
         (e)   Not more than one portable or temporary sign shall be permitted
for each complete 100 feet of lot frontage on public streets (individually-
owned lots that are less than 100 feet in width shall also be permitted one
such sign);
         (f)   No portable or temporary sign shall be placed in the public
right-of-way;
         (g)   A temporary, non-portable sign announcing the construction of a
building and the architects, builders, contractors, and the like, involved may
be erected upon the premises for a period of 30 consecutive days in addition to
the construction period;
         (h)   Portable and/or temporary signs shall be permitted for a period
not to exceed 21 days, a maximum of four times per year. Temporary signs
consisting of banners, posters, pennants, ribbons, streamers, spinners, or
other moving devices, as well as air-activated graphics or balloons used for
commercial or other advertising purposes shall be permitted for a period of not
more than 14 consecutive days, renewable not more than two times per annum by
the same business; and
         (i)   It shall be the responsibility of the applicant or owner of the
sign to maintain the portable or temporary sign in a sound and safe condition
and to remove such signs when the allowable time limit has expired.
   (D)   Marquee, awning and canopy signs. Marquee, awning, and canopy signs
shall be permitted in all commercial and industrial districts subject to the
following provisions.
      (1)   The total area of such signs shall not exceed the aggregate two
square feet of area for each linear foot of building frontage and, if combined
with wall signs, the total area of all signage shall not exceed the aggregate
three square feet of area for each linear foot of building frontage.
      (2)   Sign area limits shall be defined as the rectangular space occupied
by the sign lettering or insignia and the space immediately surrounding such
lettering or insignia.
      (3)   Signs shall not project more than three feet horizontally from a
building facade over a public right-of-way, and not more than six feet
horizontally from a building facade over private property.
      (4)   Such signs shall have a minimum clearance of nine feet above the
sidewalk grade or the edge of roadway grade nearest the sign and shall not be
located closer than two feet from the curb of any roadway.
      (5)   Overall height should not exceed three feet above the average
height of the roof line or the parapet wall of the building to which it is
attached, and should not exceed the allowable building height for that zoning
district.
      (6)   Such signs shall be limited to single-story buildings or to the
first level only of multi-story buildings.
   (E)   Window signs. Window signs are only permitted in the ground or first
floor windows of all commercial and industrial districts. No window sign shall
occupy more than 25% of the total window surface on a given side of the
building.
   (F)   Enter/exit signs. Enter/exit signs may be permitted in addition to
freestanding signs, subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   All enter/exit signs shall comply with §
153.171 as it regards lighting.
      (2)   No enter/exit signs shall be permitted in the right-of-way of any
street or alley.
      (3)   The area of such signs shall not exceed two square feet.
      (4)   Not more than one enter and one exit sign shall be permitted for
each lot. Corner lots may be permitted one additional enter and exit sign;
provided there is an access to the public street on both street frontages.
      (5)   No lettering or sign message other than “enter” and “exit” shall be
permitted.
      (6)   The maximum height for an enter/exit sign shall be three feet, and
such sign shall not be located in a manner that obstructs or adversely affects
traffic visibility.
   (G)   Interstate signs. Signs that are not attached to a building, that are
less than 1,900 feet from the centerline of an interstate highway right-of-way,
that are at least 25 feet in height and that are intended to be read from the
interstate highway. An interstate sign is an accessory use that directs
attention to an on-premise business, enterprise or activity located upon a
property that adjoins an interstate highway. A business may be permitted an
interstate sign as a conditional use, subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   Signs must conform to the requirements established under R.C.
Chapter 5516.
      (2)   Signs shall not be closer than 25 feet to any right-of-way line.
      (3)   Signs shall not be closer than 15 feet to any adjoining property
line.
      (4)   Signs shall not be larger than 400 square feet in area.
      (5)   Signs shall measure not more than 90 feet in height from the ground
elevation on which it is located.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.178 OFF-PREMISE SIGNS.
   Off-premise signs direct attention to a commodity or service not offered
upon the premises upon which the advertising sign is located. Such signs,
commonly recognized as advertising signs and billboards, shall only be
permitted in the C-2 and I (Industrial) Districts, subject to the following
provisions.
   (A)   Off-premise signs shall conform to the front yard setback requirements
normally associated with the principal building or use setbacks of the
respective district.
   (B)   Off-premise signs may be placed back-to-back using common supports or
be otherwise physically attached to one another; provided, however, that not
more than two such signs are so attached upon a common support.
   (C)   Two or more freestanding off-premise signs may be placed on the same
parcel; provided that no other principal use occupies the parcel and all off-
premise signs are at least 300 feet apart, including off-premise signs on
adjacent parcels and across street rights-of-way.
   (D)   No off-premise sign or structure shall be permitted which faces the
front or side lot line of any residential district within 100 feet of such lot
line, or which faces any public parkway, public square, park, educational
institution, library, church, or similar institution within 300 feet thereof.
   (E)   Under no circumstances shall an off-premise sign be located within any
right-of-way.
   (F)   Off-premise signs shall not exceed 400 square feet in area and shall
conform to the height requirements of the zoning district within which it is
placed.
   (G)   Off-premise signs placed along an interstate highway must conform to
the requirements established under R.C. Chapter 5516, applicable federal law,
and §
153.177(G).
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.179 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   In addition to any restrictions and/or prohibitions stated above, the
following signs, sign configurations and characteristics shall not be allowed
in any zoning district within the village.
   (A)   No abandoned or dilapidated signs, as deemed by the Zoning
Administrator and referred to in §
153.171(J), shall be allowed to exist.
   (B)   No sign shall contain or consist of banners, posters, pennants,
ribbons, streamers, spinners, or other similar moving devices for the purpose
of advertising or attracting attention to any commercial enterprise, except as
noted in §
153.177(C)(8)(h).
   (D)   Air-activated graphics or balloons used for commercial or advertising
reasons shall not be permitted, except as noted in §
153.177(C)(8)(h).
   (D)   No sign shall imitate, resemble, or duplicate any official traffic or
governmental sign or signal.
   (E)   Signs placed on vehicles or trailers which are parked or located for
the primary purpose of displaying an advertising content shall not be
permitted. This restriction does not apply to signs or lettering on buses,
taxis, or vehicles operating during the normal course of business on a day-to-
day basis.
   (F)   The use of roof signs is prohibited in all zoning districts within the
village.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.180 PERMIT APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   Any person intending to install, place or locate a permit-required sign
within the village must first make application with the Zoning Administrator.
An application for a sign permit shall be made in writing (on a form supplied
by the village) and attested to as to truth and accuracy by the applicant. An
application shall be accompanied by all required fees and shall contain, either
on its face or by attachment, the following information:
   (A)   All size and area dimensions for each sign;
   (B)   A drawing, photograph or acceptable rendering of the proposed sign
that includes all colors, lettering, words, symbols, font sizes/styles and
messages the applicant wishes to convey;
   (C)   The proposed location, position and manner of attachment of a sign;
and
   (D)   The intended use and proposed date of placement for such sign.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.181 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall locate, erect, construct, reconstruct, enlarge,
change, maintain, or use any sign in violation of any of the provisions of this
Zoning Code, or any amendment or supplement thereto adopted by the village.
   (B)   Any sign installed or placed upon public property, except in
conformance with the requirements of this Zoning Code, shall be forfeited to
the public and subject to confiscation. In addition to other remedies
hereunder, the village shall have the right to recover from the owner or person
placing such sign the full costs of removal and disposal of such sign.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.182 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   Any decision to deny a request to place, construct or modify a permit and/or
sign shall be in writing and supported by evidence contained in a written
record.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
AMENDMENTS
§ 153.195 INTENT.
   Whenever the public necessity, convenience, general welfare or good zoning
practices require, the Village Council may by ordinance, after receipt of
recommendation thereon from the Planning Commission, and subject to procedures
provided by law, amend, supplement, change, or repeal the regulations,
restrictions, and boundaries or classification of property.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.196 INITIATION OF ZONING AMENDMENTS.
   Amendments to this Zoning Code may be initiated in one of the following
ways:
   (A)   By the adoption of a motion by the Planning Commission;
   (B)   By the adoption of a motion by Village Council referring any amendment
to Planning Commission for recommendation; or
   (C)   By the filing of an application by the owner of the affected property.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.197 CONTENTS OF APPLICATION FOR ZONING MAP AMENDMENT.
   Applications for amendments to the official zoning map adopted as part of
this Zoning Code shall contain at least the following information:
   (A)   The name, address and phone number of the applicant;
   (B)   Present use;
   (C)   Present zoning district;
   (D)   Anticipated use;
   (E)   Proposed zoning district;
   (F)   A vicinity map at a scale approved by the Village Administrator
showing property lines, thoroughfares, existing and proposed zoning, and such
other items as the Village Administrator may require;
   (G)   A statement of the reason(s) for the proposed amendment;
   (H)   A list of all property owners and their mailing addresses, as
appearing on the County Auditor’s current tax list, who are within 200 feet of
the parcel or parcels proposed to be rezoned;
   (I)   A statement on the ways in which the proposed amendment relates to the
Comprehensive Development Plan; and
   (J)   A fee as established by the Zoning Code (see § 153.242).
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.198 CONTENTS OF APPLICATION FOR ZONING TEXT AMENDMENT.
   Applications for amendments proposing to change, supplement, amend or repeal
any portion(s) of this Zoning Code, other than the official zoning map, shall
contain at least the following information:
   (A)   The name, address and phone number of the applicant;
   (B)   The proposed amendment, approved as to form by the Village Solicitor;
   (C)   A statement of the reason(s) for the proposed amendment;
   (D)   A statement explaining the ways in which the proposed amendment
relates to the Comprehensive Plan; and
   (E)   A fee as established in the Zoning Code.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.199 RECOMMENDATION BV PLANNING COMMISSION.
   Within 60 days from the receipt of the proposed amendment, the Planning
Commission shall transmit its recommendation to the Village Council. The
Planning Commission may recommend that the amendment be granted as requested,
or it may recommend a modification of the amendment as requested, or it may
recommend that the amendment be denied. The decision of the Planning Commission
shall indicate the specific reason(s) upon which the recommendation is based,
including the basis for their determination that the proposed amendment is or
is not consistent with the Comprehensive Development Plan.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.200 PUBLIC HEARING BY VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   Upon receipt of the recommendation from the Planning Commission, the Village
Council shall schedule a public hearing. Said hearing shall be not more than 60
days from the receipt of the recommendation from the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.201 NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING IN NEWSPAPER.
   Notice of the public hearing shall be given by the Village Council by at
least one publication in one or more newspapers of general circulation in the
village. Said notice shall be published at least 30 days before the date of the
hearing. The published notice shall set forth the time and place of the public
hearing and a summary of the proposed amendment.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.202 NOTICE TO PARTIES OF INTEREST.
   If the ordinance, measure, or regulation intends to rezone or redistrict ten
or less parcels of land, as listed on the tax duplicate, written notice of the
hearing shall be mailed by the Clerk of the Village Council, by first class
mail, at least 20 days before the date of the public hearing to the owners of
property within and contiguous to and directly across the street from such
parcel or parcels, to the addresses of such owners appearing on the County
Auditor’s current tax list or the Treasurer’s mailing list and to such other
list or lists that may be specified by the Village Council. The failure of
delivery of such notice shall not invalidate any such ordinance, measure or
regulation. The notice shall contain the same information as required in §
153.201.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.203 ACTION BY VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   After the required public hearing, the Village Council shall either adopt or
deny the recommendation of the Planning Commission or adopt some modification
thereof. In the event the Village Council denies or modifies the recommendation
of the Planning Commission, it must do so by not less than three-fourths of the
full membership of Village Council.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
APPEALS AND VARIANCES
§ 153.215 INTENT.
   Appeals and variances shall conform to the procedures and requirements of
this Zoning Code. The Board of Zoning Appeals has appellate jurisdiction
relative to appeals and variances.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.216 ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeals to the Board of Zoning Appeals concerning interpretation or
administration of this Zoning Code may be taken by any person aggrieved or by
any officer or bureau of the legislative authority of the village affected by
any decision of the Village Administrator. Such appeal shall be taken within 30
days after the decision by filing, with the Village Administrator and with the
Board of Zoning Appeals, a notice of appeal specifying the grounds upon which
the appeal is being taken. The Village Administrator shall transmit to the
Board of Zoning Appeals all the papers constituting the record upon which the
action appealed from was taken.
   (B)   A record capable of transcription and containing all documents
presented as evidence or utilized by the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be made
of any hearing held under this section.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.217 VARIANCES.
   The Board shall have the power to authorize upon appeal from the Zoning
Administrator, such variances from the provisions or requirements of this
Zoning Code as will not be contrary to the public interest, but only in the
case of peculiar conditions, involving irregular, abnormally narrow, shallow or
steep lots, or other unusual physical conditions, whereby strict application of
such provisions or requirements would result in practical difficulty and
unnecessary hardship that would deprive the owner of the reasonable use of the
land or buildings involved, but in no other case. No variance from the strict
application of any provision of this Zoning Code shall be granted by the Board,
unless it finds, beyond reasonable doubt, that all the pertinent facts and
conditions addressed in this subchapter exist.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.218 APPLICATION AND STANDARDS FOR VARIANCES.
   Except as otherwise permitted in this Zoning Code, no variance in the strict
application of the provisions of this Zoning Code shall be granted by the BZA
unless the BZA shall find that the written application for the requested
variance contains all of the following requirements:
   (A)   Name, address and phone number of applicants;
   (B)   Legal description of property;
   (C)   Description or nature of variance requested;
   (D)   A fee as established by Zoning Code (see § 153.234) list of all
property owners and their mailing addresses who are within 200 feet of the
parcel requesting variance; and
   (E)   Narrative statements establishing and substantiating that the variance
conforms to the following standards.
      (1)   The granting of the variance shall be in accordance with the
general purpose and intent of the regulations imposed by this Zoning Code on
the district in which it is located, and shall not be injurious to the area or
otherwise detrimental to the public welfare.
      (2)   The granting of the variance will not permit the establishment of
any use which is not otherwise permitted in the district.
      (3)   There must exist special circumstances or conditions, fully
described in the findings, applicable to the land or buildings for which the
variance is sought, which are peculiar to such land or buildings and do not
apply generally to land or buildings in the area, and which are such that the
strict application of the provisions of this Zoning Code would deprive the
applicant of the reasonable use of such land or building. Mere loss in value
shall not justify a variance; there must be deprivation of beneficial use of
land.
      (4)   There must be proof of hardship or practical difficulty created by
the strict application of this Zoning Code. It is not sufficient proof of
hardship to show that greater profit would result if the variance were granted.
Furthermore, the hardship complained of cannot be self-created; nor can it be
established on this basis by one who purchases with or without knowledge of the
restrictions; it must result from the application of this Zoning Code; it must
be suffered directly by the property in question; and evidence of variances
granted under similar circumstances need not be considered.
      (5)   The granting of the variance is necessary for the reasonable use of
the land or building, and the variance as granted is the minimum variance that
will accomplish this purpose.
      (6)   The granting of the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by this regulation to other
lands, structures or buildings in the same district.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.219 ADDITIONAL CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals may further prescribe any conditions and
safeguards that it deems necessary to ensure that the objectives of the
regulations or provisions to which the variance applies will be met. Any
violation of such conditions and safeguards, when they have been made a part of
the terms under which the variance has been granted, shall be deemed a
punishable violation under this Zoning Code.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.220 PUBLIC HEARING BY THE BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hold a public hearing within 30 days after
the receipt of an application for an appeal or variance from the Village
Administrator.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.221 NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING IN NEWSPAPER.
   Before conducting the public hearing required, notice of such hearing shall
be given in one or more newspapers of general circulation in the village at
least ten days before the date of said hearing. The notice shall set forth the
time and place of the public hearing, and the nature of the proposed appeal or
variance.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.222 NOTICE TO PARTIES OF INTEREST.
   Before conducting the public hearing required, written notice of such
hearing shall be mailed, by first-class mail, at least ten days before the day
of the hearing to all parties within 200 feet. The failure to deliver the
notification as provided in this section shall not invalidate any such
amendment. The notice shall contain the same information as required in §
153.221.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.223 ACTION BY BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   Within 30 days after the public hearing, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall
either approve, approve with supplemental conditions as specified in §
153.219, or disapprove the request for appeal or variance. The Board of Zoning
Appeals shall further make a finding in writing that the reasons set forth in
the application justify the granting of the variance that will make possible a
reasonable use of the land, building or structure.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.224 TERM OF VARIANCE.
   No order of the Board of Zoning Appeals granting a variance shall be valid
for a period longer than 12 months from the date of such order unless the
building/zoning permit or zoning approval is obtained within such period, and
the erection or alteration of a building is started or the use is commenced
within such period.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.235 INTENT.
   The intent is to set forth the powers and duties of the Planning Commission,
the Board of Zoning Appeals, the Village Council and the Village Administrator
with respect to the administration of the provisions of this Zoning Code.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.236 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   The formulation, administration and enforcement of the Zoning Code is hereby
vested in the following offices and bodies within the village government:
   (A)   Village Council;
   (B)   Planning Commission;
   (C)   Board of Zoning Appeals;
   (D)   Village Administrator; and
   (E)   Village Solicitor.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.237 VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Village Administrator shall administer and enforce this Zoning Code. He
or she may be provided with the assistance of such other persons as needed.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.238 RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR.
   For the purpose of this Zoning Code, the Village Administrator shall have
the following duties:
   (A)   Enforce the provisions of this Zoning Code and interpret the meaning
and application of its provisions;
   (B)   Respond to questions concerning applications for amendments to the
official zoning district map;
   (C)   Issue building/zoning permits as provided by this Zoning Code, and
keep a record of same with a notation of any special conditions involved;
   (D)   Act on all applications upon which the Village Administrator is
authorized to act by the provisions of this Zoning Code within the specified
time, or notify the applicant in writing of the Village Administrator’s refusal
or disapproval of such application and the reasons therefore. Failure to notify
the applicant in case of such refusal or disapproval within the specified time
shall entitle the applicant to submit the Village Administrator’s request to
the Board of Zoning Appeals;
   (E)   Conduct inspections of buildings and uses of land to determine
compliance with this Zoning Code, and, in the case of any violation, to notify
in writing the person(s) responsible, specifying the nature of the violation
and ordering corrective action;
   (F)   Maintain in current status the official zoning district map which
shall be kept on permanent display in the village offices;
   (G)   Maintain permanent and current records required by this Zoning Code,
including, but not limited to, building/zoning permits, zoning certificates,
inspection documents, and records of all variances, amendments, and special
uses;
   (H)   Make such records available for the use of the Village Council, the
Planning Commission, the Board of Zoning Appeals and the public;
   (I)    Review and approve site plans pursuant to this Zoning Code; and
   (J)   Determine the existence of any violations of this Zoning Code, and
cause such notifications, or initiate such other administrative or legal action
as needed, to address such violations.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.239 DUTIES OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
   For the purpose of this Zoning Code, the Planning Commission shall have the
following duties:
   (A)   Recommend modifications to the Zoning Code, including text and
official zoning district map, to the Village Council for formal adoption;
   (B)   Initiate advisable official zoning district map changes, or changes in
the text of the Zoning Code where same will promote the best interest of the
public in general through recommendation to the Village Council;
   (C)   Review all proposed amendments to the text of this Zoning Code and the
official zoning district map and make recommendations to the Village Council as
specified in §§
153.195 through
153.203;
   (D)   Review all planned unit development applications and make
recommendations to the Village Council as provided in this Zoning Code; and
   (E)   Carry on a continuous review of the effectiveness and appropriateness
of this Zoning Code and recommend such changes or amendments as it feels would
be appropriate;
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.240 DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals (BZA) shall be composed of five members
appointed by the Mayor for terms of five years. The Mayor shall also appoint a
Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and Secretary from among the Board members.
   (B)   For the purpose of this Zoning Code, the BZA has the following
specific responsibilities:
      (1)   Hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error in
any order, requirement, decision, interpretation or determination made by the
Village Administrator;
      (2)   Authorize such variances from the terms of this Zoning Code;
      (3)   Hear and decide conditional uses as set forth in this section; and
      (4)   Review all special uses and conditional uses as identified in the
respective zoning districts according to provisions and criteria stated in this
Zoning Code.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.241 VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   The powers and duties of the Village Council pertaining to the Zoning Code
are as follows:
   (A)   Approve the appointments of members to the Planning Commission by the
Mayor;
   (B)   Approve the appointments of members to the Board of Zoning Appeals by
the Mayor;
   (C)   Initiate or act upon recommended amendments to the Zoning Code or
official zoning district map. Final action upon a recommended zoning amendment
shall be undertaken at a public hearing; and
   (D)   Override a recommendation of the Planning Commission; provided that
such legislative action is passed by a vote of not less than three-fourths of
the Village Council.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.242 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
Accessory structures/buildings/uses                       $12
Appeal of administrative design                           $150
Commercial remodeling/additions                           $36
Conditional use                                           $150
Fences (commercial/industrial)                            $12
Fences (residential)                                      $6
Industrial remodeling/additions                           $60
Miscellaneous (swimming pools, utility sheds, parking and $12
the like)
New commercial construction (including site plan review)  $60
New industrial construction (including site plan review)  $120
Planned unit development review                           $120
Residential additions/remodeling                          $18
Residential new construction                              $30
Signs (36 - 60 square feet)                               90 per square foot
Signs (60+ square feet)                                   $1.14 per square foot
Signs (less than 36 square feet)                          66 per square foot
Subdivisions (preliminary and final plats)
   First acre or fractional part thereof               $60
   Each additional acre or fractional part thereof     $6
Variance                                                  $150
Zoning map amendment (rezoning)                           $150
Zoning text amendment                                     $150
All fees shall be paid by cash or check and shall not be refundable
 
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002; Ord. 10-14, passed 6-22-2010)
BUILDING/ZONING PERMIT REQUIREMENTS AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.255 INTENT.
   The intent of this subchapter is to stipulate the procedures to be followed
in obtaining permits and other legal or administrative approvals under this
Zoning Code.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.256 BUILDING/ZONING PERMITS REQUIRED.
   No building or other structure shall be erected, moved, added to or
structurally altered; nor shall any building, structure, or land be established
or changed in use; nor shall any accessory structure, sign or swimming pool be
installed without a permit issued by the Village Administrator. Building/zoning
permits shall be issued only in conformity with the provisions of this Zoning
Code unless the Village Administrator receives a written order from the Board
of Zoning Appeals deciding an appeal, conditional use, or variance, or from
Village Council, approving a Planned Unit Development District, as provided by
this Zoning Code. Accessory buildings 150 square feet and less are exempt from
this requirement.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.257 RECOMMENDED CONTENTS OF APPLICATION FOR BUILDING/ZONING PERMITS.
   The application for building/zoning permit shall be made in writing and be
signed by the owner or applicant attesting to the truth and exactness of all
information supplied on the application. Construction on the project shall
begin within six months from the date that the permit was issued and shall be
substantially completed within one year of the permit issue date. At a minimum,
the application shall contain the following information, if applicable to a
particular use, and be accompanied by all required fees:
   (A)   Name, address and phone number of owner;
   (B)   Legal description of property or lot number;
   (C)   Existing use;
   (D)   Proposed use;
   (E)   Zoning district;
   (F)   Plans drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions and the shape of
the lot to be built upon; the exact size and location of existing buildings on
the lot, if any; and the location and dimensions of the proposed building(s) or
alteration;
   (G)   Building heights;
   (H)   Number of off-street parking spaces or loading berths and their
layout;
   (I)   Location and design of access drives;
   (J)   Number of dwelling units;
   (K)   Signage information, if applying for a building/zoning permit for a
sign;
   (L)   If applicable, the approved conditional use permit, or a temporary use
permit, or variance;
   (M)   Such other documentation as may be necessary to determine conformance
with, and to provide for the enforcement of this Zoning Code;
   (N)   Site plan in triplicate to the required contents stated in §
153.258 for any new construction, of any principally or conditionally permitted
use, except single-family and two-family dwellings;
   (O)   Plans showing that the residential unit meets the residential design
and appearance standards in §
153.068;
   (P)   Detention basin information;
   (Q)   Flood Zone information; and
   (R)   Type of dust-free, hard surface.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.258 SITE PLAN REQUIRED CONTENTS.
   A site plan submission shall contain any and/or all of the following when
deemed to be reasonably appropriate by the Village Administrator:
   (A)   The accurate dimensions and size of the site area as well as the
topography of the site and immediately adjoining lands within 50 feet of the
property line at one-foot intervals;
   (B)   The locations and dimensions of all existing and proposed streets,
courts and pedestrian walkways within and abutting the site, as well as the
location, size, and means of ingress and egress of all off-street loading and
parking areas. The location and arrangements of the parking areas and access
shall also be shown, and the means of defining parking areas and access lanes,
via curbs, bumper blocks, railroad ties, or physical obstructions or other
methods approved by the Village Engineer, shall be illustrated. All proposed
signs shall be shown, detailing location, dimensions, height and, where
applicable, verbiage;
   (C)   The location and size of all existing and proposed buildings and
structures within the site and on adjoining lands, within 50 feet of the
property line, as well as the existing or proposed use of such building or
structure, including the number, type, and floor area of commercial uses to be
accommodated in each;
   (D)   A complete utilities plan, providing electric, gas, telephone, cable
television, storm sewer, water, and sanitary sewer services, including
connections to existing service lines and existing and proposed easements. Such
plans shall comply with the village design criteria and construction standards
and drawings;
   (E)   The location, size and type of fire hydrants; building plans; fire
suppression system plans; Fire Department access areas; and fire lane signage.
Such plans shall comply with state and local building and fire codes and shall
be approved by the Fire Chief (or authorized representative);
   (F)   A grading and drainage plan to illustrate proposed grading of the site
and methods used to comply with village storm water runoff, erosion, and
sediment control specifications found in the village design criteria and
construction standards and drawings;
   (G)   A landscaping plan showing the location and types of screen planting,
buffer areas, human-made screening and other features, which shall enhance the
site;
   (H)   An exterior lighting plan showing the location of lighting fixtures,
their type and output, as well as the proposed radius of lighted area for each
fixture;
   (I)   The proposed internal vehicular circulation of access roads shall be
delineated and related to connections with public streets. Existing and
proposed traffic patterns and volumes, and the anticipated effect on existing
public streets serving the site shall be provided for the Village Engineer’s
review. Complexes shall provide curb or other types of internal access lane
separations for parking spaces to assist in internal circulation and parking
area delineation;
   (J)   The division of the development into sections shall be delineated if
staged construction is contemplated, as well as which parking areas and other
improvements shall be provided for each stage of development; and
   (K)   Proposed complexes designed for condominium, cooperative, or other
multiple ownership arrangements shall indicate proposed individual, joint, or
common ownership areas to assure maintenance and operation of common features
such as lighting and parking facilities. Any arrangements requiring subdivision
approval shall also be subject to the subdivision regulations.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.259 APPROVAL OF BUILDING/ZONING PERMIT.
   Within 30 days after the receipt of an application, the Village
Administrator shall either approve or disapprove the application in accordance
with the provisions of this Zoning Code. All building/zoning permits shall,
however, be conditional upon the commencement of work within six months and
completed within one year. One copy of the permit shall be returned to the
applicant by the Village Administrator, after the Village Administrator has
marked such copy either as approved or disapproved and attested to same by the
Village Administrator’s signature on such copy. One copy of plans, similarly
marked, shall be retained by the Village Administrator. The Village
Administrator shall issue a placard, to be posted in a conspicuous place on the
property in question, attesting to the fact that the activity is in conformance
with the provisions of this Zoning Code.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.260 FAILURE TO OBTAIN A BUILDING/ZONING PERMIT.
   Failure to obtain a building/zoning permit shall be a punishable violation
of this Zoning Code as defined in §
153.999.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.261 CONSTRUCTION AND USE TO BE AS PROVIDED IN APPLICATIONS, PLANS AND
PERMITS.
   Building/zoning permits issued on the basis of plans and applications
approved by the Village Administrator authorize only the use and arrangement,
set forth in such approved plans and applications or amendments thereto, and no
other use, arrangement, or construction. Use, arrangement or construction
contrary to that authorized shall be deemed a punishable violation of this
Zoning Code.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.262 ENTRY AND INSPECTION OF PROPERTY.
   The Village Administrator is authorized to make inspections of properties
and structures in order to examine and survey the same, at any reasonable hour,
for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this Zoning Code. Prior to
seeking entry to any property or structure for such examination or survey, the
Village Administrator shall attempt to obtain the permission of the owner or
occupant to inspect. If such permission is denied or cannot be obtained, the
Village Administrator shall request the assistance of the Solicitor in securing
a valid search warrant prior to entry.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.263 STOP WORK ORDER.
   Subsequent to his or her determination that work is being done contrary to
this Zoning Code, the Village Administrator shall write a stop work order and
post it on the premises involved. Removal of a stop work order, except by the
order of the Village Administrator, shall constitute a punishable violation of
this Zoning Code.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.264 BUILDING/ZONING PERMIT REVOCATION.
   The Village Administrator may issue a revocation notice to revoke a permit
or administrative approval which was issued contrary to this Zoning Code or
based upon false information or misrepresentation in the application.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.265 COMPLAINTS REGARDING VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever a violation of this Zoning Code occurs or is alleged to have
occurred, any person may file a written complaint. Such complaint stating fully
the causes and basis thereof shall be filed with the Village Administrator. The
Village Administrator shall record properly such complaint, immediately
investigate it and take action thereon as provided by this Zoning Code.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.266 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Whenever the Village Administrator or the officer’s agent determines
that there is a violation of any provision of this Zoning Code, a warning
letter shall be issued and shall serve as a notice of violation. Such order
shall:
      (1)   Identify the violation;
      (2)   Include a statement of the reason or reasons why it is being issued
and refer to the sections of this Zoning Code being violated; and
      (3)   State the time by which the violation shall be corrected.
   (B)   Service of notice of violation shall be as follows:
      (1)   By personal delivery to the person or persons responsible, or by
leaving the notice at the usual place of residence of the owner with a person
of suitable age and discretion; or
      (2)   Certified mail deposited in the United States Post Office addressed
to the person or persons responsible at a last known address. If a certified
mail envelope is returned with endorsement showing that the envelope is refused
or is unclaimed, then service shall be sent by ordinary mail, and the mailing
shall be evidenced by a certificate of mailing which shall be filed by the
Village Administrator. Service shall be deemed complete when the fact of
mailing is entered of record.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.267 ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.
   Nothing in this Zoning Code shall be deemed to abolish, impair or prevent
other additional remedies as provided by law. In the event of a violation of
any provision or requirement of this Zoning Code, or in the case of an imminent
threat of such a violation, the Village Administrator, the Village Solicitor,
or the owner of any neighboring property who would be especially damaged by
such violation, may, in addition to other recourses provided by law, institute
mandamus, injunction, abatement, or other appropriate actions to prevent,
remove, abate, enjoin, or terminate such violation.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to erect, establish, locate, construct,
reconstruct, enlarge, change, move, repair, maintain, or structurally alter any
building, structure, or land in violation of any provision of this Zoning Code,
or any amendment thereto. Any person, firm or corporation who violates this
Zoning Code or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall upon
conviction thereof be fined not more than $100, and in addition, shall pay all
costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day such violation continues
after receipt of a violation notice shall be considered a separate offense. The
owner or tenant of any building, structure, premises, or part thereof, and any
architect, builder, contractor, agent, or other person who commits,
participates in, assists in, or maintains such violation may each be found
guilty of a separate offense and suffer the penalties provided in this section.
   (B)   Village utilities shall not be provided to any building, structure, or
use which is in operation, or which is under construction, or has been
constructed, in violation of this Zoning Code.
   (C)   (1)   In addition to any applicable penalties under state or county
law, any person convicted of a criminal offense under §
153.069 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. Each violation or
non-compliance shall be considered a separate offense as will each day of
continued violation or non-compliance. Second or more offenses shall be a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   The village may take any lawful action to prevent or remedy any
violation or non-compliance, including, but not limited to, an equitable action
for injunctive relief or an action at law for damages.
(Ord. 03-04, passed - -2002)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
      
III.   EASEMENTS
      
IV.   FRANCHISES
      
V.   REAL PROPERTY
      
VI.   VACATIONS
      
VII.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I: AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. 82-1     1-5-1982    Agreement with certain property owners for
                          installation of curbs and gutters
Res. 82-7     3-2-1982    Agreement with Pusheta Township for fire protection
Ord. 82-10    3-15-1982   Contract with Ace Equipment, Co. for utility
                          operations
Ord. 84-11    8-14-1984   Agreement with Dennis and Joyce Latimer for
                          installation of curbs and gutters
Res. 86-27    - -1986     Contract for street lighting with Dayton Power and
                          Light Company
Ord. 87-1     1-13-1987   Contract with FMC Corporation for purchase fire
                          engine
Res. 87-8     3-10-1987   Agreement with Design Enterprise, Ltd. for
                          engineering services
Ord. 88-13    5-18-1988   Contract with Louise Sheets to purchase 109 East Lynn
                          Street
Ord. 88-18    7-12-1988   Lease agreement with Amos Memorial Public Library
Ord. 89-16    2-28-1989   Cooperative agreement with Ohio Development Authority
                          for the wastewater treatment facility project
Res. 89-10    3-14-1989   Agreement with Design Enterprise, Ltd. for
                          engineering services
Res. 89-12    3-14-1989   Sublease agreement with Amos Memorial Public Library
Ord. 89-25    9-12-1989   Contract with Dayton Power and Light Company for
                          electric lighting services
Res. 91-14    8-13-1991   Agreement with Town and Country Disposal of Fort
                          Loramie for refuse removal services
Res. 92-4     3-10-1992   Agreement for engineering services with Mote &
                          Associates, Inc.
                          Contract with Ohio Department of Transportation for
Res. 93-1     1-12-1993   purchase of supplies, services, materials and
                          equipment
Res. 93-27    8-10-1993   Contract for electric lighting services
Res. 93-37    12-14-1993  Agreement with Dinsmore Township for lost tax
                          revenues
Ord. 94-20    - -1994     Enterprise zone agreement with Hubbard Milling
                          Company
Res. 94-10    3-14-1994   Agreement with Ohio National Guard for development of
                          park
Res. 95-19    - -1995     Enterprise zone agreement with Provico, Inc.
Ord. 95-24    10-10-1995  Agreement with County Prosecutor for services
Ord. 95-30    12-12-1995  Agreement with County Prosecutor for services
                          First addendum agreement for annual payments to
Res. 96-19    7-9-1996    compensate for lost tax revenues with Dinsmore
                          Township
Ord. 96-24    11-12-1996  Agreement with County Prosecutor for services
Ord. 97-6     3-20-1997   Agreement with Mote & Associates, Inc. for
                          engineering services
Res. 97-26    11-11-1997  Contract for street lighting services
Ord. 97-27    12-9-1997   Agreement with County Prosecutor for services
Ord. 99-3     1-12-1999   Agreement with Joe and Janell Welker for purchase of
                          real property
Ord. 99-29    11-9-1999   Agreement with County Prosecutor for services
Ord. 00-03    2-8-2000    Lease of 50 acres
Ord. 00-18    9-12-2000   Contract with Fire Safety Services, Inc. to purchase
                          self-contained breathing apparatus
Ord. 00-27    12-12-2000  Agreement with Countryside Waste Services for refuse
                          removal services
Res. 01-09    - -2001     Agreement with CSX Transportation, Inc. for pipeline
                          crossing
                          Agreement with Northern Miami Valley Local Government
Res. 01-01    1-9-2001    Association for participation in Regional Council of
                          Governments
Res. 01-03    3-14-2001   Contract with DPL Energy Resources, Inc. for electric
                          lighting services
Ord. 01-06    3-14-2001   Contract with Chuck Samples General Contractor, Inc.
                          for completing Botkins Industrial Park Project
Res. 01-14    7-10-2001   Enterprise zone agreement with Provico, Inc.
Ord. 01-08    7-10-2001   Agreement with DPL Energy Resources, Inc. for energy
                          management
Ord. 01-26    11-13-2001  Agreement with County Prosecutor for services
                          Agreement with Ron and Diane Aufderhaar for
Ord. 02-14    7-9-2002    development and improvement of Lone Pine Estates
                          Subdivision
Res. 02-29    12-17-2002  Agreement with Calfee, Halter & Grisold, LLP for
                          special counsel services
Ord. 02-23    12-17-2002  Agreement with County Prosecutor for services
Ord. 03-05    3-4-2003    Agreement with J & J Pohlman, Ltd. for purchase
                          option
Ord. 03-17    6-10-2003   Contract with James P. Hill for consulting services
Ord. 03-18    9-9-2003    Contract with Jamison Well Drilling, Inc. for well
                          field improvements
Ord. 03-19    9-9-2003    Contract with Jamison Well Drilling, Inc. for well
                          field improvements
Ord. 03-34    12-9-2003   Agreement with County Prosecutor for services
Ord. 04-04    2-10-2004   Agreement with J & J Pohlman, Ltd. for mutual release
                          of claims
Ord. 04-07    3-29-2004   Agreement with Banc of America Leasing & Capital, LLC
                          and Mercy Health System for lease or health equipment
Ord. 04-11    10-12-2004  Agreement with Ohio Water Development Authority for
                          construction of water tower
Ord. 04-19    11-9-2004   Agreement with Eastern Shawnee Tribe of Oklahoma for
                          purchase of land
Ord. 04-17    12-14-2004  Agreement with County Prosecutor for services
Ord. 05-13    5-31-2005   Community reinvestment area agreement with Double C
                          Properties, LLC and Brown Industrial, Inc.
Ord. 05-22    10-11-2005  Agreement with County Prosecutor for services
Res. 05-24    11-15-2005  Agreement with Botkins Soccer Club to permit the club
                          to use the park
Res. 06-03    1-31-2006   Agreement with West Ohio Local Government Association
                          for participation in Regional Council of Governments
Ord. 06-19    6-13-2006   Agreement with Eastern Shawnee Tribe of Oklahoma
Ord. 06-20    6-27-2006   Agreement with Eastern Shawnee Tribe of Oklahoma
                          Agreement with Ohio Water Development Authority and
Res. 06-26    8-8-2006    Ohio Environmental Protection Agency for drinking
                          water assistance funds
Res. 06-25    9-12-2006   Contract with Miami Valley Lighting, LLC for electric
                          lighting services
Ord. 06-30    12-12-2006  Agreement with County Prosecutor for services
Ord. 06-09    - -2007     Enterprise zone agreement with Auglaize Provico
Ord. 07-21    - -2007     Agreement with County Prosecutor for services
Ord. 07-22    11-13-2007  Agreement with Agrana Fruit US, Inc. for sewerage
                          service
Ord. 08-18    - -2008     Agreement with Botkins Community Improvement
                          Corporation for land acquisition and development
Ord. 08-10    4-29-2008   Joint cooperative agreement with the Village of
                          Jackson Center for repair and resurfacing project
Ord. 08-17    11-25-2008  Agreement with County Prosecutor for services
Ord. 2008-19  11-25-2008  Contract with Advanced Agri-Solutions Co-op, Inc. for
                          purchase of 1.309 acres of land
Res. 09-01    1-27-2009   Agreement with Ohio Department of Transportation for
                          purchase of road salt
                          Agreement with Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
Res. 09-02    3-10-2009   and Ohio Water Development Authority for water
                          pollution control funds
Ord. 09-14    10-27-2009  Agreement with County Prosecutor for services
Res. 10-04    2-9-2010    Agreement Ohio Environmental Protection Agency for
                          pollution control loan fund
Ord. 10-05    2-9-2010    Agreement with Nick Kraft for lease of 203 South Mill
                          Street
Ord. 10-19    9-14-2010   Agreement with County Prosecutor for services
Res. 11-05    4-12-2011   Lease with Wilson Care, Inc. for physician services
Ord. 11-10    7-12-2011   Community reinvestment area agreement with Double C
                          Properties, LLC
Ord. 11-16    10-11-2011  Agreement with County Prosecutor for services
Res. 12-2     1-31-2012   Agreement with private investors to purchase 50 acres
Ord. 12-17    8-14-2012   Community investment agreement with Double C
                          Properties, LLC and Brown Industrial, LLC
                          Community investment agreement with Platfoot
Ord. 12-18    8-28-2012   Industrial Properties, LLC and Buckeye Electrical
                          Products, Inc.
Res. 12-27    12-11-2012  Terminating agreement with Dinsmore Township for fire
                          protection services
Res. 12-28    12-11-2012  Agreement with Dinsmore Township for fire protection
                          services
Ord. 13-10    3-12-2013   Agreement with County Prosecutor for services
Ord. 13-11    3-12-2013   Real estate purchase agreement with Jason G. Miller
                          for purchase of Lot 521
Ord. –      3-20-2013   Real estate purchase agreement with Jason G. Miller
Res. 13-19    7-30-2013   Agreement with Dinsmore Township for annual payments
                          to compensate for lost tax revenues
Res. 13-21    8-13-2013   Agreement with Pusheta Township for fire protection
                          services
Ord. 13-22    8-27-2013   Community reinvestment area agreement with Double C
                          Properties, LLC and Brown Industrial, Inc.
Ord. –      11-26-2013  Agreement with Dinsmore Township for annual payments
                          to compensate for lost tax revenues
Res. 13-33    12-10-2013  Agreement with Brown Industrial, Inc. for property
                          investment
Ord. 13-29    12-10-2013  State route maintenance agreement
Ord. 13-30    12-10-2013  Interstate maintenance agreement
Ord. 14-02    1-14-2014   Agreement with County Prosecutor for services
Res. 14-10    5-20-2014   Agreement with Ohio EPA for 2014 scrap tire grant
Ord. 15-01    1-13-2015   Agreement with County Prosecutor for services
Res. 15-18    11-10-2015  Agreement with Supernova Partners, LLC and Affordable
                          Gas & Electric Company, LLC to purchase electricity
                          Agreement with Supernova Partners, LLC and Affordable
Res. 15-19    11-10-2015  Gas & Electric Company, LLC for purchase of natural
                          gas
Ord. 15-15    11-24-2015  Agreement with County Prosecutor for services
Res. 16-01    1-12-2016   Agreement with Mary C. Hageman Trust for annexation
                          of property
Res. 2016-19  9-27-2016   Purchase agreement with Thomas H. Hageman to acquire
                          60 acres of land
                          Interlocal agreement with North Central Ohio Solid
Ord. 17-03    1-10-2017   Waste Management District for residential solid waste
                          and recycling services
Res. 17-21    6-27-2017   Agreement with Ohio Attorney General for collection
                          of delinquent taxes
Ord. 17-29    10-31-2017  Agreement with private investors to purchase
                          Industrial Park
Ord. 17-30    10-31-2017  Agreement with private investors to purchase
                          Industrial Park
Res. 18-10    3-14-2018   Agreement with private investors to purchase 50 acres
Ord. 18-15    9-11-2018   Agreement for purchase of land
Res. 10-18    10-5-2018   Agreement with Botkins Local School District Board of
                          Education for a community reinvestment area exemption
Ord. –      11-13-2018  Community reinvestment area agreement with Botkins
                          Investment Group, LLC
Ord. 18-16    11-13-2018  Community reinvestment area agreement with Botkins
                          Investment Group, LLC
Ord. 19-10    2-12-2019   Agreement for purchase of Parcels 11-0233358.024 and
                          11-0233358.025
Res. 19-07    3-12-2019   Agreement with Mote and Associates, Inc. for
                          engineering services
Res. 19-11    3-12-2019   Agreement with private investors for purchase of land
Ord. 19-12    3-12-2019   Community reinvestment area agreement with Botkins
                          Investment Group, LLC and Behr Investment Group, LLC
Res. 19-13    4-9-2019    Agreement with private investors for purchase of land
Ord. –      4-10-2019   Community reinvestment area agreement with Behr
                          Investment Group, LLC
Res. 19-15    4-30-2019   Agreement with private investors for purchase of land
Ord. 19-14    4-30-2019   Agreement with Ronald and Diane Aufderhar to transfer
                          property
Res. –      7-10-2019   Reinvestment area agreement with Botkins Local School
                          District Board of Education
Ord. 19-21    7-30-2019   Community reinvestment area agreement with Botkins
                          Investment Group II, LLC
Ord. –      8-2-2019    Community reinvestment area agreement with Botkins
                          Investment Group II, LLC
Res. 2019-23  8-13-2019   Agreement with Ohio Water Development Authority for
                          construction of wastewater treatment plant
Res. 19-27    9-17-2019   Agreement with Behr Investment Group, LLC for
                          purchase of land
Res. 19-28    9-17-2019   Agreement with Platfoot Industrial Properties, LLC
                          for purchase of land
Ord. 19-30    9-17-2019   Contract with Jutte Excavating for wastewater upgrade
                          project
Res. 19-31    10-10-2019  Agreement with private investors for purchase of 50
                          acres
Res. 19-32    10-10-2019  Agreement with private investors for purchase of 50
                          acres
Res. 19-41    11-12-2019  Purchase agreement with Ronald and Diana Aufderhar to
                          acquire 28.888 acres of land
Ord. –      2-24-2020   Community reinvestment area agreement with Platfoot
                          Industrial Properties, LLC
Res. –      3-11-2020   Agreement with Botkins Local School District Board of
                          Education for a community reinvestment area exemption
Ord. 20-08    3-23-2020   Community reinvestment area agreement with Fertilizer
                          Dealer Supply, Inc.
Ord. 20-09    3-23-2020   Community reinvestment area agreement with Platfoot
                          Industrial Properties, LLC
Res. 20-29    11-10-2020  Settlement agreement with Brown Industrial, Inc. for
                          overpayment
Res. 21-18    7-13-2021   Agreement with Behr Investment Group, LLC for
                          property investment
                          Community reinvestment area agreement with Botkins
Ord. 21-17    7-22-2021   Investment Group II, LLC and Behr Investment Group,
                          LLC
Ord. 22-03    1-11-2022   Agreement with Eric May Enterprises, LLC to purchase
                          land
Res. 22-08    3-3-2022    Agreement with Botkins Local School District for
                          community park
Ord. 22-13    5-3-2022    Community reinvestment area agreement with First
                          National Bank in New Bremen
Ord. 23-01    1-11-2023   Community reinvestment area agreement with Behr
                          Investment Group, LLC and 101 Commerce Drive RE, LLC
Ord. 23-02    1-11-2023   Community reinvestment area agreement with Behr
                          Investment Group, LLC and 101 Commerce Drive, RE, LLC
Ord. 23-10    2-8-2023    Community reinvestment area agreement with Eric May
                          Enterprises, LLC
Ord. 23-11    2-8-2023    Community reinvestment area agreement with Platfoot
                          Industrial Properties, LLC
                          Agreement with Ohio Department of Natural Resources
Res. 23-26    7-26-2023   for a capital improvement grant for the Botkins
                          Community Park
Ord. 23-31    9-13-2023   Agreement with Hageman Woods Estates, LLC for
                          purchase of property
Res. 24-11    1-31-2024   Agreement with Pusheta Township for fire protection
                          services
                         
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Res. 85-6     5-14-1985   Annexation of 49.382 acres to Paul Wilt Enterprises,
                          Inc.
Ord. 85-16    9-10-1985   Annexation of 49.382 acres owned by Paul Wilt
                          Enterprises, Inc.
Res. 86-17    7-8-1986    Accepting annexation of 6.751 acres from Dinsmore
                          Township
Res. 94-7     3-14-1994   Accepting annexation of 76.630 acres from Dinsmore
                          Township
Res. 94-37    12-13-1994  Accepting annexation of 36.183 acres from Dinsmore
                          Township
Res. 97-29    1-20-1998   Accepting annexation of 26.77 acres
Res. 98-13    2-10-1998   Accepting annexation of 34.636 acres
Ord. 99-30    12-14-1999  Annexation of 50 acres of land located in Dinsmore
                          Township
Ord. 01-21    11-13-2001  Annexation of 40.01 acres of land in Dinsmore
                          Township
Ord. 01-29    2-12-2002   Annexation of 81.616 acres from Dinsmore Township
Ord. 01-30    2-12-2002   Annexation of 35.196 acres of land in Dinsmore
                          Township
                          Annexation of north half of the Southeast Quarter of
Res. 03-28    10-14-2003  Section 33, Township 6 South, Range 6 East, Dinsmore
                          Township
Res. 05-14    6-22-2005   Annexation of 2.72 acres to Auglaize- Provico
Res. 05-25    11-15-2005  Annexation of 2.72 acres from Dinsmore Township
                          Annexation of two tracts of land, one being from Only
Res. 06-01    1-10-2006   Believe Ministries, Inc. and the other being from
                          Chief Super Market, Inc.
Res. 07-14    - -2007     Accepting annexation of 0.35 acres from Dinsmore
                          Township
Res. 07-15    - -2007     Annexation of 6.26 acres of land from Dinsmore
                          Township
Res. 07-06    3-13-2007   Annexation agreement with Dinsmore Township for 6.280
                          acres
Res. 12-21    9-25-2012   Annexation of 13.678 acres from Dinsmore Township
Ord. –      1-12-2016   Annexation of 9.145 acres of property owned by Mary
                          C. H. Hageman Trust
Res. 16-08    4-26-2016   Accepting annexation of 9.145 acres from Dinsmore
                          Township
Res. 19-16    6-11-2019   Annexation of 0.908 acres from Dinsmore Township
Res. 19-17    6-11-2019   Annexation of 0.50 acres from Dinsmore Township
Res. 19-18    6-11-2019   Annexation of 63.558 acres from Dinsmore Township
Res. 19-22    7-30-2019   Annexation of 2.680 acres from Dinsmore Township
Ord. 19-45    11-12-2019  Annexation of real estate owned by Marilyn and Randy
                          Maurer
Ord. 19-46    11-12-2019  Annexation of 2.680 acres for SSB Real Estate, LLC
Res. 20-04    1-28-2020   Annexation of 1.826 acres from Dinsmore Township
Ord. 20-10    3-10-2020   Annexation for Boomerang Rubber, Inc.
Res. 20-22    8-11-2020   Annexation of 2.066 acres of land from Dinsmore
                          Township
Ord. 21-15    5-11-2021   Annexation of property owned by Cory and Emily
                          Eisenhardt
Res. 24-13    2-29-2024   Annexation of 0.39 acres with Dinsmore Township and
                          Bonnie and Elmer Penny
                         
 
TABLE III: EASEMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. 92-13    7-14-1992   Granting easement under Oak Street for installation
                          of a propane gas line
Ord. 03-22    10-14-2003  Utility easement of land owned by Melvin and Jody
                          Marx
Ord. 03-24    10-14-2003  Utility easement with Virginia Bauer Trust for water
                          wells
Ord. 05-28    12-27-2005  Access easement to Botkins Area Community Club, Inc.
Ord. 07-02    2-27-2007   Easement with Only Believe Ministries, Inc. for
                          utility easement
Ord. 07-03    2-27-2007   Easement with Only Believe Ministries, Inc. for
                          utility easement
Ord. 07-04    2-27-2007   Easement with Only Believe Ministries, Inc. for
                          utility easement
Ord. 13-03    1-8-2013    Easement for public storm water drainage at Botkins
                          Lumber Company
                         
 
TABLE IV: FRANCHISES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. 82-22    - -1982     Granting franchise to Cable Management Group for
                          cable television services
Ord. 83-10    11-23-1983  Franchise with Cable Management Group for cable
                          television services
Ord. 84-10    - -1984     Franchise with Dayton Power and Light Company for
                          electric services
Ord. 86-1     3-1-1986    Granting franchise to Cable Management Group for
                          cable television services
Ord. 86-18    9-9-1986    Franchise with Video Display Corporation for cable
                          television services
Ord. 87-11    6-9-1987    Transfer of cable television franchise to Videcomm
                          Cable Partner I Limited Partnership
Ord. 93-24    7-29-1993   Granting West Ohio Gas Company to lay and operate gas
                          lines in the village
Res. 96-20    9-10-1996   Franchise with TWFanch to operate cable television
Ord. 97-22    - -1997     Franchise with Time Warner Cable for cable television
                          services
Ord. 99-19    8-24-1999   Granting Dayton Power and Light Company to operate
                          electric services in the city
Ord. 01-26    2-12-2002   Granting franchise to Pioneer Rural Electric
                          Cooperative, Inc. for electric energy parts
Ord. 06-21    7-11-2006   Granting franchise to NKTelco, Inc. for cable
                          communications
                         
 
TABLE V: REAL PROPERTY
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Res. 94-8     3-14-1994   Accepting deed from BACC for ten-acre parcel located
                          in Section 33, T6S, R6E, Dinsmore Township
                          Accepting deed from Board of Education for 12-acre
Res. 94-9     3-14-1994   parcel and a 13-acre parcel both located in Section
                          33, T6S, R63, Dinsmore Township
Ord. 01-31    12-11-2001  Purchase of Henschen - Willke property
Ord. 03-06    3-11-2003   Purchase of 82.450 acres from J & J Pohlman, Ltd.
Ord. 03-12    4-28-2003   Purchase of 76.524 acres of land from Randy and
                          Marilyn Maurer
Ord. 05-27    12-27-2005  Accepting real property of 9.5 acres from Botkins
                          Area Community Club, Inc.
Ord. 09-08    4-28-2009   Purchasing 1.309 acres from Melvin and Jody Marx
Ord. 09-20    11-24-2009  Sale of 7.447 acres of land
Res. 10-11    4-27-2010   Authorization to sell Industrial Park to private
                          investors
Ord. 17-23    5-30-2017   Renaming Sycamore Street to Dutch Van Horn Way
                         
 
TABLE VI: VACATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. 87-10    5-5-1987    Vacation of alley between Lots 32 and 33
Ord. 88-19    11-8-1988   Vacating Clyde Drive
                          Vacating alleys between Lots 168 and 213, 214, and
Ord. 88-20    11-8-1988   215; between Lots 215 and 88, 89, 90 and 216; and
                          between Lots 213 and 214
Ord. 89-01    3-14-1989   Vacating alley between Lots 115 and 116
Ord. 92-1     2-19-1992   Vacating aerial rights over portions of Oak and
                          Walnut Streets
Ord. 08-05    3-25-2008   Vacating alley located between Lots 218 and 219
Ord. 08-15    9-30-2008   Vacating alley located east of Lot 224 lying south of
                          South Street within Parcel 110505228008
                          Vacating alley lying perpendicular to West Street
Ord. 10-20    9-14-2010   located between Lots 197, 196 and 12 to the north and
                          Lots 217 and the unnumbered lot (Paul J. Steinke) to
                          the south
Ord. 12-26    12-11-2012  Vacating Belle Drive
                          Vacating alley lying perpendicular to Main Street
Ord. 17-20    5-23-2017   located between Lot 154 to the north and Lot 155 to
                          the south and Lot 153 to the west
                          Vacating alley from property lines on 104 West Walnut
Ord. 20-28    9-29-2020   Street located between Parcel 11-02-33-354-005 to the
                          south and Parcel 11-02-32-480-009
                          Vacating alley directly abutting and extended from
Ord. 23-33    10-25-2023  the property lines on 304 and 302 West Walnut Street
                          located between Parcel 11-02-33-479-022 to the south
                          and Parcel 11-02-32-479-021
                         
 
TABLE VII: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. 90-06    10-9-1990   Rezoning Lots 213, 214, 215 and 168 from R-2 and R-
                          3 District
Ord. 93-28    11-9-1993   Rezoning Lots 270 and 271 in the Gerber Addition from
                          Light Industrial to R-1 Residential
Ord. 95-11    6-13-1995   Rezoning 5.498 acres located along SR 274 from B-1 to
                          C-2 General Commercial/Light Industrial District
Ord. 95-12    6-13-1995   Rezoning 26.687 acres of land located along SR 274
                          from B-1 to I- 1
                          Rezoning 4.99 acres of land located along SR 219 from
Ord. 97-18    12-9-1997   R-3 to C-2 General Commercial/Light Industrial
                          District
                          Establishing I Industrial zoning for property located
Ord. 02-10    7-9-2002    at County Road 25A, approximately 1,600 feet north of
                          SR 274
                          Rezoning property located at County Road 25A,
Ord. 02-11    7-9-2002    approximately 800 feet south of Lock Two Road from A-
                          1 Agricultural District to R-1 Single-Family
                          Residential District
                          Rezoning 302 N. Main Street and 110 E. Lynn Street
Ord. 04-15    1-11-2005   from R-1 Single-Family Residential District to C-
                          2 General Commercial/Light Industrial District
Ord. 05-18    11-15-2005  Rezoning 205 South Main Street C-1 Commercial
                          District to R-1 Single-Family Residential District
                          Rezoning Lots 549 through 554 from R-1 Single-Family
Ord. 05-19    11-15-2005  District to R-2 Single-/Two-Family Residential
                          District
Ord. 06-28    - -2006     Rezoning Lots 561 and 562
                          Rezoning 6.26 acres of land located in the Northeast
Ord. 07-19    - -2007     Quarter of Section 4, Township 7 South, Range 6 East
                          in Dinsmore Township from A-1 to R-2 Single-/Two-
                          Family Residential District
                          Rezoning Lots 563 of the Sitzman Subdivision from I
Ord. 07-12    10-9-2007   Industrial to R-2 Single-/Two-Family Residential
                          District
Ord. 07-13    10-9-2007   Rezoning Lot 564 from I Industrial to C- 2 General
                          Commercial/Light Industrial
                          Rezoning 0.35 acres located in the Southwest Quarter
Ord. 08-03    - -2008     of Section 9,Township 7 South, Range 6 East in
                          Dinsmore Township from Business B-2 to R-2 Single-/
                          Two- Family Residential District
Ord. 13-02    1-15-2013   Rezoning Shaffer, W. Wilt and Hageman parcels to R-
                          1 Single- Family District
                          Rezoning Woodland Phases I and II, and Woodland
Ord. 16-10    5-5-2016    Retention Basin to R-2 Single-/ Two-Family
                          Residential District
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
Historical References to Ohio Revised Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
HISTORICAL REFERENCES TO OHIO REVISED CODE
R.C. Section Code Section
R.C. Section                             Code Section
1.01                                     10.01
1.02                                     10.02
1.05                                     10.02
1.14                                     10.03
1.15                                     10.03
1.23                                     10.05
1.42                                     10.03
1.43                                     10.03
1.44                                     10.02
1.45                                     10.03
1.46                                     10.03
1.47                                     10.18
1.48                                     10.18
1.49                                     10.18
1.50                                     10.07
1.51                                     10.06
1.52                                     10.06
1.54                                     10.04
1.55                                     10.05
1.56                                     10.05
1.57                                     10.04
1.58                                     10.04
1.59                                     10.02
128.01(A)                                136.20
128.96(F) - (H)                          136.20
128.99(A), (B)                           136.20
701.01                                   10.02
715.67                                   130.99
901.51                                   131.21
901.99(A)                                131.21
1349.17                                  131.31
1349.99(A)                               131.31
1533.171(A)                              131.24;
                                         135.05
1533.99(C)                               131.24;
                                         135.05
2901.01                                  130.02
2901.02                                  130.03
2901.03                                  130.04
2901.04                                  130.05
2901.05                                  130.13
2901.06                                  130.14
2901.08                                  130.15
2901.09                                  130.21
2901.11                                  130.16
2901.13                                  130.06
2901.21                                  130.07
2901.22                                  130.08
2901.23                                  130.09
2901.24                                  130.10
2903.05                                  135.02
2903.06                                  135.03
2903.08(A)(3), (C)(3), (D)(3), (E) - (G) 135.03
2903.09                                  135.01
2903.10                                  135.19
2903.13                                  135.04
2903.14                                  135.04
2903.16                                  135.19
2903.21                                  135.06
2903.211                                 135.06
2903.22                                  135.06
2903.31                                  135.17
2903.311(B), (C)                         135.17
2903.33                                  135.20
2903.34                                  135.20
2903.341                                 135.20
2903.35                                  135.20
2903.36                                  135.20
2905.03                                  135.07
2905.12                                  135.09
2907.01                                  133.01
2907.04                                  133.02
2907.06                                  133.03
2907.08                                  133.05
2907.09                                  133.04
2907.10                                  133.06
2907.23                                  133.07
2907.231                                 133.07
2907.24                                  133.08
2907.241                                 133.08
2907.25                                  133.09
2907.26                                  133.13
2907.31                                  133.10
2907.311                                 133.11
2907.33                                  133.12
2907.35                                  133.10
2907.36                                  133.14
2907.37                                  133.15
2907.38                                  133.16
2907.39                                  133.17
2907.40                                  133.18
2909.01                                  131.01
2909.03                                  131.02
2909.06                                  131.03
2909.07                                  131.04
2909.08(A) - (E)                         131.05
2909.09                                  131.03
2909.10                                  131.34
2909.101                                 131.34
2909.11(B) - (D)                         131.02
2909.31                                  136.21
2911.21                                  131.06
2911.211                                 131.06
2911.23                                  131.06
2911.32                                  131.07
2913.01                                  131.01
2913.02                                  131.08
2913.03                                  131.09
2913.04                                  131.10
2913.07                                  131.33
2913.11                                  131.11
2913.21                                  131.12
2913.31(B), (C)(2)                       131.26
2913.32                                  131.27
2913.33                                  131.13
2913.34                                  131.29
2913.40                                  131.23
2913.401                                 131.23
2913.41                                  131.14
2913.42                                  131.15
2913.43                                  131.16
2913.44                                  131.28
2913.441                                 132.11
2913.45                                  131.17
2913.47                                  131.23
2913.48                                  131.23
2913.51                                  131.18
2913.61(B) - (E)                         131.19
2913.71                                  131.20
2913.72                                  131.25
2913.73                                  131.25
2915.01                                  134.01
2915.02(A) - (G), (K)                    134.02
2915.03                                  134.03
2915.04                                  134.04
2915.05                                  134.05
2915.06                                  134.14
2915.061                                 134.14
2915.09                                  134.06
2915.091                                 134.10
2915.092                                 134.11
2915.093                                 134.12
2915.094                                 134.13
2915.10                                  134.07
2915.11                                  134.08
2915.12                                  134.09
2915.13                                  134.12
2915.14                                  134.15
2917.01                                  132.10
2917.03                                  132.01
2917.031                                 132.01
2917.04                                  132.02
2917.05                                  132.03
2917.11                                  132.04
2917.12                                  132.05
2917.13                                  132.06
2917.14                                  132.11
2917.21                                  132.07
2917.211                                 133.20
2917.31                                  132.08
2917.32                                  132.09
2917.40                                  132.13
2917.41                                  132.14
2919.01                                  135.10
2919.11                                  135.10
2919.12                                  135.10
2919.121                                 135.10
2919.122                                 135.10
2919.14                                  135.11
2919.18                                  135.10
2919.21                                  135.13
2919.22(A) - (E), (H)                    135.14
2919.224                                 135.12
2919.23                                  135.15
2919.231                                 135.15
2919.24                                  135.18
2919.25                                  135.16
2919.27                                  135.23
2921.01                                  136.01
2921.04                                  136.17
2921.13                                  136.02
2921.14                                  136.14
2921.15                                  136.19
2921.21                                  136.03
2921.22                                  136.04
2921.23                                  136.05
2921.24                                  136.16
2921.25                                  136.16
2921.29                                  136.21
2921.31                                  136.06
2921.32                                  136.07
2921.321                                 136.15
2921.33                                  136.08
2921.331(A) - (C), (E), (F)              70.02
2921.36                                  136.13
2921.37                                  136.13
2921.42                                  136.09
2921.43                                  136.10
2921.44                                  136.11
2921.45                                  136.12
2921.51                                  132.12
2921.52(A) - (D)                         136.18
2923.02                                  130.11
2923.03                                  130.12
2923.11                                  137.01
2923.12                                  137.02
2923.1211(B), (C)                        137.13
2923.1212                                137.13
2923.122(C) - (G)                        137.11
2923.126                                 137.13
2923.131                                 137.12
2923.15                                  137.03
2923.16                                  137.04
2923.162                                 137.09
2923.18                                  137.10
2923.19                                  137.06
2923.20                                  137.07
2923.201                                 137.14
2923.211                                 137.08
2923.24                                  137.05
2925.03(A) - (C), (I)                    138.02
2925.04(A), (B), (C)(5), (G)             138.06
2925.11                                  138.03
2925.12                                  138.04
2925.13(A) - (C), (F)                    138.05
2925.14                                  138.13
2925.141                                 138.13
2925.31                                  138.07
2925.32(B)(4), (D)(2), (F), (G)          138.10
2925.33                                  138.10
2925.34                                  138.19
2925.36(A) - (C)                         138.08
2925.37(A), (G)                          138.12
2925.50                                  138.09
2925.51                                  138.11
2925.511                                 138.11
2925.55                                  138.17
2925.56                                  138.17
2925.57                                  138.17
2925.58                                  138.18
2925.62                                  138.20
2927.01                                  135.28
2927.02                                  135.25
2927.021                                 135.25
2927.022                                 135.25
2927.023                                 135.25
2927.024                                 135.25
2927.03                                  135.21
2927.11                                  131.35
2927.12                                  135.22
2927.15                                  135.08
2927.17                                  133.19
2927.27                                  130.20
2929.21                                  130.99
2929.22                                  130.18
2929.23                                  133.99
2929.24                                  130.99
2929.25                                  130.99
2929.26                                  130.99
2929.27                                  130.99
2929.28                                  130.99
2929.31                                  130.99
2929.41                                  130.19
2935.041                                 131.22
2935.28                                  70.08
2935.36(E)                               130.02
2981.07                                  131.30
2981.11                                  130.17
2981.12                                  130.17
2981.13(A)                               130.17
3701.81                                  135.27
3701.99(C)                               135.27
3715.05                                  138.18
3715.06                                  138.18
3716.11                                  135.24
3716.99(C)                               135.24
3719.08(A), (E)                          138.14
3719.172(A), (B)                         138.15
3719.19                                  138.09
3719.99(C)                               138.14
3719.99(E)                               138.15
3767.201                                 70.09
3767.99(D)                               70.09
3773.06                                  137.09
3773.99(A)                               137.09
3780.99                                  138.21
3781.55                                  133.04
3791.031                                 135.26
4301.01                                  91.01
4301.20                                  91.02
4301.21                                  91.03
4301.22                                  91.04
4301.244                                 91.01
4301.58                                  91.05
4301.60                                  91.06
4301.61                                  91.28
4301.611                                 91.29
4301.62                                  91.07
4301.63                                  91.08
4301.631                                 91.09
4301.633                                 91.11
4301.634                                 91.12
4301.637                                 91.14
4301.638                                 91.04,
                                         91.13
4301.639(A), (C)                         91.15
4301.64                                  91.16
4301.65                                  91.10
4301.66                                  91.17
4301.67                                  91.19
4301.68                                  91.20
4301.69                                  91.13
4301.70                                  91.99
4301.74                                  91.27
                                         91.07;
4301.99(A)                               91.10;
                                         91.99
                                         91.04;
4301.99(B)                               91.09;
                                         91.16;
                                         91.19
                                         91.03;
                                         91.05;
                                         91.06;
4301.99(C)                               91.11;
                                         91.13;
                                         91.17;
                                         91.20;
                                         91.27
4301.99(D)                               91.13
4301.99(D), (H)                          91.04
4301.99(E)                               91.08,
                                         91.09
4301.99(F)                               91.12
4301.99(I)                               91.13
4301.99(J)                               91.10
4303.202(D)(2)                           91.17
4303.208(C)                              91.17
4303.25                                  91.05
4303.40                                  91.26
4303.99(D)                               91.17
4399.09                                  91.21
4399.10                                  91.22
4399.14                                  91.23
4399.15                                  91.23
4399.16                                  91.25
4399.99(A)                               91.25
4399.99(B)                               91.21
4399.99(C)                               91.22
4399.99(D)                               91.23
4399.99(E)                               91.23
4501.01(LL)                              70.01
4501.01(TT)                              72.061
4503.05                                  71.02
4503.11(A)                               71.01
4503.111(A), (C)                         71.01
4503.111(B)                              71.01
4503.11(D)                               71.01
4503.12(A)                               71.01
4503.12(D)                               71.01
4503.21(A)                               71.01
4503.21(B), (C)                          71.01
4503.236                                 71.03
4505.18                                  71.04
4506.01                                  71.45
4506.011                                 71.46
4506.03(A) - (C)                         71.48
4506.03(D)                               71.48
4506.04(A), (B)                          71.47
4506.04(C)                               71.47
4506.05(A) - (C)                         71.48
4506.05(D)                               71.48
4506.10(A), (E)                          71.49
4506.12(I)                               71.47
4506.12(J)                               71.47
4506.15(A)                               71.50
4506.15(B)                               71.50
4506.17(H)                               71.50
4506.17(N)                               71.50
4506.19                                  71.51
4506.20                                  71.52
4506.23                                  71.50
4506.99                                  71.99
4507.02(A)                               71.22
4507.03                                  71.22
4507.04                                  71.22
4507.05(I)                               71.21
4507.05(F)                               71.21
4507.071(B) - (I)                        71.21
4507.071(J)                              71.21
4507.213                                 71.22
4507.30                                  71.20
4507.31(A)                               71.21
4507.31(B)                               71.21
4507.321                                 71.23
4507.35                                  71.26
4507.36                                  71.27
4507.99                                  71.99
4509.102                                 136.02
4509.74                                  73.33
4510.037(J)                              71.28
                                         71.28;
4510.04                                  71.30;
                                         71.31
4510.05                                  71.25
4510.11                                  71.28
4510.111                                 71.28
4510.12                                  71.29
4510.14                                  71.30
4510.15                                  71.25
4510.16                                  71.31
4510.21                                  71.31
4510.44                                  73.08
4511.01                                  70.01
4511.02                                  10.16
4511.03                                  70.03
4511.031                                 70.38
4511.04                                  70.04
4511.041                                 70.04
4511.042                                 70.04
4511.05                                  70.05
4511.051                                 70.06
4511.08                                  70.07
4511.12(A)                               70.30
4511.12(B)                               70.30
4511.121(A) - (C), (E)                   70.30
4511.121(D)                              70.30
4511.13                                  70.31
4511.131                                 70.32
4511.132                                 70.33
4511.14                                  70.34
4511.16                                  70.35
4511.17                                  70.36
4511.18                                  70.37
4511.181                                 73.01
4511.19(A) - (M)                         73.01
4511.191(A)                              73.01
4511.191(D)                              73.02
4511.192                                 73.01
4511.194                                 73.03
4511.20                                  73.05
4511.201                                 73.06
4511.202                                 73.07
4511.203                                 71.24
4511.204                                 72.131
4511.205                                 72.132
4511.213(A) - (C)                        72.120
4511.211(A) - (E)                        73.10
4511.21(A) - (G)                         73.10
4511.213(D)                              72.120
4511.213(E)                              72.120
4511.211(F)                              73.10
4511.21(O)                               73.10
4511.21(P)                               73.10
4511.214                                 73.16
4511.215                                 73.16
4511.216                                 73.16
4511.22                                  73.11
4511.23                                  73.13
4511.24                                  73.12
4511.25                                  72.001
4511.251                                 73.09
4511.26                                  72.003
4511.27                                  72.004
4511.28                                  72.005
4511.29                                  72.006
4511.30                                  72.007
4511.31                                  72.008
4511.32                                  72.009
4511.33                                  72.010
4511.34                                  72.011
4511.35                                  72.012
4511.36                                  72.013
4511.37                                  72.014
4511.38                                  72.015
4511.39                                  72.016
4511.40                                  72.017
4511.41                                  72.030
4511.42                                  72.031
4511.43                                  72.032
4511.431(A)                              72.033
4511.431(B)                              72.033
4511.432(D)                              72.033
4511.44                                  72.034
4511.441                                 72.035
4511.45                                  72.036
4511.451                                 72.037
4511.452                                 72.038
4511.454                                 72.036
4511.46                                  72.039
4511.47                                  72.040
4511.48                                  72.041
4511.481                                 72.060
4511.49                                  72.055
4511.491                                 72.059
4511.50                                  72.056
4511.51                                  72.057
4511.511                                 72.058
4511.512                                 72.061
4511.513                                 72.062
4511.514                                 72.063
4511.52                                  75.01
4511.521                                 75.02
4511.522                                 75.03
4511.53                                  75.04
4511.54                                  75.05
4511.55                                  75.06
4511.56                                  75.07
4511.60                                  72.002
4511.61                                  72.075
4511.62                                  72.076
4511.63                                  72.077
4511.64                                  72.078
4511.65                                  70.10
4511.66                                  76.01
4511.661                                 76.02
4511.67                                  76.03
4511.68                                  76.04
4511.681                                 76.06
4511.69                                  76.05
4511.70                                  72.115
4511.701                                 72.116
4511.71(A)                               72.117
4511.71(B)                               72.117
4511.711(A)                              72.118
4511.711(B)                              72.118
4511.712                                 72.119
4511.713(A)                              72.118
4511.713(B)                              72.118
4511.714(A), (B)                         72.117
4511.714(C)                              72.117
4511.714(D)                              72.117
4511.72(A)                               72.120
4511.72(B)                               72.120
4511.73                                  72.121
4511.74(A), (B)                          72.122
4511.74(C)                               72.122
4511.75                                  72.090
4511.751                                 72.091
4511.76(C), (H), (I)                     72.092
4511.761                                 72.093
4511.762                                 72.094
4511.763                                 72.095
4511.764                                 72.096
4511.77                                  72.097
4511.771                                 72.098
4511.772                                 72.099
4511.79                                  73.04
4511.81(A) - (H), (K), (L)               72.123
4511.82(A), (B), (D)                     72.122
4511.82(C)                               72.122
4511.84                                  72.126
4511.85                                  72.127
4511.99                                  70.99
4511.991                                 70.99
4513.02(A), (H)                          74.01
4513.021                                 74.02
4513.03                                  74.03
4513.04                                  74.04
4513.05                                  74.05
4513.06                                  74.06
4513.07                                  74.07
4513.071                                 74.08
4513.08                                  74.09
4513.09                                  74.10
4513.10                                  74.11
4513.11                                  74.12
4513.111                                 74.12
4513.112                                 74.12
4513.113                                 74.12
4513.114                                 74.12
4513.115                                 74.12
4513.12                                  74.13
4513.13                                  74.14
4513.14                                  74.15
4513.15                                  74.16
4513.16                                  74.17
4513.17                                  74.18
4513.17(F)                               74.18
4513.171                                 74.18
4513.171(B)                              74.18
4513.18                                  74.19
4513.181                                 74.20
4513.182                                 74.21
4513.19                                  74.22
4513.20                                  74.23
4513.201                                 74.24
4513.202                                 74.25
4513.21                                  74.26
4513.22                                  74.27
4513.23                                  74.28
4513.24                                  74.29
4513.241(C) - (J)                        74.31
4513.241(K)                              74.31
4513.25                                  74.30
4513.26                                  74.31
4513.261                                 74.32
4513.262                                 74.33
4513.263                                 72.124
4513.27                                  74.34
4513.28                                  74.35
4513.29                                  74.35
4513.30                                  74.51
4513.31                                  74.52
4513.32                                  74.53
4513.33                                  74.54
4513.34                                  74.50
4513.36                                  73.15
4513.361                                 73.14
4513.50                                  74.38
4513.51(A), (B)                          74.38
4513.51(D)                               74.38
4513.66                                  70.12
4513.68                                  70.12
                                         74.11;
                                         74.21;
                                         74.23—
                                         74.25;
4513.99                                  74.30;
                                         74.31;
                                         74.34;
                                         74.35;
                                         74.50—
                                         74.53
4519.01                                  75.25
4519.02                                  75.34
4519.20(A), (B)                          75.26
4519.20(C)                               75.26
4519.22(A)                               75.26
4519.22(B)                               75.26
4519.40                                  75.27
4519.401                                 73.16
4519.41                                  75.28
4519.44                                  75.29
4519.45                                  75.30
4519.46                                  75.31
4519.47                                  75.32
4519.48                                  75.33
4519.66                                  75.35
4549.02                                  73.30
4549.021                                 73.31
4549.03                                  73.32
4549.05                                  70.11
4549.08                                  71.06
4549.081(B)                              70.30
4549.081(C)                              70.30
4549.10                                  71.07
4549.11(A)                               71.01
4549.11(B)                               71.01
4549.12(A)                               71.01
4549.12(B)                               71.01
4549.18                                  71.05
4549.20                                  74.39
4731.481                                 138.17
4731.99(F)                               138.17
4734.161                                 138.17
4734.99(B)                               138.17
4933.18                                  131.32
4933.19                                  131.32
5577.02                                  74.55
5577.03                                  74.56
5577.04                                  74.56
5577.041                                 74.56
5577.042                                 74.61
5577.043                                 74.61
5577.044                                 74.61
5577.045                                 74.61
5577.05                                  74.57
5577.06                                  74.57
5577.10                                  74.58
5577.11                                  74.59
5577.12                                  74.60
5577.15                                  74.53
5577.99(A)                               74.55
5577.99(C)                               74.56;
                                         74.57
5577.99(D)                               74.58
5577.99(E)                               74.59
5589.08                                  72.128
5589.081                                 74.37
5589.12                                  131.10
                                         72.128;
5589.99(B)                               74.37;
                                         131.10
                                         
 
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
82-7     3-2-1982    TSO Table I
84-8     6-12-1984   Ch. 77 Sch. III
85-6     5-14-1985   TSO Table II
86-27    - -1986     TSO Table I
86-17    7-8-1986    TSO Table II
87-8     3-10-1987   TSO Table I
87-23    11-10-1987  31.01
88-17    7-12-1988   51.01
89-10    3-14-1989   TSO Table I
89-12    3-14-1989   TSO Table I
89-27    10-10-1989  33.04
89-32    12-12-1989  31.04
90-7     8-14-1990   31.03
90-5     9-11-1990   31.02
91-9     5-14-1991   30.09
91-14    8-13-1991   TSO Table I
91-15    8-13-1991   35.53
92-4     3-10-1992   TSO Table I
93-1     1-12-1993   TSO Table I
93-27    8-10-1993   TSO Table I
93-37    12-14-1993  TSO Table I
94-7     3-14-1994   TSO Table II
94-8     3-14-1994   TSO Table V
94-9     3-14-1994   TSO Table V
94-10    3-14-1994   TSO Table I
94-37    12-13-1994  TSO Table II
95-19    - -1995     TSO Table I
96-19    7-9-1996    TSO Table I
96-20    9-10-1996   TSO Table IV
97-26    11-11-1997  TSO Table I
97-29    1-20-1998   TSO Table II
98-13    2-10-1998   TSO Table II
98-16    3-10-1998   34.01
98-28    9-9-1998    31.15—
                     31.22
01-09    - -2001     TSO Table I
01-01    1-9-2001    TSO Table I
00-24    2-13-2001   36.15—
                     36.19
01-03    3-14-2001   TSO Table I
01-14    7-10-2001   TSO Table I
02-29    12-17-2002  TSO Table I
03-28    10-14-2003  TSO Table II
05-10    4-12-2005   35.46
05-14    6-22-2005   TSO Table II
05-24    11-15-2005  TSO Table I
05-25    11-15-2005  TSO Table II
06-01    1-10-2006   TSO Table II
06-03    1-31-2006   TSO Table I
06-26    8-8-2006    TSO Table I
06-25    9-12-2006   TSO Table I
07-14    - -2007     TSO Table II
07-15    - -2007     TSO Table II
07-06    3-13-2007   TSO Table II
08-06    3-11-2008   35.58
09-01    1-27-2009   TSO Table I
09-03    2-24-2009   35.54
09-02    3-10-2009   TSO Table I
09-18    12-29-2009  30.06
10-04    2-9-2010    TSO Table I
10-11    4-27-2010   TSO Table V
10-16    7-27-2010   36.04
10-23    12-14-2010  30.01
11-05    4-12-2011   TSO Table I
12-2     1-31-2012   TSO Table I
12-21    9-25-2012   TSO Table II
12-27    12-11-2012  TSO Table I
12-28    12-11-2012  TSO Table I
13-18    6-25-2013   34.24
13-19    7-30-2013   TSO Table I
13-21    8-13-2013   TSO Table I
13-33    12-10-2013  TSO Table I
14-10    5-20-2014   TSO Table I
15-16    11-10-2015  36.02
15-17    11-10-2015  36.01
15-18    11-10-2015  TSO Table I
15-19    11-10-2015  TSO Table I
16-01    1-12-2016   TSO Table I
16-08    4-26-2016   TSO Table II
2016-19  9-27-2016   TSO Table I
16-25    12-13-2016  35.49
17-21    6-27-2017   TSO Table I
18-10    3-14-2018   TSO Table I
10-18    10-5-2018   TSO Table I
19-07    3-12-2019   TSO Table I
19-11    3-12-2019   TSO Table I
19-13    4-9-2019    TSO Table I
19-15    4-30-2019   TSO Table I
19-16    6-11-2019   TSO Table II
19-17    6-11-2019   TSO Table II
19-18    6-11-2019   TSO Table II
–      7-10-2019   TSO Table I
19-22    7-30-2019   TSO Table II
2019-23  8-13-2019   TSO Table I
19-27    9-17-2019   TSO Table I
19-28    9-17-2019   TSO Table I
19-31    10-10-2019  TSO Table I
19-32    10-10-2019  TSO Table I
19-41    11-12-2019  TSO Table I
20-04    1-28-2020   TSO Table II
–      3-11-2020   TSO Table I
20-22    8-11-2020   TSO Table II
20-29    11-10-2020  TSO Table I
21-18    7-13-2021   TSO Table I
21-28    10-26-2021  33.27
22-08    3-3-2022    TSO Table I
22-09    3-22-2022   35.05
23-25    6-28-2023   36.04
23-26    7-6-2023    TSO Table I
23-30    10-2-2023   30.06
24-11    1-13-2024   TSO Table II
24-13    2-29-2024   TSO Table I
24-14    2-29-2024   33.27
                    
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
81-3     3-10-1981   Ch. 78 Sch. II
81-19    12-8-1981   Ch. 78 Sch. II
82-16    - -1982     94.01;
                     94.99
82-22    - -1982     TSO Table IV
82-1     1-5-1982    TSO Table I
82-10    3-15-1982   TSO Table I
82-15    7-13-1982   35.52
83-6     9-13-1983   93.02;
                     93.99
83-10    11-23-1983  TSO Table IV
84-10    - -1984     TSO Table IV
84-11    8-14-1984   TSO Table I
84-15    11-13-1984  51.03
84-20    11-14-1984  Ch. 77 Sch. II
85-9     6-11-1985   Ch. 77 Sch. IV
85-16    9-10-1985   TSO Table II
86-1     3-1-1986    TSO Table IV
86-10    6-10-1986   Ch. 78 Sch. II
86-18    9-9-1986    TSO Table IV
87-1     1-13-1987   TSO Table I
87-3     3-10-1987   Ch. 78 Sch. II
87-10    5-5-1987    TSO Table VI
87-11    6-9-1987    TSO Table IV
87-12    7-7-1987    72.079
87-15    11-10-1987  51.02
88-1     - -1988     53.01
88-4     3-8-1988    33.20—
                     33.29
88-13    5-18-1988   TSO Table I
88-8     6-14-1988   Ch. 78 Sch. II
88-18    7-12-1988   TSO Table I
88-19    11-8-1988   TSO Table VI
88-20    11-8-1988   TSO Table VI
89-16    2-28-1989   TSO Table I
89-01    3-14-1989   TSO Table VI
89-25    9-12-1989   TSO Table I
90-06    10-9-1990   TSO Table VII
91-13    8-13-1991   Ch. 77 Sch. VI
91-19    1-14-1992   32.02
92-1     2-19-1992   TSO Table VI
92-13    7-14-1992   TSO Table III
93-10    6-8-1993    30.05
                     52.01—
93-14    7-13-1993   52.08;
                     52.99
93-24    7-29-1993   TSO Table IV
                     90.01—
93-19    9-14-1993   90.04;
                     90.99
93-28    11-9-1993   TSO Table VII
93-38    12-14-1993  Ch. 77 Sch. IV
94-20    - -1994     TSO Table I
94-13    7-12-1994   Ch. 77 Sch. VI
94-27    8-9-1994    Ch.77 Sch. V
95-26    - -1995     33.01
95-11    6-13-1995   TSO Table VII
95-12    6-13-1995   TSO Table VII
95-24    10-10-1995  TSO Table I
95-30    12-12-1995  TSO Table I
96-6     4-9-1996    94.02
96-23    11-12-1996  Ch. 77 Sch. VI
96-24    11-12-1996  TSO Table I
95-32    12-10-1996  33.01
97-22    - -1997     TSO Table IV
97-6     3-20-1997   TSO Table I
97-15    10-14-1997  110.02;
                     110.99
97-25    11-19-1997  30.02
97-18    12-9-1997   TSO Table VII
97-27    12-9-1997   TSO Table I
97-39    12-22-1997  35.04
98-17    3-10-1998   35.56
98-24    5-19-1998   35.45
99-3     1-12-1999   TSO Table I
99-1     3-9-1999    Ch. 77 Sch. VI
99-2     3-9-1999    Ch. 78 Sch. II
99-19    8-24-1999   TSO Table IV
99-29    11-9-1999   TSO Table I
99-30    12-14-1999  TSO Table II
00-03    2-8-2000    TSO Table I
00-11    7-11-2000   35.55
00-18    9-12-2000   TSO Table I
00-14    10-10-2000  35.01
00-17    10-10-2000  Ch. 77 Sch. VI
00-27    12-12-2000  TSO Table I
                     34.15—
00-28    12-12-2000  34.23;
                     34.35—
                     34.45
01-06    3-14-2001   TSO Table I
01-08    7-10-2001   TSO Table I
01-21    11-13-2001  TSO Table II
01-26    11-13-2001  TSO Table I
01-31    12-11-2001  TSO Table V
                     153.001—
                     153.007;
                     153.020—
                     153.024;
                     153.035—
                     153.043;
                     153.055—
                     153.073;
                     153.085—
                     153.092;
                     153.105—
                     153.113;
                     153.125—
03-04    - -2002     153.138;
                     153.150—
                     153.159;
                     153.170—
                     153.182;
                     153.195—
                     153.203;
                     153.215—
                     153.224;
                     153.235—
                     153.242;
                     153.255—
                     153.267;
                     153.999
01-26    2-12-2002   TSO Table IV
01-29    2-12-2002   TSO Table II
01-30    2-12-2002   TSO Table II
02-09    5-14-2002   35.57
02-10    7-9-2002    TSO Table VII
02-11    7-9-2002    TSO Table VII
02-14    7-9-2002    TSO Table I
02-20    10-8-2002   Ch. 78 Sch. II
02-23    12-17-2002  TSO Table I
03-05    3-4-2003    TSO Table I
03-06    3-11-2003   TSO Table V
03-12    4-28-2003   TSO Table V
03-17    6-10-2003   TSO Table I
03-18    9-9-2003    TSO Table I
03-19    9-9-2003    TSO Table I
03-20    10-14-2003  Ch. 78 Sch. I
03-22    10-14-2003  TSO Table III
03-24    10-14-2003  TSO Table III
03-34    12-9-2003   TSO Table I
03-36    12-9-2003   33.03
04-04    2-10-2004   TSO Table I
04-07    3-29-2004   TSO Table I
04-11    10-12-2004  TSO Table I
04-19    11-9-2004   TSO Table I
04-17    12-14-2004  TSO Table I
04-15    1-11-2005   TSO Table VII
05-07    4-12-2005   32.01
05-13    5-31-2005   TSO Table I
05-22    10-11-2005  TSO Table I
05-18    11-15-2005  TSO Table VII
05-19    11-15-2005  TSO Table VII
05-27    12-27-2005  TSO Table V
05-28    12-27-2005  TSO Table III
06-28    - -2006     TSO Table VII
06-08    3-28-2006   Ch.77 Sch. V
06-19    6-13-2006   TSO Table I
06-20    6-27-2006   TSO Table I
06-21    7-11-2006   TSO Table IV
06-30    12-12-2006  TSO Table I
06-09    - -2007     TSO Table I
07-19    - -2007     TSO Table VII
07-21    - -2007     TSO Table I
07-02    2-27-2007   TSO Table III
07-03    2-27-2007   TSO Table III
07-04    2-27-2007   TSO Table III
07-20    9-25-2007   Ch. 78 Sch. I
07-12    10-9-2007   TSO Table VII
07-13    10-9-2007   TSO Table VII
07-22    11-13-2007  TSO Table I
07-23    12-11-2007  Ch. 78 Sch. II
08-03    - -2008     TSO Table VII
08-18    - -2008     TSO Table I
08-05    3-25-2008   TSO Table VI
08-10    4-29-2008   TSO Table I
08-15    9-30-2008   TSO Table VI
08-17    11-25-2008  TSO Table I
2008-19  11-25-2008  TSO Table I
09-08    4-28-2009   TSO Table V
09-10    7-28-2009   30.08
09-09    8-11-2009   Ch. 78 Sch. I
09-14    10-27-2009  TSO Table I
09-20    11-24-2009  TSO Table V
09-19    12-29-2009  36.45—
                     36.50
10-03    1-26-2010   35.48
10-01    2-9-2010    34.39
10-05    2-9-2010    TSO Table I
10-07    3-30-2010   36.30—
                     36.34
10-10    5-25-2010   33.21
10-14    6-22-2010   153.242
10-15    6-22-2010   153.152
10-19    9-14-2010   TSO Table I
10-20    9-14-2010   TSO Table VI
10-21    11-9-2010   135.29
11-09    6-28-2011   33.05
11-10    7-12-2011   TSO Table I
11-12    9-27-2011   34.22
11-16    10-11-2011  TSO Table I
12-14    5-8-2012    34.46
12-17    8-14-2012   TSO Table I
12-18    8-28-2012   TSO Table I
                     152.001—
                     152.012;
                     152.025—
                     152.030;
                     152.040—
                     152.046;
                     152.060—
12-23    11-27-2012  152.067;
                     152.080—
                     152.086;
                     152.100—
                     152.123;
                     152.135—
                     152.140;
                     152.999
12-26    12-11-2012  TSO Table VI
13-03    1-8-2013    TSO Table III
13-02    1-15-2013   TSO Table VII
13-10    3-12-2013   TSO Table I
13-11    3-12-2013   TSO Table I
–      3-20-2013   TSO Table I
13-07    3-26-2013   Ch. 77 Sch. I
13-09    3-26-2013   Ch. 78 Sch. II
13-22    8-27-2013   TSO Table I
13-20    9-10-2013   53.03;
                     53.99
–      11-26-2013  TSO Table I
13-27    12-10-2013  92.01;
                     92.99
13-29    12-10-2013  TSO Table I
13-30    12-10-2013  TSO Table I
14-02    1-14-2014   TSO Table I
14-14    7-29-2014   35.47
15-01    1-13-2015   TSO Table I
                     151.001—
                     151.010;
                     151.020—
                     151.031;
                     151.045—
15-05    3-31-2015   151.054;
                     151.065—
                     151.070;
                     151.080;
                     151.081;
                     151.999
15-07    5-19-2015   30.07
15-15    11-24-2015  TSO Table I
15-20    12-8-2015   35.35
–      1-12-2016   TSO Table II
16-02    2-23-2016   93.01
16-10    5-5-2016    TSO Table VII
                     35.15—
16-24    12-13-2016  35.24;
                     35.99
17-03    1-10-2017   TSO Table I
17-11    1-31-2017   53.02
17-20    5-23-2017   TSO Table VI
17-23    5-30-2017   TSO Table V
17-22    6-27-2017   51.40—
                     51.42
17-25    7-11-2017   110.01
17-29    10-31-2017  TSO Table I
17-30    10-31-2017  TSO Table I
18-04    2-13-2018   35.35
18-09    4-10-2018   36.03
18-15    9-11-2018   TSO Table I
–      11-13-2018  TSO Table I
18-16    11-13-2018  TSO Table I
19-10    2-12-2019   TSO Table I
19-12    3-12-2019   TSO Table I
–      4-10-2019   TSO Table I
19-14    4-30-2019   TSO Table I
19-21    7-30-2019   TSO Table I
–      8-2-2019    TSO Table I
19-30    9-17-2019   TSO Table I
19-45    11-12-2019  TSO Table II
19-46    11-12-2019  TSO Table II
19-37    12-10-2019  50.01—
                     50.04
19-38    12-10-2019  51.30
19-40    12-10-2019  35.03
19-42    12-10-2019  35.51
20-02    1-28-2020   94.15—
                     94.20
–      2-24-2020   TSO Table I
20-03    2-25-2020   51.15—
                     51.30
20-10    3-10-2020   TSO Table II
20-08    3-23-2020   TSO Table I
20-09    3-23-2020   TSO Table I
20-14    6-9-2020    34.02
                     92.15—
20-20    7-28-2020   92.32;
                     92.99
20-25    9-8-2020    152.102;
                     152.108
20-28    9-29-2020   TSO Table VI
20-31    12-8-2020   35.02
21-03    2-9-2021    150.01
21-09    4-27-2021   71.08
21-10    5-11-2021   Ch.77 Sch. V
21-11    5-11-2021   Ch.77 Sch. V
21-12    5-11-2021   Ch. 77 Sch. VI
21-13    5-11-2021   Ch. 77 Sch. VI
21-15    5-11-2021   TSO Table II
21-17    7-22-2021   TSO Table I
21-20    7-27-2021   35.50
                     34.20;
21-27    10-26-2021  34.43—
                     34.45
21-29    10-26-2021  32.15—
                     32.24
21-26    11-9-2021   30.04
21-33    11-9-2021   Ch. 78 Sch. II
21-30    11-30-2021  76.13;
                     76.14
22-03    1-11-2022   TSO Table I
22-01    2-8-2022    30.03
22-13    5-3-2022    TSO Table I
22-24    12-20-2022  30.10
23-01    1-11-2023   TSO Table I
23-02    1-11-2023   TSO Table I
23-10    2-8-2023    TSO Table I
23-11    2-8-2023    TSO Table I
23-21    6-14-2023   30.03
23-22    6-14-2023   36.03
23-31    9-13-2023   TSO Table I
23-33    10-25-2023  TSO Table VI
                     50.01—
23-36    12-13-2023  50.04;
                     51.29
23-38    12-13-2024  110.01
                     153.020—
                     153.024;
24-05    2-29-2024   153.035—
                     153.037;
                     153.043
                     153.020—
                     153.024;
24-06    2-29-2024   153.035—
                     153.037;
                     153.044
24-07    2-29-2024   152.112
24-10    2-29-2024   33.06
                    
 
 
