VILLAGE OF BUCKLAND, OHIO
TITLE XVII:  MUNICIPAL REGULATIONS
Contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 249.10, passed 5-11-2010
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
432 Walnut Street, 12th Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Email: customerservice@amlegal.com
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
   Chapter
      
170.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
171.   ADMINISTRATION
      
172.   PUBLIC WORKS
      
173.   TRAFFIC CODE
      
174.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
175.   BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      
176.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
177.   LAND USAGE
CHAPTER 170:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Editor’s note:  At present there are no ordinances for this chapter.  This
chapter is reserved for future legislation.  For General Provisions, see Ohio
Basic Code, Title I.
CHAPTER 171:  ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
171.01   Village Fiscal Officer
§ 171.01  VILLAGE FISCAL OFFICER.
   The Council of the Village of Buckland, Ohio, pursuant to R.C. § 733.262,
hereby changes the office of Clerk/Treasurer of said village to the Fiscal
Officer of said village and further changes said office so that Fiscal Officers
henceforth shall be appointed and not elected.
(Ord. 247.10, passed 1-12-2010)
CHAPTER 172:  PUBLIC WORKS
Section
   
172.01   Curbside pick-up of refuse and waste
§ 172.01  CURBSIDE PICK-UP OF REFUSE AND WASTE.
   (A)   All trash, refuse, garbage or waste left outside of a residence shall
be contained in a bag or container designed and/or provided for that purpose.
   (B)   All bags or containers containing trash, refuse, garbage or waste,
including recyclables, left for pick-up by a garbage or waste collector shall
be placed and secured so as not to interfere with traffic on adjacent roadways.
   (C)   All bags or containers containing trash, refuse, garbage or waste,
including recyclables, shall be placed at curbside for pick-up no earlier than
6:00 p.m. the day prior to pick-up and shall be removed from the curbside by 6:
00 p.m. the day of the scheduled pick-up.
(Ord. 246.09, passed 4-9-2009)
CHAPTER 173:  TRAFFIC CODE
Section
   
173.01   Parking restrictions
   
173.02   Engine braking prohibited
   
173.99   Penalty
§ 173.01  PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall park any truck with a hauling capacity of 1-1/2 ton,
or more, upon the streets and alleys of the village.
   (B)   No person shall park any semi-tractor, semi-trailer, bus, RV, boat,
camper or tent camper upon the streets and alleys of the village.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon a street,
other than an alley, in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave
available less than 10 feet of the width of the roadway for free movement of
vehicular traffic, except that a driver may stop temporarily during the actual
loading or unloading of passengers, and then not to exceed 30 minutes, or as
directed to by a police officer or traffic control signal.
      (2)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley
except while actually loading and unloading and then, only for a period not to
exceed 30 minutes.
   (D)   This section does not prohibit parking while the vehicle is being used
to make deliveries or pick- ups at the time of its parking, so long as the 30-
minute time limit is not exceeded, or if the vehicle is actually being used in
connection with the construction or repair of property adjacent to the street
or alley upon which the vehicle is parked. This exception does not permit the
blocking of access to driveways.
(Ord. --, passed  - - ) 
Penalty, see § 173.99
§ 173.02  ENGINE BRAKING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall apply an engine brake, (a practice commonly known as “jake
braking”), when operating a motor vehicle upon a street or highway within the
Village of Buckland in such a manner as to cause excessive or unusual noise.
(Ord. --, passed 3-11-2004) 
Penalty, see § 173.99
§ 173.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of §
173.01 is a minor misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of up to $100.
   (B)   Violation of §
173.02 is a minor misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of up to $150.
(Ord. --, passed  - -    ; Am. Ord. --, passed 3-11-2004)
CHAPTER 174:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
Parks and Recreation
   
174.01   Village park regulations
Nuisances Generally
   
174.10   Definitions
   
174.11   Nuisance declared
   
174.12   Order for removal
   
174.13   Exceptions
   
174.14   Storage of garbage or offal
   
174.15   Keeping down weeds and litter
   
174.16   Notice of violation
   
174.17   Failure to comply; procedure
   
174.18   Premises in disrepair
Weeds
   
174.30   Keeping down weeds and grass; removal of litter
   
174.31   Failure to cut weeds after notice; payment of costs
   
174.32   Trimming hedges abutting public sidewalks
   
174.33   Prohibiting litter with yard waste
Junk on Private Property
   
174.40   Junk on private property
Open Burning
   
174.50   Limitations on open burning
Animals
   
174.60   Control of cats
 
   
174.99   Penalty
PARKS AND RECREATION
§ 174.01  VILLAGE PARK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Alcohol; drugs prohibited. No person shall consume or have in his or
her possession alcoholic beverages or drugs of abuse in the village park.
   (B)   Vehicle regulations. All vehicles shall be operated solely on roadways
and in the parking area and are prohibited in any other area unless written
permission is obtained from Village Council or the Police Department of the
Village of Buckland.
   (C)   Park hours. The village park shall be closed to the public use at 10:
00 p.m. daily and shall remain closed until 7:00 a.m. the following day except
for those activities thereon which start before 10:00 p.m. and for which the
Village Council or the Chief of Police has granted written permission to be
continued beyond 10:00 p.m. After any such activity continued beyond 10:00 p.m.
terminates, the premises involved shall be vacated promptly and thereafter
shall be closed to public use until 7:00 a.m. the following day.
   (D)   Firearms. No person shall discharge a firearm within the park area. No
person shall have or possess or have about his or her person any firearm or bow
and arrows in the park area unless written permission has been obtained from
the Village Council or Chief of Police.
   (E)   Other prohibitions.
      (1)   No person shall cause any destruction to any public property within
the park.
      (2)   No person shall fight or hunt in the park area.
      (3)   No person shall ride bicycles or horses in the designated picnic
area, playground area or ball diamond areas of the park.
      (4)   No person shall ride skateboards at any place or area of the park,
unless that place or area has been specifically designated by the Village
Council.
   (F)   Dogs at large prohibited. No person shall permit a dog to run at large
in the park, it being specifically required that all dogs must be upon a leash.
   (G)   Prohibited conduct. No person shall recklessly cause inconvenience,
annoyance, or alarm to another, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Engaging in fighting, in threatening harm to persons or property,
or in violent or turbulent behavior.
      (2)   Making unreasonable noise or offensively coarse utterance, gesture
or display or community unwarranted and grossly abusive language to any person.
      (3)   Insulting, taunting, or challenging another, under circumstances in
which this conduct is likely to provoke a violent response.
      (4)   Hindering or preventing the movement of persons to, from, within or
upon public or private property, so as to interfere with the rights of others,
and by any act which serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender.
      (5)   Creating a condition which is physically offensive to persons or
which presents a risk of physical harm to persons or property, by any act which
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender.
(Ord. 95, passed 3-7-1991) 
Penalty, see § 174.99
NUISANCES GENERALLY
§ 174.10  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE AND OFFAL. All refuse and waste of animals, fish, fowl, fruit and
vegetable matter, and any other material or materials so designated by the
Auglaize County Board of Health or the State of Ohio, which accumulated in the
use and preparation of food for the table, either commercially or for family
purposes, that has been discarded or abandoned and is no longer of value to the
owner for ordinary purposes of domestic consumption, and shall also include all
refuse arising from dealing in, storing of, or preparation of the aforesaid
substances.
   LITTER. Any garbage, waste peelings of vegetables or fruits, rubbish, ashes,
cans, glass or plastic bottles, wire, paper, cartons, boxes, parts of
automobiles, wagons, furniture, glass, oil of an unsightly or unsanitary
nature, or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
   MOTOR VEHICLES IN AN UNLICENSED OR INOPERATIVE CONDITION. Any style or type
of motor driven vehicle used or useful for the conveyance of persons or
property which is unlicensed or unable to move under its own power due to
defective or missing parts, and has remained in such condition for a period of
not less than 10 consecutive days.
   MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS. Any portion or part of any motor driven vehicle as
detached from the vehicle as a whole.
   MOTOR VEHICLE UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE. Any style or type of motor driven
vehicle used for conveyance of persons or property which is in the dangerous
condition as defective or missing parts or is in such a condition generally as
to be unfit for further use as a conveyance.
   REFUSE. Only such matters as were either in fact noxious or had been refused
and abandoned by its owner as worthless.
   RUBBISH. Wire, wood, chips, shavings, bottles, broken glass, crockery, tin,
cast or wooden ware, boxes, rags, dead weeds, branches from trees or shrubs,
paper circulars, handbills, cardboard, boots, shoes, ashes or any other waste
materials other than garbage or offal.
   SCRAP METAL. Pieces of or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum,
or any alloy thereof whether covered with porcelain; or other materials such as
used household appliances or water heaters, whether intact or in parts which
have served their usefulness in their original form and can no longer be used
or useful for the originally intended purpose.
   USED BUILDING MATERIALS. Any materials such as wood, railroad ties, stone,
brick, cement blocks or any composition or combination thereof used or useful
in the erection of any building or structure which have been used previously
for erection or construction by the same person or other persons.
(Ord. --, passed  - -    )
§ 174.11  NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Except as provided in §
174.13, it shall be unlawful and hereby is declared a nuisance for any person
or entity to store, place or allow to remain any used building materials, motor
vehicles in an unlicensed or inoperative condition, motor vehicles unfit for
further use, motor vehicle parts, scrap metal, refuse or rubbish on the
exterior of any lot, lots, parts of lots or parcels of land within the Village
of Buckland, Ohio.
(Ord. --, passed  - -    ) 
Penalty, see § 174.99
§ 174.12  ORDER FOR REMOVAL.
   (A)   In the event of a violation of any section of this subchapter, the
Mayor shall give notice to the owner, occupant, or person having charge of the
premises upon which the violation occurs to cease such violation. Such notice
shall be in writing and shall be served upon the owner, occupant or person
having charge of the premises either personally by an officer of the Buckland
Police Department at the usual place of residency of such owner, occupant or
person having charge of such premises or by registered or certified mail
addressed to such person’s last place of residence.
   (B)   If the person served with notice as provided in division (A) above
fails to cause the violation to be ceased within 10 days of the date upon which
the notice was issued, that person shall be subject to the penalty provided in
§
174.99 and a separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each and every day
during or on which the violation occurs or continues beyond the 10-day period,
provided, however, that no additional notice of violation is required to be
given for the subsequent days.
(Ord. --, passed  - -    ) 
Penalty, see § 174.99
§ 174.13  EXCEPTIONS.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
174.11, it shall not be unlawful for any person to purchase used building
materials and place or store them on any lot, lots, parts of lots or parcels of
land when such materials are to be used by the purchaser or owner in later
construction on the same lot or any lot owned or controlled by such person;
provided that such materials shall not remain on the lot, lots, parts of lots
or parcel of land for a period of more than 30 days unless the construction or
erection plan for the use of the materials has commenced; and provided further
that such materials are used or consumed in the construction or removed from
the premises when the period of 4 months from the time the materials are first
placed on the lot, lots, parts of lots or parcel of land, has elapsed. It shall
be unlawful for any person or persons to move any materials so stored or placed
to another location within the Village of Buckland, for the purposes of
avoiding the intent of this section, except that any such materials may be
moved to another lot, lots, parts of lots or parcel of land when the same have
been sold to a bona fide purchaser for value for that purchaser’s own use.
(Ord. --, passed  - -    ) 
Penalty, see § 174.99
§ 174.14  STORAGE OF GARBAGE OR OFFAL.
   (A)   No garbage or offal shall be permitted or remain exposed in any
building or on any premises for a period of time longer than shall be
reasonably necessary to remove and deposit the same in a proper waste container
of substantial weatherproof construction with a tight fitting lid.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of any person or persons producing or having
garbage or offal to cause it to be removed from their premises by persons
properly authorized to remove such garbage or offal as permitted under the
regulations of the Auglaize County Board of Health and the Ohio Environmental
Protection Agency.
(Ord. –, passed  - - ) 
Penalty, see § 174.99
§ 174.15  KEEPING DOWN WEEDS AND LITTER.
   (A)   Any person or persons owning or having charge of land within the
Village of Buckland shall keep the property free and clear of all noxious weeds
and rank vegetation.
   (B)   Any person or persons owning or having charge of land within the
Village of Buckland shall keep the property free and clear of all litter on the
lots owned or controlled by them at all times.
(Ord. –, passed  - -    ) 
Penalty, see § 174.99
§ 174.16  NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Upon information that noxious weeds or rank vegetation are growing on
lands within the Village, the Village Council shall cause written notice to be
served on the owner or person having charge of such land that such weeds or
vegetation must be cut and destroyed within 5 days after service of such
notice.
   (B)   Upon a finding by the Village Council that litter has been placed on
lands within the village, and has not been removed, and constitutes a detriment
to public health, the Village Council shall cause a written notice to be served
upon the owner of the land, and if different, upon the lessee, agent or tenant
having charge of the littered land, notifying them that litter is on the land,
and that it must be collected and removed within 15 days after the service of
the notice.
   (C)   The above notices shall be in writing and shall be served upon the
owner, occupant or person having charge of the land either personally, by an
officer of the Buckland Police Department or at the usual place of residency of
the owner, occupant or person having charge of such land by registered or
certified mail, addressed to such person’s last place of residence. If such
person’s address is unknown, it shall be sufficient to publish the notice once
in a newspaper of general circulation within the county.
(Ord. --, passed  - -    )
§ 174.17  FAILURE TO COMPLY; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   If the owner or person having charge of the land fails to comply with
the notice within the appropriate times as provided in the notice as served or
after the publication of the notice in a newspaper of general circulation
within the county, the owner or person shall be subject to the penalty as may
be provided in §
174.99. In addition thereto, the Village Council may cause the noxious weeds
and rank vegetation to be cut and destroyed or the litter removed and all
expenses and labor incurred in the operation, shall, when approved by Council,
be paid out of village funds not otherwise appropriated.
   (B)   The Village Council shall make a written return to the Auglaize County
Auditor of their actions under §§
174.16 and
174.17, inclusive, with a statement of the charges for their services, and
amount paid for labor, the fees of the officers serving the notices and a
proper description of the premises. These amounts, when allowed, shall be
entered upon the tax duplicate and be a lien upon the lands from and after the
date of entry and be collected as other taxes and returned to the village with
the general fund.
(Ord. --, passed  - -    )
§ 174.18  PREMISES IN DISREPAIR.
   (A)   Premises in disrepair.  No person, persons, or firm shall permit any
premises within the Village of Buckland, Ohio to exist in such a state of
disrepair as to be considered to be a nuisance or a hazard to the health or
safety of persons residing in the vicinity of the structure or of any passers
by. Any of the following violations shall be considered to be a nuisance and
the maintenance of the structure in deteriorated condition:
      (1)   Loose bricks displaced from exterior walls or chimneys.
      (2)   Cornices and gutters which are sagging or have fallen from the
structure.
      (3)   Windows containing broken and jagged glass.
      (4)   Open holes upon the exterior of the structure whereby the interior
can be viewed.
      (5)   Exterior stairs, porches, balconies or steps which are in such a
condition as to be unsafe to persons using them or to passers by. The fact that
the person using the stairs, porch, balcony or steps is a trespasser is no
defense for purposes of this subchapter.
      (6)   Foundations and retaining walls caving in.
      (7)   Any detached structures collapsed and falling in.
      (8)   Any structure which is vacant and does not have windows, doors or
other opening properly secured.
   (B)   Repair or removal of buildings and structures constituting public
nuisances.
      (1)   Building or structures constituting public nuisances.BUILDINGS OR
STRUCTURES CONSTITUTING PUBLIC NUISANCES, as used in this section, shall apply
to buildings or other structures which are unsafe, unsecure, structurally
defective, unstable or unsanitary. They include those buildings or structures
which inadequately provide exit facilities, those buildings or structures
unsuitable or improper for the use or occupancy to which they are put, those
buildings or structures which constitute a hazard to health or safety because
of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation or damage by fire or other cause, those
buildings or structures which are obsolescent, abandoned or contain inadequate
or unsafe equipment or are otherwise dangerous to life or property, those
buildings or structures which for any of the foregoing reasons or by reason of
continued vacancy thereby, resulting in lack of reasonable or adequate
maintenance of structure or grounds, are causing deterioration and a blighting
influence on nearby properties and thereby depreciating the enjoyment and use
of property in the immediate vicinity to such an extent that it is harmful to
the community in which such structure is situated.
      (2)   Inspection; written report.  Upon receipt of information that a
building or other structure constitutes a public nuisance as such is defined
under any part of division (B)(1) of this section, the Police Chief, Fire
Chief, Mayor, Zoning Inspector or Village Engineer shall cause to be made an
inspection thereof and for that purpose each of the above named persons or
their duly appointed deputies shall have the powers hereinafter conferred. If,
after inspection, it is found that said building constitutes a public nuisance
as in any part of division (B)(1) of this section, the inspector shall cause a
written notice thereof to be as hereinafter provided. A copy of said written
report shall be filed with the Clerk of the Village Council and it shall become
a matter of public record and reported by the Clerk to the Village Council at
the next general meeting thereof. If the inspector determines the building or
structure needs to be removed, in addition to the filing of the report with the
Clerk and causing written notice as hereinafter provided, the inspector shall
send a written copy of his or her report and written recommendation for removal
to the other officers designated as inspectors above, including the Police
Chief, Fire Chief and Mayor. Each of the remaining inspectors shall make
immediate inspection of the building or structure, and if each concur, the
report provided to the Clerk of Council shall declare the building or structure
a public nuisance which should be removed, then the Clerk shall give notice as
provided for in division (B)(3) of this section.
      (3)   Notice ordering abatement; content of notice.
         (a)   The Village Clerk shall cause notice of the nuisance to be
served upon the owner or owners of the property. As used in this section, OWNER
or OWNERS shall be the record owner of the premises upon which the building or
structures is located. They shall include either an owner in fee or a lessor
estate. A mortgage or vendee in possession, assignee of rents, receiver,
executor, administrator trustee, lessee or other person in control of the
building or their duly authorized agent may also be deemed the OWNER or OWNERS
as references herein. Any such person as identified above shall be bound to
comply with the provisions of this section. The notice shall contain the
addresses and descriptions of the buildings and structures, a description as to
the character of the building that deems it to be a public nuisance, an order
requiring the character upon which the public nuisance is based to be corrected
pursuant to specifications provided within the notice, the date upon which the
corrections are to be made, and the notification procedure the owner or owners
are to follow upon completion of the corrections and the actions and/or
penalties which may ensue, should the owner or owners not comply with the
actions demanded in the notice. Each owner shall be informed of his or her
right to appeal the order to the Village Board of Zoning and Building Appeals.
         (b)   The date upon which the notice requires the repair or removal of
the building should be reasonable considering both the complexity of the
activity required and the health and safety risk the nuisance condition
presents.
         (c)   1.   After the issuance of the notice referenced in division (B)
(3)(a), any two or more inspectors as described in division (B)(2) shall have
the right to make entry upon the premises to inspect the interior of the
building for the purpose of determining the extend of the unsafe conditions
observed as a result of the external inspection described in division (B)(2) or
to determine if there exits any other unsafe conditions.
            2.   Prior to the inspection of the interior of the structure the
inspector(s) shall give notice to the owner or owners of both the date and time
of the inspection.
         (d)   The village, as well as its employees or agents, including
inspectors, shall be immune from any liability whatsoever should damage be
caused to the structure in order to gain entry to the interior of the structure
pursuant to this section.
         (e)   It shall be a violation of law for the owner or owners of any
property upon whom notice is sent to fail to take those measures as instructed
in the notice herein described within the time period provided for in the
notice.
      (4)   Ordering building vacated; posting of notice; unlawful entry.
         (a)   When the Police Chief, Mayor and Fire Chief are of the opinion
that a building or structure is in such an unsafe or unsanitary condition so
that life is endangered thereby they may order and require that the occupants
thereof vacate said building or structure immediately upon notice. They shall
cause to be published at such entrances to said building or structure the
following notice:
“This building is unfit for occupancy and its use has been prohibited
forthwith.”
         (b)   Such notice shall remain posted until the required repairs are
made or until the building or structure is razed. It shall be unlawful for any
person other than an employee or designee of the village, properly authorized
to do so to remove or cause to be removed said notice without written
permission of the Mayor, Police Chief or Fire Chief. Violation of this portion
of the section shall be punishable by a fine of up to $150. Each removal of
such notice shall be considered a separate violation of this section. It shall
be unlawful for any person other than those authorized by law or by the Mayor,
Police Chief or Fire Chief to do so to enter a building or structure which has
been posted with the above described notice. A violation of this division of
the section is punishable by a fine of up to $150. Each lawful entry by a
person as described above shall be considered a separate violation.
      (5)   Repair or removal of building at expense of owner; right of entry;
recovery of abatement costs.
         (a)   In case of an order for repair or removal of a building or
structure which is not complied with within the specified time frame as
described in division (B)(3)(a), the Mayor and a two- thirds majority of the
Village Council Members whose confirmation is affirmed by a Resolution of
Council passed at a regularly scheduled meeting may cause said building or
structure to be removed at the expense of said owner or owners. Prior to the
village taking such action, the village shall give at least ten days' written
notice by certified mail to the owner or owners of said property. The Police
Chief, Fire Chief and/or Mayor, or their duly authorized agent shall be
authorized at any time thereafter to enter upon said premise and the owner
shall permit him or her entry to abate the nuisance by demolition and removal
of the structure or by taking any such other action as may be required.
         (b)   In abating such nuisance, the village may go to whatever extent
necessary to complete the abatement of the same and the cost of the abatement
action shall be recovered from the owner in the following manner:
            1.   The owner or owners shall be billed directly by certified mail
for the cost of the abatement. The bill for the costs of the abatement shall be
paid within 60 days after receipt of the bill.
            2.   If costs are not so recovered then the village shall cause the
cost of the abatement to be levied as an assessment and recovered in accordance
with R.C. § 715.261.
      (6)   Section enlargement of authority. This section shall not be deemed
to be a limitation or restriction on the authority of any department, division,
official or employee of the village, but shall be deemed to be an enlargement
of any authority existing by virtue of the statutes of the state, or any
ordinance heretofore enacted by Council.
      (7)   (a)   Failure to comply with orders.  In addition to all other
remedies, conditions or penalties that may be available to the village, any
person failing to abide an order of the village to repair or remove an unsafe
building found to be a public nuisance may be issued a citation by the village
and fined up to $150. Each failure to abide by an order issued under this
section shall be deemed a separate violation.
(Ord. 1581, passed 8-9-1999).
         (b)   Each day during which the owner or owners fail to comply with
orders issued herein may be considered as a separate violation punishable as
herein described.
(Ord. --, passed  - -  ; Am. Ord. 249.10, passed 5-11-10) 
Penalty, see § 174.99
WEEDS
§ 174.30  KEEPING DOWN WEEDS AND GRASS; REMOVAL OF LITTER.
   (A)   Definitions.  For the purposes of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes any garbage, waste, peelings of vegetables or fruits,
rubbish, ashes, cans, bottles, wire, paper, cartons, boxes, parts of
automobiles, wagons, furniture, glass, oil of an unsightly or unsanitary
nature, or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
      NOXIOUS OR HARMFUL WEEDS AND VINES. Includes rag weeds, goldenrod,
burdock, yellow dock, thistles, wild carrot, and any weed or vegetation which
exhales offensive or noxious odors or from which there is carried by the wind
any injurious offensive or annoying pollen dust, down seed or particles, or
which may conceal filthy deposits or may contain poisonous elements causing
rashes or allergic reactions to the general population.
   (B)   Cutting weeds and grass and removal of litter required. No owner or
occupant of any land or parcel of land located within the boundaries of the
Village of Buckland shall fail to keep the grass growing thereon cut to a
height not in excess of 8 inches and to periodically cut and destroy all
noxious and harmful weeds and vines growing upon the lot or parcel of land.
This division (B) shall not apply to growing crops or cultivated plants. No
owner or occupant of any land or parcel of land located within the boundaries
of the Village of Buckland shall fail to remove litter from the land or parcel.
   (C)   For the purpose of determining the frequency of cutting and destroying
noxious or harmful weeds and vines as required herein, any such weed or vine
growing upon any lot or parcel of land and extending to a height of 8 inches
shall be deemed noxious and harmful weeds and vines as described in this
section.
(Ord. 221-01, passed 11-8-2001) 
Penalty, see § 174.99
§ 174.31  FAILURE TO CUT WEEDS AFTER NOTICE; PAYMENT OF COSTS.
   (A)     Notice shall be given to an owner or occupant of a lot or parcel of
land located within the Village of Buckland by the Village Mayor, or Chief of
Police, or their designate to immediately cut the grass or cut noxious or
harmful weeds and vines growing on the subject premises, or remove litter from
the premises. This notice shall be in writing, delivered personally or by
certified mail return receipt requests. Should the address of the record owner
be unknown and the premises unoccupied, it shall be sufficient to publish the
notice once in a newspaper of general circulation within Auglaize County, Ohio.
The owner or occupant shall cut the noxious or harmful weeds and vines within 5
days of receipt of notice or of publication, whichever is applicable.
   (B)   Should the property owner or occupant fail to cut the grass or cut
such noxious or harmful weeds or vines or remove the litter within the 5-day
period the owner or occupant shall be issued a criminal citation for violating
the requisites of this subchapter.
   (C)   Should any owner or occupant of a parcel or lot be served with more
than 1 notice to cut noxious or harmful weeds or vines in any 180-day period,
each notice beyond the first shall be deemed a violation of this subchapter
subjecting the owner or occupant to a criminal citation regardless of their
subsequent compliance with this section.
   (D)   In the event the owner or occupant of a lot or parcel does not cut
grass or cut the noxious or harmful weeds and vines, or remove the litter, the
Village Mayor or his or her designate may cause the grass or noxious or harmful
weeds and vines to be cut and removed, or litter to be removed, and charge the
expense thereof to the owner or occupant of the subject lot or parcel. Should
the village be unpaid by the owner or occupant, the village may certify the
unpaid amount to the County Auditor and the same shall act as a lien upon the
subject lot or parcel to be collected as a special assessment and/or may
civilly collect the unpaid bill from the owner or occupant in a court of law.
Should it be necessary to proceed with a special assessment or a civil action
an additional fee of $50 will be assessed for the purpose of defraying the cost
of the certification or litigation.
(Ord. 221-01, passed 11-8-2001) 
Penalty, see § 174.99
§ 174.32  TRIMMING HEDGES ABUTTING PUBLIC SIDEWALKS.
   The owner or occupant of any lot or parcel of land bounding or abutting any
public sidewalk or roadway adjacent to which any hedge is planted or growing
shall keep the hedge trimmed in such a manner so as not to interfere with the
clear vision of any operator of any vehicle traversing the roadway and will in
no manner discommode, interfere with or inconvenience any person traveling on
the sidewalk or walkway. Any person in violation of this section shall be
subject to the same notice procedures and penalties as set forth in §
174.31.
(Ord. 221-01, passed 11-8-2001) 
Penalty, see § 174.99
§ 174.33  PROHIBITING LITTER WITH YARD WASTE.
   No person shall litter a street or alley by the throwing thereon of grass,
grass clippings, weeds or other vegetation.
(Ord. 221-01, passed 11-8-2001) 
Penalty, see § 174.99
JUNK ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
§ 174.40  JUNK ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Definition.  For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      JUNK. Old or scrap copper, brass, trash, waste, batteries, paper,
rubbish, iron, steel, and other old or scrap ferrous or nonferrous materials,
and any old items containing the same. JUNK also includes car parts, building
materials, stoves, refrigerators, furniture, hot water heaters and any similar
items.
      JUNK YARD. Premises that are maintained or operated for the purpose of
storing, keeping, buying, or selling junk.
   (B)   (1)   R.C. § 715.44 grants to municipal corporations the power to
abate any nuisance and to prosecute any person who creates, continues,
contributes to, or suffers the nuisance to exist.
      (2)   A junk yard is declared a nuisance.
      (3)   No person shall permit any lot, yard or land within the Village of
Buckland to become or continue to be a junk yard.
      (4)   Junk yards licensed under R.C. §§ 4737.05 et seq. are excepted from
this section.
(Ord. 224-03, passed 5-8-2003) 
Penalty, see § 174.99
OPEN BURNING
§ 174.50  LIMITATIONS ON OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   The Ohio Revised Code and Administrative Code permit open burning
under certain limited circumstances.
   (B)   When open burning is permitted under the Ohio Revised Code and
Administrative Code, it shall be unlawful to burn in violation of any of the
following standards:
      (1)   Only clean stackable firewood maybe burned.
      (2)   All open burning must occur within a fire ring of brick or block
construction or other non-combustible materials.
      (3)   No fire ring shall be more than 3 feet in inside diameter and must
be not less than 10 inches in height.
      (4)   No fire may be built permitting the flame to extend more than 3
feet upward from its base.
      (5)   No burning shall occur within 15 feet of a property line.
      (6)    All fires must be attended by an adult at all times.
      (7)   No burning shall occur if the Mayor has declared a fire alert or
clean air alert.
   (C)   No person shall violate the limitations of division (B) and no
property owner shall permit others to burn on his or her property in violation
of the limitations of division (B).
(Ord. --, passed 5-11-2006) 
Penalty, see § 174.99
ANIMALS
§ 174.60  CONTROL OF CATS.
   (A)   It has been determined that it is a nuisance in the village to allow
cats to run at large and enter upon real property and dwellings within said
village belonging or titled to persons other than the owner or keeper of the
cat.
   (B)   No person, being the owner or having charge of a domestic cat or cats,
shall permit such cat or cats to run at large upon the premises of other
persons or upon public premises within the village.
   (C)   All persons who own a cat, keep a cat as a domestic pet, or permit a
cat to reside at their residence, shall obtain and place upon the cat an
identifying metallic or plastic tag or label containing the name, address and
phone number of the owner or keeper of the particular cat.
   (D)   Law Enforcement Officials of the village shall have the right to seize
any cat found in the village that does not have an identifying tag to the
animal.
   (E)   No person shall trap a cat except under this section.
      (1)   Landowners and tenants of premises in the village may apply to the
village for permission to trap cats on their property where such animals have
become a nuisance by trespassing on their property. The village is authorized
to supply live traps for such purposes.
      (2)   No person shall attempt to trap a cat except through use of a trap
provided by or approved by the village. Upon capturing a cat in a live trap,
and such cat is identified with a tag or other device as set forth above, or if
the cat can be otherwise identified, then the person trapping said cat shall
deliver such cat to the village as instructed.
      (3)   All cats seized under division (C) or (D) of this section shall be
held by the village at a central location for a period of not less than 72
hours.
      (4)   Upon a cat being delivered to or seized by the village that has a
registration tag or device upon the animal, the village shall attempt
reasonable notification of the identified owner, who shall be allowed to
retrieve the cat under the provisions of this division (E).
      (5)   Upon a cat being delivered to or seized by the village that does
not have a registration tag or device as established by the village, the
village shall hold for a period of 72 hours and within that period turn the cat
over to any person contacting the village claiming ownership of the animal
subject to the provisions of division (E) of this section.
   (F)   The village may collect a fee up to $50 from any person retrieving a
cat that was delivered to the village or seized by the village and held under
division (D) of this section.
   (G)   After holding any cat for a period of 72 hours, the village shall have
the right to deliver the animal to the Auglaize County Animal Shelter, or other
such institution for the collection of stray animals.
   (H)   The Council of the Village may issue any other appropriate regulations
for the control of cats within the municipal limits.
   (I)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 248.10, passed 5-11-10)
§ 174.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Whoever violates §
174.01 is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and upon conviction or a plea of guilty
shall be fined not more than $100.
      (2)   In the event that the Code of Ordinances of the Village of Buckland
provides for punishment for any act which is set forth herein, and for which
the penalty is greater than the penalty set forth herein, then the most severe
penalty shall take precedence over the minor misdemeanor penalty set forth
herein and the violator shall be charged with violation of the relevant section
of the General Code of the Village of Buckland, Ohio.
   (B)   Whoever shall violate or fail to comply with any of the provisions
contained in §§
174.10 through
174.18 shall be fined not more than $50. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during or on which the violation occurs or continues at
a fine of $100.
   (C)   Whoever violates §§
174.30 through
174.33 shall be fined not more than $100. For a second offense within 1 year,
the penalty shall be a fine of up to $250. 
   (D)   Whoever violates §
174.40 is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined up to $100 for each
offense.  Each 7-day period that a junk yard is continued is a separate
violation of that section and may be prosecuted as such.
   (E)   Whoever violates §
174.50(C) is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and is subject to a fine of not more
than $150. For a second offense within 1 year, the penalty shall be a fine of
$250.
(Ord. 95, passed 3-17-1991; Am. Ord. --, passed  - -    ; Am. Ord. 221-01,
passed 11-8-2001; Am. Ord. 224-03, passed 5-8-2003; Am. Ord. --, passed 5-11-
2006)
CHAPTER 175:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Editor’s note:  At present there are no ordinances for this chapter.  This
chapter is reserved for future legislation.  For Business Regulations, see Ohio
Basic Code Title XI.
CHAPTER 176:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
176.01   Curfew for minors
   
176.02   Concealed weapons
   
176.99   Penalty
§ 176.01  CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any child or children, under the age of 18
years, to be on the public streets or in public places within the Village of
Buckland after 10:00 p.m. unless the child or children is accompanied by 1 of
his or her parents or some other adult duly authorized by 1 of the parents of
the child.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) shall not apply to children attending
public athletic, social, religious or school events until 15 minutes after the
event is over.
Penalty, see § 176.99
§ 176.02  CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to R.C. § 2923.126(B)(9), no person, either who has, or who
has not obtained a license to carry a concealed handgun that is issued under
R.C. § 2923.125 shall carry a concealed handgun into any building owned by or
leased to the Village of Buckland.
   (B)   Pursuant to R.C. § 2923.126(C)(3), no person, either who has, or who
has not obtained a license to carry a concealed handgun that is issued under
R.C. § 2923.125 shall carry a firearm or a concealed firearm on or onto any
land or premises owned by or controlled by the Village of Buckland where a sign
has been posted in a conspicuous location on that land or on those premises
prohibiting persons from carrying firearms or concealed firearms on or onto
that land or those premises.
   (C)   HANDGUN and FIREARM shall have the same meaning as is contained in the
Ohio Revised Code.
   (D)   Divisions (A) and (B) of this section do not apply to a law
enforcement officer who is then qualified to carry a firearm by meeting
training requirements applicable to police officers.
(Ord. 228-04, passed 4-8-2004)
§ 176.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any child violating §
176.01 is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be cited to appear before the
Auglaize County Juvenile Court.
   (B)   Whoever violates §
176.02 is guilty of criminal trespass and shall be fined up to $250 and subject
to up to 30 days in jail.
(Ord. 228-04, passed 4-8-2004)
CHAPTER 177:  LAND USAGE
Editor’s note:  At present there are no ordinances for this chapter.  This
chapter is reserved for future legislation.  For Land Usage, see Ohio Basic
Code Title XV.
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Ohio Revised Code
References to Village Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OHIO REVISED CODE
R.C. Section Title XVII Section
R.C. Section    Title XVII Section
715.261         174.18
715.44          174.40
733.262         171.01
2923.125        176.01
2923.126(B)(9)  176.01
2923.126(C)(3)  176.01
4737.05 et seq. 174.40
                
 
REFERENCES TO VILLAGE ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Title XVII Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Title XVII Section
--       --          173.01,
                     173.99
95       3-7-1991    174.01,
                     174.99
                     174.10 -
--       --          174.18,
                     174.99
1581     8-9-1999    174.18
                     174.30 -
221-01   11-8-2001   174.33,
                     174.99
224-03   5-8-2003    174.40
--       3-11-2004   173.02,
                     173.99
228-04   4-8-2004    176.02,
                     176.99
--       5-11-2006   174.50,
                     174.99
246.09   4-9-2009    172.01
247.10   1-12-2010   171.01
248.10   5-11-2010   174.60
249.10   5-11-2010   174.18
                    
 
